To clarify, what do you mean that we know their canoes were oceangoing and fast and efficient 3000 years ago, but don’t have any evidence, how do we know that then? Where do we get this idea of the canoe then? I was always really confused where we get all these “recreations” of Polynesian canoes if we don’t have any archeological examples or depictions.
So we can make educated guesses as to the similar structure and building methods and navigation methods of canoe building based of the surviving vessels and knowledge base from more isolated islands less affected by European colonization combined with descriptions from Europeans and also assuming the ancient ancestors of your people used similar craft?
The only witnesses we had were European navigators and their journals describing those canoes (some Navigators were admiring how efficient the canoes were compared to the European ships like James Cook) we have also the contribution of some Indigenous who travelled with Europeans like Tupaia and Omai. Other than that it's just theories and speculations helped by scientific research (Archaeology/Anthropology/History...).
Sorry I should've been more specific. Regarding material evidences I was referring to the canoe the Austronesians used to sail which is surely almost the same as pre-european canoes that Polynesians used to colonized the triangle. Some isolated tribes in Micronesia/Indonesia kept their seafaring culture vivid so we can have a clue about how it was back then. Also we have a lot of drawings and descriptions made by the Europeans although it was mainly about Polynesian canoe (which we have solid evidence that they are made for long travels and many more).
Some aspects of our culture and way of life was saved tho (Thanks to some Europeans Ironically) and some disapeared. Also since our ancestors colonized the entire pacific ocean we could draw bridges to what a more ancient culture (Austronesians) was like. In the 70's a master seafarer from Satawal (Carolines islands) who knew how to navigate using the stars and the environment was found, his name was Mau Piailug and tanks to him we were able to re-learn the traditional way to navigate.