Early forms of this, which date at least to the 1950s, include "Jinx! you owe me a soda" and what seems to be a later, "pinch, poke, you owe me a Coke" (exploiting a rhyme with poke and coke). In this case, the winner could punch the loser. A diffusion from this rhyme to replace "soda" may be the origin of the word "Coke" in the phrase beginning with "Jinx".
I suspect it's this inherent variability that brings us to the variant you're familiar with, "Jinx You owe me a coke". In many parts of the United States, it's "Jinx You owe me a soda". The insertion of the word "coke" may be because coke is the generic name for a soft drink in the . Most famous soda brands were invented in the South, with Coca-Cola being among the oldest from 1886. More importantly, Coca-Cola was the first mass produced soda or soft drink. Due to a bungled contract negotiation, a bottle of Coca-Cola cost only 5 cents until 1959; this was part of what it enabled it to become so ubiquitous in American culture. "Coke" was being used as a generic term for soft drinks by the early 20th century, and although the Coca-Cola company initially resisted this, by the 1940s the company accepted it and even started using "coke" as a generic term for soda themselves. It's essentially the "Kleenex" effect, where the most popular brand becomes accepted as a generic. Outside the South, "pop" and "soda" predominate, but "coke" remains in a solid third place.
Oremland, Jerome D., "The Jinx Game: A Ritualized Expression of Separation-Individuation", The Psychoanalytic Study of the Child 28:1 (1973) \\].
According to the OED, the first documented use of jinxing as a children's game is in 1973. An article called "The Jinx Game: A Ritualized Expression of Separation-Individuation" by Jerome D. Oremland was published that year in The Psychoanalytic Study of the Child. Oremland describes the jinx game as "a sophisticated, stereotyped ritual". The version of the game he analyzes uses only the cry of "Jinx!" without any reference to soda or another reward. That the game may be much older is suggested by its equivalents in other linguistic environments: "Though the Game is played in a remarkably identical manner in various geographical areas, the word used to induce the spell varies widely, e.g., Israeli children shout, Ain, the Arabic word for ghost or evil eye". There is also a French variant called ), although it's unclear whether this is derivative of the English "jinx".
Same; "jinx", then if it was a tie, "personal jinx" until someone ran out of breath or mispronounced it. There was a brief thing about touching green? But it didn't really catch on. It wasn't until my kids were making friends outside the home (2005ish) that I heard the Coke variant.
As a 40 year old American, I also hadn't heard about the soda version until this post. In my school yard the jinx was only if two people said the same thing at the same time. One of them could call jinx on the other. Maybe the versions are regional even in the US?