Was the tooth mobile before? Did it have periodontal (gum) disease that allowed it to be removed, or did the crown separate from the roots? Were you given a prognosis before the root canal?
What outcome are you hoping for? If I were the dentist, I might be open to paying for an implant or doing a bridge or refunding the crown in exchange for waiving the right to sue for malpractice . Keep in mind that this dentist was trying to help you with a disease that he did not cause.
So hopefully this will help you understand why nobody here is going to be able to tell you whether your dentist did or did not breach the standard of care.
Because your assumption is not going to be sufficient to win a malpractice claim. You need to show that the dentist failed to provide the level of skill and care that a competent dentist would provide in a similar circumstance. In most cases, this requires offering convincing expert testimony from other dentists regarding the standard of care and based on their review of all the facts, that you dentist breached that standard.
Because people make mistakes, and i'm not saying this guy isn't a bad dentist, but malpractice usually requires a strong case of evidence supporting negligence. As the plaintiff, the burden of proof would be on you to prove with a preponderance of evidence that the dentist was being negligent and disregarded standard practice. Again, not saying what he did was OK and that you didn't get screwed. But consider what you're signing up for if you decide to sue instead of working it out with the practice and their customer service, billing, etc.
I would still talk to a lawyer if that's the route you think you want to go, but keep in mind that malpractice is one of the hardest civil cases to prove and win. The tooth extraction sounds like an accident, which is not malpractice by itself.. Maybe try to work out a discounted repair or some other deal with the practice before you pay a ton of money to break out the big guns in court.