Ever since the year 2000 deaths in custody for all Australians and for Indigenous Australians more-so, have plummeted. So in regards to police brutality I don't think you can say that nothing has changed. However there are definitely some serious systemic problems that plague Indigenous Australians. It's a shame we can't get a protest going for the actual issues that plague Indigenous Australians simply because that is not the narrative being pushed by the American media.
Indigenous Australians believe this to be an actual issue that is still affecting their communities - they are running the recent protests, and have protested the issue for decades.
Thus, you can understand why the current American BLM media coverage has deeply affected Indigenous (and many non-Indigenous) Australians concerned about unregulated police violence and the role it plays in Australian society.
Indigenous Australians have been adopting African American cultural and political movements and adapting them to their own circumstance since at least the 1960s, and the American BLM movement resonates strongly with Indigenous experiences with historical and contemporary police brutality and deaths in custody. Although many Australians are quick to label this a cultural import that has no relevance here, police violence against Indigenous Australians was fundamental to the settlement of Australia and is closely connected to other ongoing concerns regarding the colonial foundation of Australia, like land rights and sovereignty (in fact, all three were mentioned together in the 2017 Uluru Statement from the Heart, a document written by representatives of Indigenous Australia that details their beliefs, goals and solutions to systemic problems).
Bringing us back to the 2017 Uluru Statement, the representatives of Aboriginal Australia who wrote this document identified that a lack of Indigenous political and decision making power (ergo sovereignty), the lack of wealth to fund initiatives and mainstream Australia's lack of trust and historical awareness are the key factors holding their communities back. Treaties could guarantee funding for health programs and businesses, and formalise Indigenous leadership that enables these initiatives to be set up. Land rights, including compensation for land lost to government or industry, are another means of achieving this funding. In Western Australia, recent developments with the Nyungar native title claim have led to a settlement with the state government that mandates small investments in Nyungar corporations and small concessions in community decision making - this is a glimpse of what a treaty might accomplish.Yet the majority of Australians and our conservative government believe that Indigenous complaints and requests are purely political and are attempts at winning wealth and power without effort. The general belief is that Indigenous leadership is inherently corrupt and inept.