/u/EnclavedMicrostate provided an excellent write up on identity development up to roughly the fall of the Qing. I'll add a bit more about the development of identity during the Republican and how minority groups were separated (or included) along the Han during the CCP period.
But things took a turn again in the 1960s. Following a more Soviet-influenced approach to minorities in a nation, the CCP began developing ideas of "different races united under common tongue, common culture and common economic base." I.e., Cantonese children will now learn Mandarin in school rather than Cantonese and so on. This has led to the rapid dismantling of many minority groups within China, and many languages (or dialects) slowly die in China. But still, being a recognized minority has its benefits in Mao and modern China. They are often given special treatment on moral, religious, cultural and other issues that the government does not extend to the Han. Despite this, critics argue that this "enables selective social control and formal structures for political inclusion or cooptation of groups which otherwise might alienate themselves from the system." To this day the status and survival of many minority groups in China is tenuous at best.
There is a lot of sense of nationalism and unity in these quotes. It shows that the new class of intellectuals in China were exploring, searching for a reason as to why China had fallen so low. Ultimately these ideas are the ones that greatly influence modern (contemporary) China's ideologies on race and nationhood.
The emergence of this concept is a bit murky, and there has been disagreement over when exactly conceptions of ethnicity became common across China. The crucial thing, though, is that there's a relative consensus that the first people to broadly accept the nootion of 'essentialist' ethnic identities were not the majority Han Chinese, but rather the Manchus. Manchu conceptions of ethnicity are again a source of controversy: those influenced by Mark C. Elliott's study of the provincial Banners err on the side of the Manchus having had a concept of ethnicity from at least the early 17th century, which was made a protected identity following the Banner reforms of the Qianlong reign, while those operating under the framework suggested by Pamela Crossley's study of imperial ideology prefer to view ethnicity as the product of the Qianlong Emperor's promotion of a new, essentialist mode of emperorship. Edward J.M. Rhoads, in his study of the development of Manchu and (to a lesser extent) Han identities in the period between the end of the Taiping War and the Northern Expedition, notes that even then, Manchu identity was still a shifting concept until the post-imperial governments equivocated it with Banner enrolment. And that's just for Manchu identity! While Han identity did change alongside Manchu identity, the move towards genuinely accepting a more 'essentialist' view of that identity began very much in the 19th century.
At the same time, though, such essentialism was always a minority position, and under the Qing that sort of belief in cultural transformation remained standard. The Yongzheng Emperor's 1729 Discourse on Righteousness to Dispel Confusion (大義覺迷錄 Dayi juemi lu), aimed at a Han Chinese audience sceptical of Qing acculturation, stressed that by virtue of coming to rule China, the Qing had acculturated to its ways (in the original text, 'Manchu' appears only twice, referring both times to the pre-conquest state). However, just six years later, the Qianlong Emperor proscribed the text and began asserting hard boundaries between the imperial constituencies, as illustrated above.