I'd like to suggest the OP may wish to view Egypt from space on satellite photography to grasp just how big the Nile and the green area it provides is and quite how stark the divide is between the desert and floodplains, it may assist in visualising how the river can provide for a civilization.
Throughout this formative period of the civilization, the Egyptian landscape looked much as it does today: the thin, green, agriculturally productive strip of the Nile Valley, giving way abruptly to the desert. There was probably a bit more rainfall to feed seasonal tributaries of the Nile, but these typically flowed quickly and briefly before drying out again (they exist today as wadis - dry riverbeds - still susceptible to flash flooding).
Historians from Herodotus to Barry Kemp (drawing on his "Ancient Egypt: Anatomy of a Civilization" here) have noted the importance of the Nile. While Ice Age/paleolithic Egypt did have more of a savannah-like climate (per Steven Mithen's "After the Ice: A Global Human History, 20,000-5000 BC"), the shifting of monsoon patterns up to 5000 BCE caused much of the Sahara to dry out, increased rainfall in the Ethiopian highlands, and the transformation of the Nile from a series of interconnected marshlands into an annually flooded river. The combination of the drying landscape and the emergence of annually rejuvenated floodplains funneled the human population out of the growing deseets and into the fertile landscape along the riverbank. The people who came to live along the Nile found themselves in an enviable position: they had access to rich farmland that was re-fertilized by annual floods, and they were largely sheltered from raids and invasions by the natural protection afforded by the expanded deserts that enclosed the valley. This is reflected in the Semitic names for Egypt (Ugaritic: Mṣrm ; Hebrew: Mitzráyim ; Arabic: Miṣr/Maṣr), all of which mean "The Fortress(es)". Note that all this is before what we'd recognize as Egyptian civilization emerges.
Once you start looking for it, dualism is everywhere in Ancient Egypt. It's not really all that obvious at first glance, and especially when you're just looking at stuff like "hey, neat buildings". The symbolism is so rich with Ancient Egypt, it's truly incredible.