I just realised looking at this that I've never seen old Spanish lol... It's so interesting to look at because it's so familiar yet different.
Do you potentially have any resources that explain how the Spanish language has changed, particularly orthographically. I see stuff like "Henero and Hebrero" for January and February presumably as well as the cedilla in March; why was stuff like the cedilla dropped and were January and February both pronounced with the same starting sound back then and later split to what we have today, or was it just an imperfect orthographical representation? Also, what's with the odd "s" symbol?
As for the odd "s", I think you mean the "high s". It was an aesthetic choice from the printers, particularly favoured when a double s was required, or to make a more harmonious looking word when some pairs of letters are present together (st, sl, si, most notably).
Females could apply, though it was rare. There are some famous examples in Spain in the XVI-XVII centuries, like Ana de Carleval, who studied in Granada, where she fell in love with her Latin professor Juan Latino, the first black university professor in History. Juan Latino was very respected and well connected, that's why it was not quite a scandal, even though Juan had been born a slave in the household of the Duke of Sessa. Francisca de Nebrija, daughter of Antonio de Nebrija the Grammarian, was a professor at Alcalá de Henares in the early XVI century, and Luisa de Medrano taught in Salamanca around the same time. The first woman to obtain a doctoral degree was Juliana Morell, of a respected Catalan family, who obtained her doctorate in the early XVII century at the University of Perpignan.
What degrees would you be interested in? I happen to have on hand a digitisation of the Statutes of the University of Salamanca, edition of 1584, which matches rather well your time frame. They contain the academic curricula for all the degrees, along with the recommended and mandatory books (you would be surprised to know that Copernicus was mandatory in Salamanca as early as 1584, optative since 1561), rules, procedures. I have more complemantary info on hand from other universities such as Valladolid, how much did professors make, etc.