Even my normally left leaning family member has been touting the gas price and inflation stuff as a strike against the left. When I remind him that Biden opened up 19 new oil drilling spots, and EVERY oil company said no thanks because the artificial scarcity is allowing them to overcharge by magnitudes, he went silent for a second.
Then he brought up that it's STILL Bidens fault because gas is expensive because of inflation. when i pointed out the price percent increase is far far higher than the 11% inflation and that means they're charging more than just the inflation increase, he again went silent and went onto a new subject after a moment...
Instead we injected something like almost 20% extra money into the economy during the pandemic (and that's actions from both Trump and Biden's terms in office), and so no wonder inflation is 8-9%. It was downright predictable if you look at previous patterns of how money injection affects inflation.
Inflation is determined by the supply of money and the supply of money is determined by monetary policy. Workers, wages, corporations and profits don't create inflation. Inflation is caused by monetary policy and the supply of currency, none of which workers or corporations determine. Blaming corporate profits or "greedflation" is just as idiotic and unsubstantiated as trying to blame it on higher wages or immigrants etc.
Now huge companies are somehow reporting record profits, even though wages haven't changed and while their prices have - drastically, and they're blaming federal money injections? Hanke has a point, but it's not the only thing driving inflation and probably not even the main thing.
That's literally not how inflation works. For one thing, you're completely ignoring/undermining the effect that the slowdown of global supply chains had on the COVID economy, secondly you're ignore that central did objectively print significantly more money in response to COVID. T If more money was not printed, the money supply would have contracted during the pandemic which would have left to a depression.