That seems incorrect, usually when a law or regulation is in place a contract cannot supersede it. Ie in my area landlords aren't allowed to charge a late fee of more than a certain amount and not until after a certain time, if you sign a contract saying an earlier date and/or over that amount it is in conflict with the law/regulation and not enforceable regardless of the contract.
While your lease agreement states that you have to pay each month’s rent by the 3rd, I included this part of the statute to show that the default terms outlined in this part of the law is a five day grace period before rent is considered late. I did some more digging though, and I found that landlords are required to provide this five day grace period before beginning the eviction process, but I cannot guarantee that it extends to late fees as well. That being said:
I am not a lawyer, but a quick google search turns up the Virginia Residential Landlord and Tenant Act, which includes the following relevant statutes under Terms and conditions of rental agreement; payment of rent; copy of rental agreement for tenant (link included for full contents and source; I’m also providing a simplified summary of some of the wordier statutes in parentheses below).
4. Rent payments shall be due on the first day of each month during the tenancy and shall be considered late if not paid by the fifth of the month;.
- your landlord cannot charge you a late fee of any amount if it is not outlined in your lease agreement.
E. A landlord shall not charge a tenant for late payment of rent unless such charge is provided for in the written rental agreement. No such late charge shall exceed the lesser of 10 percent of the periodic rent or 10 percent of the remaining balance due and owed by the tenant.
Also, double check your lease agreement with the landlord/company and see what their policy is exactly on late payments; do they specify that you will be held liable if the payment is not received by the 3rd of the month? If not, then mention that there is nothing in the lease agreement specifying that you are liable for any transfer-related delays, and that this is the first time such delay has occurred, despite the rent money being withdrawn from your account on the 1st as usual.
Explain to your landlord before you accept the late fee is due to a fault on your end, they are going to have to show you a bank statement on their end showing the date the payment was received and they will need a letter from their bank that states that any delay in funds is due to the originating institution.
Sometimes there can be transfer delays if the transaction is initiated on a Friday, and the payment may not be received until the following Monday - so if the 1st of the month were to fall on a Friday, there is a possibility that the payment would not be in the landlord’s account until Monday, the 4th. I checked though, and the 1st was a Wednesday this month, and while Hanukkah started on Monday the 29th, it’s not a bank holiday, and should not have impacted bank transactions or hours that week. However, according to information below, being late with your rent by one day would not be sufficient grounds for your landlord to charge a late fee, even if such a charge was outlined in your lease agreement.
C. If a landlord does not offer a written rental agreement, the tenancy shall exist by operation of law, consisting of the following terms and conditions: (see link for all points, 1-7).
(This chapter, along with other laws, outline prohibitions and limitations to what landlords and tenants can include in a lease agreement. The lease agreement can include terms/conditions such as rent, late fees, requiring that tenants provide notice if they intend to vacate, break, or terminate their lease agreement, etc. as long as they are in accordance with these laws.).
A. A landlord and tenant may include in a rental agreement terms and conditions not prohibited by this chapter or other rule of law, including rent, charges for late payment of rent, the term of the agreement, automatic renewal of the rental agreement, requirements for notice of intent to vacate or terminate the rental agreement, and other provisions governing the rights and obligations of the parties.