But I'm still not going to report it, because I have a duty of confidentiality to my client that is more important than any other aspect of my representation. Even if the client doesn't take my advice and continues to do stupid shit, I'm not going to be the one to report that, because they are my client and I am absolutely prohibited from doing things that are against their interests or reveal a confidence.
First, the crime/fraud exception (what is being discussed here) has a lot of caveats to it, one of them being that they have to use information from the lawyer in some way. Lawyers work with people who have committed crimes in the past and are totally going to commit crimes in the future all the time. The point is that they're somehow using the lawyer to do it.
However, your best bet is up contact an attorney. Whether that be the public defender's office or some sort of legal aid charity organizations, that is up to you.
You definitely can still be held responsible for juvenile charges while of adult age, just that it normally is still handled in juvenile court. I've seen it with my very eyes when a friend was brought back to court on a probation violation as an 18 year old for charges originating as a juvenile. Court was held behind closed doors in juvenile court rather than adult court as they were still under jurisdiction of juvenile courts.
Right, my point was that they would still be part of the original juvenile case, rather than existing as new charges that would function in normal "adult" court.
In my state the juvenile court can retain jurisdiction until you’re 21, and they would have already appointed an attorney to represent you.
In my jurisdiction, I’ve had many adults (between the ages of 18-21) return to my juvenile detention center, and they have no new criminal charges, but are held on that “juvenile detainer” in relation to charges/cases from their juvenile record.
If they violate the terms of their release or if new charges arise from old cases (additional victims are tied to them through new evidence or testimony), that “juvenile detainer” functions to hold them, as adults, for something incomplete from their juvenile record.
The issue is that removing the box and failing to meet the terms of your electronic monitoring from your juvenile charges will likely result in a formal “violation” and potentially new charges resulting from essentially evading arrest.