I was reading a text (from The Overworked American: The Unexpected Decline of Leisure, by Juliet B. Schor) comparing the working hours of the medieval peasant and the todaýs worker.
Thomas further notes that in Early Modern England, work among certain classes was treated as working for a living (ie, to provide just enough for survival, and little more), as opposed to working as a living. For manual laborers, he notes that they seem to have worked longer hours but at a more leisurely (or another way of looking at it, more inefficient) pace.
His economic theory gets into the concept of people having "ownerships" that could be exchanged for "opportunities" (ie, someone could work for or buy food) in "exchange entitlements", and that it was the breakdown of these entitlements that caused famines. That's from his 1981 "Poverty and Famines". He subsequently developed the idea that countries with responsible governments facing recurring elections and that had a free press were free from famine conditions, but in these cases as far as I can tell he was mostly focusing on famines or the prevention of famines in the 20th century.
A "tight-knit community where everyone had a purpose and was supported by others" would sound great to one type of person, but seem unremittingly hopeless and stifling for another person whose beliefs did not adhere to community norms, or who aspired to a change in life settings. Even in the 20th century, despite with increased access to education, Russian rural inhabitants tended to be relatively undereducated, with limited means of personal advancement, beyond gaining enrollment in an educational or training program and hopefully moving out to a town or city. For Medieval Europeans, depending on the time and place, maybe the clergy would be a similar option, but very few peasants were able to leave for towns or cities.
Since medieval sources tend to be written from the perspective of literate men based in cities or monasteries, the perspective of peasants is often only briefly mentioned. It is likewise difficult to make any concrete estimations about lifespan, infant mortality rate, and nutrition for most medieval peasant communities due to lack of sources (although the picture begins to come into focus during the Early Modern Period). When we read about a “great famine” in the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle or The Complete History of Ibn al-Athir, we therefore have to imagine that a bad harvest - caused potentially by drought, an early frost, heavy rains, or conflict - brought with it immense human suffering and the displacement of communities from their ancestral homes.