Great reflection here on how scientific theory is attacked piecemeal depending on what an ideology considers its fundamental underpinnings. So the origins of the universe for people who took Marx as flawless, biology that contradicted race-hierarchy nonsense among the Nazis, or evolution and geology by religious literalists.
The Big Bang, Einsteinian Relativity, Quantum Theory, Darwinism, Freudianism, Copernicanism, and so on are doctrines of thought that make extremely large and often counterintuitive claims about the nature of life, the nature of human activity, the nature of the universe, and so on. In that sense it is not surprising that they have been confronted by forms of authority (whether political, religious, or generally cultural) that find themselves in competition with them. In that sense, they are not "abstract and non-human" — there is a significant difference between "God made everything" and "everything aways has existed and always will," which is sort of how the Chinese ideologues understood the conflict between the Big Bang and Steady State.
Now you and I can say, hey, there are plenty of non-religious people who agree with the Big Bang, and ultimately the evidence is what's important, and so on. But that takes a certain faith that the entire edifice of Western science is not built to reinforce certain ideological values, and that's not something that those at the height of the Cultural Revolution would readily agree with.
While I agree with the "see these kinds of things as opportunistic attacks in a broader context" as opposed to "coordinated state campaigns," in the case of cosmology during the Cultural Revolution it seems larger than just a few young academics. Well into the 1970s there were many attacks on the Big Bang in particular in official news organs and academic journals, both popular and academic, along ideological lines. These were orchestrated, apparently, by two of the "Gang of Four" (Zhang Chunqiao and Yao Wenyuan), and carried out by groups of journalists and university scientists acting in concert (and signing many of their articles by the collective pseudonym of "Li Ki," meaning "the sciences," apparently). The specific attacks on relativistic cosmology were inherited, in a way, from the Soviets, and no articles on the subject were published in China until 1972, and the one article that was published (by Fang Lizhi) was attacked until Mao's death.