Thanks for going to so much effort to find all this. This is all really useful. I appreciate it. I will definitely watch that documentary! I don’t suppose you know whether such support systems of LGBTQ elders taking in younger members of the community was something that existed outside of ball culture? I have read stuff on families of choice within the LGBTQ community and about LGBTQ people helping people secure rooms and apartments in LGBTQ friendly spaces but nothing quite like what I’ve read around people taking on guardian roles in ball culture.
This is amazing. Thanks. This is all really informative . I’ll definitely check out some of those references. I’m actually a sociologist so a lot of of what I’m writing about is focused on the present. However, I want to draw on some of this historical data to demonstrate that the way in which community and identity is constructed now involves so much erasure of the past. I have found D’Emilio works particular helpful. I also read a good on queer history in London during the early 20th century that explores a lot of the things you mention around coming out.
The “Odd Girls and Twilight Lovers” and “A Queer History” are likely to be the ones of most use to you in that regard of the books I mentioned. I really can’t recommend the latter highly enough; it spends so much time on the wider social aspects of the community rather than focusing only on the romantic side.
You’re most welcome. Erasure is a massive problem where LGBT+ history is concerned because it tends to be viewed as inherently sexual and therefore not suitable for general audiences when that idea is very much a throwback to when queerness was pathologized. Destigmatizing the history of the LGBT+ community is something I’m passionate about, so I’d be interested in the conclusions you end up with.
“The Ultimate Extension of Gay Community”: Communal Living and Gay Liberation in the 1970s by Stephen Vider.
Sexual Politics, Sexual Communities: The Making of a Homosexual Minority in the United States 1940-1970 by John D'Emilio.
Another book, The Politics of Homosexuality (Toby Marotta), gets pretty in depth about how LGBT+ political groups projected their identities when trying to find their place out in the open in American culture. That might be of interest since you're looking specifically at how identities were formed because one of the big roles early groups like Mattachine and Daughters of Bilitis played was in trying to dispel myths and educate the public on the lives of queer people in an effort to move away from the stigma associated with it. (D'Emilio also discusses this, though more in relation to DOB than Mattachine.).