Hi! I was wondering if there were any actual witches in America at this time? By “actual witches” I mean did any women self-identify as Witches? Was there any type of coherent Witch culture that these people would have participated in? Is there any records of Witch’s communicating about their craft with one another?
How do the Salem Witch Trials fit into the wider context of witchhunting in the Early Modern world? Did they and other American witch trials have similar causes and features to those on the other side of the Atlantic or was the American context different?
In what ways do you feel the Salem trials were unique from the less popular trials elsewhere in colonial America?
The European witch hunts and trials heavily influenced the Salem trials. Most of the folklore mentioned in Salem was rooted in European traditions. There was a thriving print culture between the colonies and Europe, although that was mostly European works sent to the colonies. However, Increase Mather, a minister in Boston, could walk into a bookstore and read recent religious tracts and books from Europe. He heavily desired to be one of those Atlantic intellectuals, so throughout the 1670s and 80s, he wrote to that effect- succeeding at it.
Aha- the question that shows up just about every time. The short answer is "No" and the long answer is "No, but...". So first off- its a No because the definition of a witch at the time meant someone who made a pact with the Devil. Other definitions of a witch- like a Wiccan or a Halloween caricature or a teenager named Sabrina- is not the same a what Puritans thought of as a witch. Witches in the 17th century were people who signed the Devil's book and sold their soul to Satan.
However, what that means is there were no witches, but there were women (and men) who confessed to witchcraft. Its very easy to dismiss these confessions as lies to save themselves in 1692- after all, people refused to confess were going to trial and hanging first. A confession bought some time, and it happened to be enough time. But that doesn't mean these confessions were only lies. Elizabeth Reis' phenomenal book Damned Women talks about the nature of sin, witchcraft, and gender in the 17th century. It is possible that some women who confessed to witchcraft internalized the idea of sin to think that maybe despite not signing the Devil's book, they've still committed sins and gave themselves to the Devil anyway, making them a witch. Puritanism and womanhood had a complex relationship and it could have led some women to identify themselves as witches despite not committing the necessary act of signing the Devil's book.