> US federal income tax works according to tax brackets, meaning that different amounts of your income are taxed at different rates. In 2019, for example, your first $19,000 of income is taxed at 10%, and your next $58,000 or so of income is taxed at 12%, and so on.
How would this lower salary have helped her at all? As you wrote, the higher tax rate doesn't apply retroactively to the lower brackets:
OK, last point is back to effective tax rates versus marginal tax rates. Part of this is that when looking at tax burden, you don't look at just federal income tax, but state and local taxes as well, and you include payroll tax (this is what funds Social Security and Medicare, the latter of which was only created in 1965...it's a regressive tax by the way, meaning that once you hit a set level of income you stop paying it), corporate tax, capital gains tax, property tax, inheritance tax, sales tax, etc. Taxes, taxes taxes! But effective tax also takes into account that not everyone is paying the sticker price: if you earn more money, you will look for more means to exploit loopholes. Thomas Piketty, Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman in fact looked at the effective tax rate paid by the top 1% of earners in the US by year, and found that while it is higher than the current effective rate, it's still around 45% of pre-tax income (you can see in Figure IX ).
So, in short: the tax rates on an earner like Don would be higher in the 1960s than today, as the federal income tax rates were much more progressive. But the effective tax rate, while still higher than today, was not necessarily "punishing".
If the employer just offered that person $20,000, then that person might turn around and ask for more up front because now they and any bonuses they earn will already be taxed at the higher rate.
As far as I understand this, the higher tax would only be for earnings above $20,000, so this argument does not hold up, or do I misinterpret something? Or is it a psychological argument, that people see only the last tax bracket and "overestimate" the effect of the tax bracket?
So, once again this misunderstands how marginal tax rates work. Using , with Don married and filing jointly, he would only pay that 59% tax on his last $1000 of income. His first $4000 would be taxed at 20%. His next $4000 at 22%, etc., etc., all the way up to that last $1000. Throwing this into Excel real quick gives Don a take-home income of $27,650 (equivalent of about $235K today), and making his actual effective tax rate about 39%, even though his top marginal tax rate is 59%.