1. Not to force my landlord to evict them, don't add on extra things I did not say. I was told by a firm to write a demand letter for record keeping and to make it certified because landlords can say they didn't receive calls/complaints.
2. She IS causing me emotional distress because she's constantly harassing me. I have an health issue. When I'm under stress my body reacts by shutting down. She is defaming my mother because she is LYING saying we scratched her car and saying we did things we DIDN'T DO.
While her saying your mother scratched her care may be untrue, that doesn't mean the nejghbour is lying. If she truly believes your mother scratched her car than it is not defamation.
One aspect of defamation is if a person is saying something they know is untrue in an attempt to harm another.
In other words, if I know for a fact you have always been honest with me, but I tell you, to your face, that you're a liar, that's not defamation. If, on the other hand, I go out of my way to tell other people that you've always lied to me and give specific examples that I know full well never happened, that might be defamation.
Your and your mother's recourse for the neighbour's threatening conduct is limited. You can file police reports, and things like "I'm going to shoot this place up" and "I'm going to bash in your car" are probably criminal threats, and if there's a good reason your mother fears for her safety, she can get a restraining order. However, all of that will be complicated because your mother is _deliberately_ seeking out confrontation with her neighbour by doing things like openly recording her in her own home, shouting back at her through the walls, and otherwise being extremely reactive in her own way. I understand that response, but it's the wrong answer, as an outside observer would easily conclude that the dispute is as much yours and your mother's as it is the neighbour's as long as you keep reacting that way.
The two relationships operate independently. The landlord is not legally responsible for, and has very limited ways to intervene in, the relationship your mother has with a neighbour, even if that neighbour is also a tenant on the same property. Conversely, the tenant is not responsible for, and has no way to intervene in, your mother's relationship with her landlord: her neighbour can't evict her, for example.
If you don't want to move, you're going to need to find a way to make your peace with having a hostile neighbour until she does something openly criminal (which can get her arrested) or until she makes enough trouble that the landlord decides they're better off evicting her. If that's not acceptable to you, move.