The benefits of COVID to Biden's campaign really can't be overstated, and it goes beyond just the effects it had on Trump's popularity, which were substantial. Getting Biden off the trail and getting him much more rest and limiting his exposure to almost exclusively short, prepared appearances was a God-send for that campaign. When he was going through the regular campaign rigmarole, he was not handling it well. It seemed like at least a couple times a week he'd have some weird, troubling episode like calling someone a dog-faced pony soldier, challenging someone to a pushup contest, forgetting the preamble to the constitution, forgetting the names of his primary opponents, the leg hair monologue, etc. Putting him in a lower-stress, less-public bubble clearly had a huge positive impact on his ability to demonstrate competence, at which point people were more easily able to toss him an "I like Obama" vote or otherwise talk themselves into settling for him.
Fuck Democratic primary voters for that. If they were so demoralized by one not-particularly-large state that they gave up on candidates they liked more, then they're stupid. And if there weren't candidates they liked more because they were just so hyped to vote for someone associated with Obama, then they got what they wanted.
And the media, when a non-moderate candidate does poorly in SC, will then say, “well clearly America doesn’t want their politics” with a straight face. Sadly we as an electorate don’t have the time to investigate that for ourselves and will agree.
Ugh, as a black man who isn’t religious, I hate this pandering to the more conservative voters in SC.
Well congrats for Dems figuring out how to make sure nobody remotely progressive gets anywhere in a presidential primary.
Your vote DOES count less when it comes to helping Dems win the presidency. I'm sorry if that hurts your feelings, but it's just a fact because of the electoral college.
It should be based on how the previous cycles went. States that flipped from red to blue over the two previous presidential elections should go first, followed by purple states that were close, blue states next and finally red states.
Primaries should occur first in states where the last Prez election was closest (swing states like PA, FL, AZ) and last in states where it was least close (DC, Wyoming, Alabama, etc). If a candidate wins those early primaries, they are likelier to do well in the general.