Start looking for a new place now. You have a a decent amount of time to find new housing. It's def scary since it seems sudden and there are a lot of unknowns at the moment, but it's a new development which inherently is unsettling and you're in a better spot than you think.
And worst case, if you have nothing by August 1, it's not as though you are automatically homeless. He has to go to through the proper eviction process in the courts, which can take a while. However, I cant advise against this enough as if there is an eviction on your record, it will making finding quality housing MUCH more difficult.
However, once that eviction paperwork is filed with the courts it stays on your record and will make finding a new rental immensely more difficult for about the next 7 years.
If you don’t leave by the end of July you will be evicted, with an eviction on your record you will be in a much worse situation trying to find alternative accommodation.
That will depend on whats written in your lease due if it is a fixed term and does not specify and requirements regarding notice, I don’t believe it will automatically roll to month to month unless the landlord accepts rent. In which case, without a renewal being in place, the landlord will be entitled to commence eviction proceedings immediately.
Your landlord would have to start the eviction process, if you cannot move out on that date. That would probably be worse on your application than not having a job. You do not want to get evicted as it makes getting residency anywhere else a royal pain in the ass if they background check you.
so you just need to lay it out that if you don’t have anywhere else to go by then, you will have to stay until either you find somewhere else or are evicted. if you present it to him as “let’s try and come up with a solution to avoid that so you don’t risk your sale and incur costs and I don’t end up with an eviction on my record” he might be a bit more accommodating. At the end of the day you need to make it clear that you’ll try to leave as early as possible, but him insisting you leave by that date doesn’t mean you will be gone.