Your explanation is really captivating. I just would like to add a geographical fact that helped Monaco stayed independant during the Italian unification: on the map, Menton is a town that is between Monaco and the italian border, so when Menton became french with the rest of the County of Nice in 1860, Monaco found itself enclaved inside the territory of France and this probably prevented any italian tentative to assimilate Monaco to the republic of Italy.
To give a simple answer to your question; Monaco survived thanks to its status as a protectorate of larger countries that others didn't want to mess with, mostly France though, at the time of Italy's unification, Sardinia.
Of course, Monaco was willing to subject themselves to the protection of these more powerful nations, which for France and Spain was beneficial in terms of granting them control — even if marginal — over the country.
From what I can tell, it's a combination of Monaco's strategic position on the Mediterranean, the country's willingness to be a protectorate, and the nature of the treaties that secured its position as subject.
The answer to this, as I mentioned initially, is simply the treaties that secured Monaco's protection; a condition of Monaco becoming protectorate to these powers was recognition of the country as a sovereign state, and its ruler as a sovereign in his own right. These treaties expanded French, Spanish, and Sardinian influence into Monaco and the surrounding area, but bound them to respect Monégasque sovereignty rather than annex them outright.
This essentially bound Sardinia to continue recognising the sovereignty of Monaco, while also having the country as a protectorate to their kingdom. During the unification of Italy, Sardinia was more concerned with conquering and unifying those parts of Italy that were outside of their influence or control; this didn't include Monaco, who were already subject to Sardinia.
If I’m reading correctly, Sardinia didn’t incorporate it into Italy in the lead up to formal establishment of the kingdom, and right before it did establish that kingdom it ceded protectorship to France, guaranteeing its independence.
They technically achieved this by placing themselves under the protection of Sardinia, and while Sardinia proceeded to administer the cities until 1860, concerns with their borders kept Sardinia from fully annexing the cities before ceding the territory to France in 1860.
The country seems to have narrowly avoided incorporation into the Kingdom of Italy when in 1860 the entirety of Sardinian Nice and Savoy were ceded to France, and Monaco was made an independent protectorate of the French instead. This secured French military protection for Monaco, but saw France annex the cities of Menton and Roquebrune, which accounted for 95% of Monaco's territory, in return. Monaco has largely remained under the military protection of France ever since.