The torpedo hits to the sterns of Prince of Wales and Bismarck are not exactly comparable. The hit on Prince of Wales was almost directly on her outer port propeller shaft, just forward of where it left the hull. This hit severely damaged the shaft, but it continued to rotate. The damage to the shaft meant that it rotated off-centre. This off-centre rotation destroyed the watertight integrity of the stern gland and watertight integrity along the entire line of the propeller shaft. As a result, flooding was uncontrollable. Steering was knocked out by the torpedo impact, but could fairly easily have been restored, as the rudders were intact; the problem was in the power systems to them. A torpedo hit further forward or further aft would not have had the same effect, as the hit wouldn't have damaged the propeller shaft. Any warship would be vulnerable to such a hit, regardless of stern design - the American battleship Pennsylvania only survived a similar torpedo hit in 1945 because she was stationary when the hit occurred.
Bismarck's radar was not intended as a primary means of detection. German naval radar focused mainly on gunnery control. They were designed to obtain ranges to a relatively close target, especially in bad weather or at night. It is, of course, a great disadvantage if a key part of your gunnery control system is knocked out by the firing of the guns it directs. The first British gunnery control radar, the Type 284, entered service in 1940, and I have seen no discussion of damage to it (or any other radar) from blast in battleships, though radars fitted in cruisers were more vulnerable as there was limited space to fit them. The RN was very conscious of the risk of damage to radar equipment from shock and blast, and took pains to reduce the risk of damage. That the Germans did not consider it when siting their radars is a design flaw.
Again, I don't disagree that the radar was poorly designed it's not something that would render the Bismarck mission inoperable. Radar was not her only means of detection. She had great hydrophones that detected and tracked Suffolk at 13 kms and Prince of Wales at 37. She had four float planes (while difficult to recover in harsh conditions prevalent in the North Atlantic) still aid in the role of detection for a surface raider and she had Prinz Eugen with a similar radar to spot for her. A design flaw for sure but not mission critical. Bismarck did not have radar guided main batteries or AA, the radar was purely for search purposes and navigation. There's no denying it was a design flaw though.
I'm just curious what you mean by "it's design ... was severely flawed". Are you refering to the fact that Bismarch was difficult to maneuver with propeller revolutions alone?