Because those corporations knew that, on the whole, if all of them paid their employees well, that those employees would be consumers of products and services for other companies, and other companies’ employees would be the same for them. The idea of siloing capital to earn a percentage for executives and stakeholders instead of paying workers has sucked the wealth from the productive class.
The idea is that the very rich or wealthy have a disproportionate amount of influence economically and socially. Money talks. Government policy that benefits a small percentage of wealthy people is demonstrably bad.
Policy that benefits large amounts of people is better. Structuring benefits and incentives around a "middle-class" is even better. A middle-class incetivises those on the low end to aspire to a better standard of living, and gives incentive to the high-end to keep the middle class happy. Middle class earners routinely spend money and generate income for those above them.
The only time they work to strenhen the economy is when it will yield more wealth for the already wealthy.
Forth, most investment done by the wealthy today has nothing to do with business investments. People buy stock, which is bought from another person and not done to invest in a business. Businesses are funded through loans from banks and funding from investment funds. Gone are the days when a wealthy tycoon would open up a factory in a town to expand their business; we aren't in the 1860s anymore.
Third, reducing taxes cannot be offset by an increase in tax revenue. Based on how taxes are collected, if you give a person an extra 1,000 dollars to spend, they'd need to spend all of that, then have the taxes from sales and corporate income taken out, then repeated through either business sales or payroll, and repeat. Except see point two. When given money not everyone decides to spend it all, including businesses. And that's only for the portion that the rich person chooses to spend. When the government spends money on people through public works and welfare all of the allocated money gets spent and goes through the same cycle of taxation and ends up being recollected by the government. It still may be a net loss, but it's a government expense, it's not intended to pay for itself so the gains are through the betterment of society as a whole.
First off, employees aren't paid out from the managers pocket, they're paid by the business' revenue. Cutting taxes for the wealthy may make them invest more, but they're not consuming the kinds of things most businesses produce so that won't go down to employees pockets.