This was very interesting, thank you! Is there any chance you could go into more detail on what you consider to be the causal factors of industrialisation that you mention in the below paragraph?
This is because technology is only one element of industrialisation, and arguably not even a causal one. The process doesn't happen because of new tech; new tech is invented to facilitate the process. The actual causes have more to do with the availability of certain resources (capital, labour, ingenuity) to meet certain economic and political challenges within a global network of trade and colonialism. Without this complex system of factors in place, industrialisation could never have happened anywhere. Plunk a fully functioning steam engine down in Bronze Age Mesopotamia and I guarantee you that absolutely nothing will happen.
Firstly: while inventions like the steam engine can be seen as markers of linear technological progress (from simple to more complex machines, etc), industrialisation is a historical process. It is not linear; it doesn't simply happen because someone invents the right machines. Even in the actual age of industrialisation, with the technology readily available, only some parts of the world actually industrialised while others either struggled to keep up or took no part in the process at all. Even within industrialising European nations, industry tended to be concentrated in a few heavily urbanised areas with good transport links, while much of the country remained at first unaffected.
Indeed, this is more or less what happened in Ancient Egypt. A rudimentary steam engine was invented there in the 1st century AD, a few centuries after Ptolemy VIII. But with no practical application, economic purpose, or socio-political value, the machine remained nothing more than an amusing toy for philosophers. There was no force that might pull the steam engine into the service of industrialisation, so it did not happen.
The steam engine is a good example. The first practical steam engine, the Newcomen engine, was an atmospheric engine. It relied on a condenser, which condensed steam through the injection of cold water, creating a vacuum, which drove the motion of the engine through atmospheric pressure. It is very hard to imagine this being invented without the theoretical understanding of at least atmospheric pressure, and maybe vacuums. So even if the practical application existed, the 1 AD steam engine couldn't have been able to, say, drain a mine. By the time of the Newcomen engine, other cultures understood atmospheric pressure, and China had at least an example of condensation creating a vacuum, but Ptolemaic Egypt was very very far away from this, and a practical steam engine probably wasn't possible in Europe just from a scientific perspective until the 1600s.
The steam engine is generally considered to be the only invention of the first wave of inventions during the industrial revolution that required knowledge from the ongoing scientific revolution (issues with those names aside), with the rest mostly being the result of tinkering. This doesn't necessarily mean that tinkering earlier could have got you there, for example, a lot of the advances in weaving relied on precision machinery and gears originally developed for watches and clocks. This also happened much later than this time in Egypt.