Does the order from the judge say the tenant doesn't owe rent? In general, you have u pay for the time you live in a rental unless a court order says otherwise (generally when a unit is not legal to rent).
I don't see how your codes apply. They are not tenancy coded. Already, the landlord didn't imped the tenants ability to live there obviously since they continued.
Tenant was allowed to continue living there. But not for free. The landlord has the right to file for eviction. Wrong or right. That's what the judge decides. Unless the judge states tenant gets to live for free, they don't.
You’ve been living in a place and have withheld rent. Lookup what that requires in CA. You don’t fit that. Your proper course of action would’ve been to continue paying rent and when the landlord sued for unlawful detainer make your case to the court. If ruled in your favor the court decides the damages. You not paying rent is/will appear to be in bad faith to the contract and tenancy laws in your state. You consult a lawyer 59 days before your notice expires if you feel it’s retaliatory. Not 12 months after.
You’re best bet at this point is to hire a lawyer if your plan on contesting their termination of tenancy based upon retaliation. Not paying rent in the interim is going to hurt you.
Broadly speaking, the tenant owes rent until they vacate. Giving notice doesn't end rent obligation before the date the tenancy terminated and the tenant surrenders possession back to the landlord.
If tenant legally owes rent only up to the expiration of notice of termination of tenancy, then he only owes two months of rent. If tenant legally owes rent or damages beyond the expiration of notice of termination of tenancy, it would be ten months or far as long as he held over, whether it be a day or a year.
I know that it may sound shocking or counter intuitive for some people that someone could live for free for months on end without incurring liability, but it may be a legal possibility that would never present itself during normal times because a landlord would promptly file an eviction lawsuit following the expiration of notice of termination of tenancy.
If according to the law, a tenant that successfully relies on a retaliatory eviction defense is not legally liable for rent or damages following the expiration of a notice of termination of tenancy, then not paying rent past that point would not hurt him at all, and in fact would tremendously help him.
This question, however, is premised on the tenant relying on a retaliatory eviction defense and winning.
What you're saying in the second paragraph of your response may be true if the landlord terminated the tenancy based on a legally valid reason. However, what if the landlord illegally terminated the tenancy? In such a situation, the landlord would not win the eviction lawsuit and would not be able to collect damages. Since a contract did not exist, he could not demand rent either.
A lease is a legal contract. A notice of termination of tenancy is a termination of the contract. The termination of tenancy implicitly rejects further rent payments. The tenant may be liable for rent up till the expiration of the notice, but after the notice expires, based on my understanding of the law, the contract has terminated so the landlord cannot legally demand rent, but can sue for damages equivalent to rental amounts.
What do you think of the factual allegation that the landlord terminated the tenancy based on the tenant's posting a notice on the resident manager's door informing him of the existence of a private nuisance?
So you don't believe that sections 1511 and 1512 of the California Civil Code apply to the cancellation of rental contract by a landlord?
Your statement, "Not paying rent in the interim is going to hurt you," ignores the information provided in the post.