1. Bismarck was not sunk by British aircraft. She was rendered a burning wreck in a surface action with British warships and that damage combined with intentional scuttling by her crew resulted in her sinking.
4. The famous attack then comes 2 days later, after the first attack Bismarck had managed to break contact from her pursuers and the hunt reached frantic efforts to find her before she could get to port or under the range of German shore based air cover or protection by U-Boats at sea. After being sighted again by aircraft, and following 1 botched attack again with friendly fire, Ark Royal, whose task force was the closest and last best chance, sent up 15 Swordfish in the early evening of the 26th. They scored 2 hits, 1 was again well contained by her armor belt, but the other damaged her port side rudder and jammed it at 12 degrees, meaning she was essentially stuck in a wide turn, not easily corrected by her other rudder or multiple propellers. Overnight British forces closed in and the battleship was sunk the next morning.
3. To support this both Victorious and Ark Royal launched air strikes from their embarked air wings. These were comprised of what aircraft were aboard. Including the Fairey Swordfish's at question here. On May 24th in late afternoon Victorious sent 6 Fulmar fighters escorting 9 Swordfish torpedo bombers. After misadventure in almost attacking friendlies they reach Bismarck. 8 of the torpedoes were misses, 1 did hit but did very minimal damage when it hit her armor belt. However the aggressive maneuvering mad existing flooding and leaks worse from her battle with Hood and Prince of Wales. This forced the evacuation of part of her engineering spaces and reduced her speed.
3. The sheer size of the area involved. The sortie was in the end a huge arc around the UK. This involved thousands of square miles. And when the decision was made to run for the French ports, the area around the Bay of Biscay and the Western Approaches would be critical. If Bismarck could get there without close pursuit she stood a solid chance of at least getting to port in one piece once under protection of German shore based air.
I had the idea that the British were trying to keep the German fleet boxed in - and that if the Bismarck successfully broke out into the Atlantic she would be safe. From the map that is evidently not so!