First "Mahayana" can be very broad. It is usual to divide Buddhism into two broad categories: Mahayana and Theravada. Thus, Vajrayana, Zen/Chan, and Jodo Shinshu are all part of Mahayana, Zen and Jodo Shinshu being schools, and Vajrayana a broad category covering tantric Buddhism.
Postscript: Shingon Buddhism is the biggest surviving Japanese tantric Buddhist school, and is part of Vajrayana. This comes from old Chinese roots, and owes little if anything to Tiberan Vajrayana. Tibetan Vajrayana Buddhism had its biggest pre-modern spread outside Tibet when the Mongol Empire adopted Tibetan Buddhism.
Tibet mainly followed general Mahayana Buddhism for a few centuries until at some point it started mainly following a specific subsect of Mahayana called Vajrayana. It was spread across much of Asia and beyond when the Mongols conquered Tibet, which ended up helping to spread the religion. And today "Tibetan Buddhism" is one of if not the most popular form(s) of Buddhism across the world.
I'm sure wotan_weevil will be able to discuss Japan much better than I can, but I want to clear something up as regards Tibetan Buddhism. While the overall school of 'Vajrayana' emerged in the sixth century and most of the features of modern Tibetan Buddhism emerged in the ninth, the emergence of a relatively coherent, organised Tibetan 'church', so to speak, dates largely to the seventeenth century, after the Geluk school was given primacy by Güshi Khan of the Khoshut Mongols in 1645. While branches of Tibetan Buddhism were active across the eastern steppe thanks to the Mongols, actual religious authority was vested in these regional branches and their leading khutukhtus.
Besides that, from a numerical standpoint Tibetan Buddhism isn't exactly the largest denomination of Buddhists, as the Mongols really only absorbed it amongst themselves. Vajrayana Buddhists constitute perhaps 5% of the world's Buddhist population, compared to about 65% other Mayahana and 30% Theravada. While certainly a lot of people, the broader Mahayana and Theravada traditions are by far the more numerous.
Yeah I knew about Theravada, I had thought it and Mahayana were the two main sects. The map threw me off with listing Vajrayana (a subsect of Mahayana as you say) alongside the two main sects, making me think it was a third main sect.
Some people divide Buddhism into three branches, with Vajrayana as the third branch. Usually, they consider Vajrayana as a type of Mahayana, but a different enough type to warrant a new category.