If you have any questions about our Floating Features or the Flair Drive, please keep them as responses to this comment.
Volume VIII brings us to a time of , and of , and we welcome everyone to share history that related to that period, whatever else it might be about. Share stories, whether happy, sad, funny, moving; Share something interesting or profound that you just read; Share what you are currently working on in your research. It is all welcome!
Thank you. One of the true advantages of r/AskAHistorian is that due to the nature of this subreddit and the high standards insisted upon, is that we do not disagree with each other.
If you wanted someone to break a code? You went to young Thomas. This was to be the story of his life.
SO, where does this story leave us? Beyond being a fun story about death and spirit possession, there are a number of things we can learn about Jewish life and practice in this region at this specific moment in time:
-Most importantly, concerning the central question of proper practice, or how to live Jewishly, this story is a treasure trove. It offers us a sort of spectrum of Jewishness, from the most awful Jew to the greatest Jew. On the horrible end of the spectrum is the dybbuk, who is so terrible that he is forced to wander. The very bad but not horrible Jew is the widow who questions her faith and in the process opens herself up to possession. Closer to the middle are the townsfolk who stand around watching the spectacle, and whose darkest secrets are revealed. Moving towards the good are the family members who seek help and the local rabbis. Near the great end of the spectrum are Isaac Luria and Chaim Vital, who devote their lives to these issues and desire to achieve greatness. There’s an end to the spectrum that didn’t come up in this story, the exceptionally great, hall-of-fame Jews known as the Sages (that’s a story for another day, but very briefly, Luria had a practice of clinging his soul to those of the wisest rabbis from Jewish history in order to learn from them).