Working for the government as an office drone gets a bad rep. “Why can’t you be ambitious like your cousin?” But raises and promotions are clearly defined and scheduled.
You aren’t given unrealistic expectations to produce either. Driving new marketing and growth opportunities is your job not mine.
Biden took over and sent in an arbitrator which is why we have this slightly better choice but it falls short.
They wish Biden's proposal in the negotiation would've been better, but they recognize that Democrats still tried to get them sick leave, while Republicans wouldn't.
If Biden and the Democrats would have had the guts to include the seven sick days out of the fifteen they were asking for in the original bill instead of being cowards and splitting it of to die in a predictable Manchin and Republican fire this wouldn't have been a issue in the first place.
And yeah, of course Republicans and Manchin/Sinema are complete assholes but man if this didn't have to be an issue or at least they could have said we actually gave it a try and Republicans and Manchin killed it and they would have still had time to pass the version without sick leave and shown that Democrats truly backed the working people.
Let me get this straight: the bill, which was nearly split right along party lines, with the majority of republicans voting against it, and the majority of democrats voting for it; which still didn't pass, would have passed if they included sick time?
Again, not denying that the bill needed to be passed, not denying that Republicans suck, I am saying there were options in the political reality that Democrats didn't take and I will criticise them for not taking them.
To me it seems like even the unions seem to be like me where they understand that things had to be resolved, that they realize both sides are not the same, but it's okay to feel disappointed that Democrats didn't seem to fully do everything they could.
Union leadership seems to lean towards the nuance and complexity as well, considering they said Democrats had their votes for pushing for the sick leave, and now Republicans do not.
On the upside though, I've read through statements by the union leaders today, and they consider the sick leave bill significant. They understand why Biden and Congress had to take action, and they said they wouldn't forget that Democrats had their back in voting for sick leave.
They say they understood why Biden and Congress had to take action. And they see the Democrat push to add sick leave as having their backs -- which they won't forget.
Weird how union leadership has expressed appreciation for Democrats pushing for sick leave, and that it's earned their votes. And then said Republicans would not have their votes.
Do you truly believe Republicans would've voted for a single bill? They made it clear long ago they'd rather shut down and defund the government than do something like give more sick leave.