Wow! Fascinating gathering of the evidence for this answer. I wanted to ask further about the Persians' capture of the Cross -- IIRC, Touraj Daryaee in Sasanian Persia (2013), his introductory survey to the dynasty, suggests that we also need to consider the Persian side of the event. He argues first that the Mesopotamian heartlands of the empire were far more linguistically and religiously diverse than we often acknowledge; that is, he stresses a divide between Aramaic-dialect-speaking commoners, often Christian, and elite Persian-dialect-speaking practitioners of court-Zoroastrianism. Thus, the Sasanian court (or elements therein) could have had an eye toward the reception of the Cross amongst the empire's native Christian population. Strategios' account of Shirin supports the notion that we should disaggregate the motives of "the Persians" (though it seems to me that Shirin is in many ways a figure as mythical and literary as Helena). Your analysis of the diplomatic and political factors in play amongst Persian high command is compelling, but I wanted to ask about this. Unfortunately, I also don't have the book available to me anymore so I'm working from memory here and cannot talk about his specific evidence on this point.
Towards the very end of your answer you mention that the relic trade did not cross Roman-Persian borders, and I get the sense from my undergrad studies of this period that Roman Christian organizations, especially those aspiring towards official favor, did not engage much with Christians on the other side of the border at all. So basically I'm curious what your take is on the Christian perspective from the other side of the border re: the capture of the cross? (although, again remembering from undergrad, the source tradition for the Sasanian period is extremely patchy and non-contemporary). Thanks, hope this made sense!
This answer by the Romans, including a likely answer to your question about "reuse" of crucifixes: probably yes, if you only count the stake driven in to the ground, but we don't know for sure because it turns out nobody contemporaneous really described what a crucifixion was anyway.
The provenance of certain of relating to the Crucifixion (pieces of the True Cross, the crown of thorns, etc).
To take the first of these two points first: we cannot be absolutely sure precisely what the relic of the True Cross looked like. Two accounts survive, and it is not entirely clear whether or not they are compatible. According to Theodoret, writing before 450, the portion of the cross that was retained in Jerusalem was 'enclosed in a covering of silver'. This seems to imply that the relic may have been completely hidden, and Theodoret's description might be interpreted as tying in to the Brevarium's description of the relic as 'sealed'. On the other hand, we do also have what appears to be an eye-witness account of the reliquary, written by a Roman pilgrim, or perhaps nun, named Egeria \[also known as Etheria\]. Egeria probably came from Gaul and visited Jerusalem in about 380. The fragment that survives of her account exists in the form of a letter that was apparently written from the Holy Land and sent home to a group of women of Egeria's acquaintance to relate her experiences: