One of the answers in is mine. I have actually fleshed out a more thorough answer to the question which goes through the Canadian colonies one by one and why they did not join the Revolution (though Quebec did raise some Patriot regiments, and some Nova Scotians fought on the side of the Patriots, too, and were banished from the colony).
To sum up: isolation from the other colonies, proportionally much larger military presence, and majority civilian disinterest kept what is now Canada apart from the Thirteen Colonies in their attempt for independence. If you're interested, I would recommend the following books on the subject (also, feel free to ask follow-up questions, in case I missed something, etc.):
In 1774, the area of North America that now comprises Canada consisted of (from east to west) the Colony of Newfoundland, the Colony of Nova Scotia, the Province of Quebec (modern-day Labrador, eastern Quebec and southern Ontario), Rupert's Land (modern-day western Quebec, northern Ontario, Manitoba, most of Saskatchewan, southern Alberta, and southern Nunavut), and the North-Western Territory (modern-day Yukon, Northwest Territories, northwestern Nunavut, northwestern Saskatchewan, northern Alberta, and northern British Columbia). In the case of the latter, there was no real definition to the western boundary of the territory, to my knowledge, and no government or permanent European settlement existed west of the western Hudson's Bay shoreline (again, to my knowledge; and I have looked). There was no explicit European claim to what is now southern British Columbia at the time, and it had not been explored, with the first recorded sighting of the Columbia River's mouth by a European (Bruno de Heceta) taking place the following year. The colonies (including the Province of Quebec) were much like the Thirteen colonies, if more sparsely populated than some. The Province of Quebec is estimated to have been more populous in 1774 with 100,000 to 120,000 than were Rhode Island, New Hampshire, Delaware, Georgia, and what would become Maine, Kentucky, Vermont, and Tennessee in 1770. Québec, Montreal, St. John's, and Halifax had already been established, though all were small, as had numerous other settlements of various sizes throughout the land east of the Hudson's Bay. Each colony / province had a governor and a council, and each had a sizable military contingent in the vicinity of its largest settlement. Compared to the Thirteen Colonies, these northern colonies were heavily fortified and, unlike in the south, the governors were always military officers (with the exception of the Ellis / Belcher government of Nova Scotia, 1760-1763) still active within the local command structure. Rupert's Land was a company-controlled region under the governance of the Hudson's Bay Company, which used the territory, and the then un-governed but definitely British North-Western Territory, for its extensive trapping networks. Trading posts and company stores dotted the area, but there were no permanent European settlements.
The final, and almost universally overlooked, attempt to draw a northern colony to the American side took place in Nova Scotia in 1776 and 1777. In 1776, Colonel Jonathan Eddy (a long-time resident of Nova Scotia prior to the war) led 180 militiamen to invade Nova Scotia with small arms provided by the Massachusetts legislature. To make a long story short, the whole campaign consisted of the unsuccessful Battle of Fort Cumberland (November 10 - 29), after which the local rebels were either driven out of the colony or accepted a blanket pardon in exchange for laying down arms. The following year, Colonel John Allan (a friend and co-conspirator of Eddy's, and, like him, a long-time Nova Scotian) led about 100 militiamen from Massachusetts to the mouth of the St. John River in present-day New Brunswick (then, Nova Scotia) to establish a congressionally-approved Patriot presence in the region, which, along with Cumberland, had been a main pocket of rebellion in Nova Scotia. Again, the campaign was a disaster, lasting only from June 2 to 30, and Allan's men were dispersed within hours (possibly an hour) of being sighted by British troops, who had been called to the region by an escaped prisoner of Allan's. In the case of both campaigns, the desires of two cartoonish buffoons to see their home colony join the Revolution led to abject failure. While, as stated, areas such as Cumberland and the St. John River Valley were hotbeds of rebellion in Nova Scotia, the European population of these regions was in the dozens or low hundreds, including women and children, and not all were Patriots. When push came to shove, those residents who espoused the Patriot cause chose their homes and livelihoods over republican sentiment, and nothing more was made of Nova Scotia's revolutionary potential.