If you're interested in reading more, I recommend (and cite) Bureaucracy of Repression: The Iraqi Government in Its Own Words. It's not an uncritical source but it does convey the Iraqi government's own self-conception, including of its security apparatus.
The idea that the Ba'athist secret police descended from a British colonial institution is wrong. The British colonial authorities and their local king had no equivalent in the Kingdom of Iraq. The Iraqi secret police instead took their inspiration more directly from Communism and native Arab ideologies (which had some Fascist influence). Ba'athism is a totalitarian ideology. Whether you consider Ba'athism socialist or fascist, it definitely copied certain institutions from the Soviet Union as a successful examples of totalitarianism. And that is where it found its model of a powerful and oppressive secret police meant to enforce both ideological control and government authority.
So while the article you mentioned is correct that all of this was basically oriented towards what we would now call regime preservation, secret police were not a part of this.
Edit: Also worth noting, as Makiya does in Republic of Fear that in re-inventing the Secret Police, Saddam didn't rely on a British model but instead turned directly to his contemporaries in the Soviet Union and the KGB.
This book describes the actual creation of Saddam's secret police, not as an extension of British institutions, but as the product of the particularly vicious, sadistic, paranoid, even psychopathic Baath Party and of Saddam Hussein himself. The all-pervasive nature of Saddam's secret police and their informant network is well attested in the memoirs and anecdotes of almost everyone I've ever come across who had to live under Saddam's regime. While every Arab country has a mukhabarat or domestic/secret intelligence service, even in a region known for being torturous and invasive, Saddam's Iraq has a unique representation for repressiveness.
I've been reading a bit about colonialism in the Middle East for University work and found a source which briefly mentions Saddam Hussein's "secret police" as an example of a security institution with its roots in a security institution that would have been established by Britain under colonial rule. But the claim isn't sourced or very detailed and I can't find further explanation on it.