The forgotten war… the US supplying Saudi Arabia in its proxy war against Iran, with Yemeni civilians paying the gruesome toll.
Are you aware the Yemeni war started as a civil war when the Iran backed Houthi Militia violated agreements they signed onto and attacked the government of Yemen? If you look at the conflict from where it starts it becomes harder to pin everything on the parties that joined later.
Im not arguing that all sides have not been involved in war crimes as they all have. I am merely stating the 100% accurate and undeniable truth that the Saudis and USA did not start this conflict it was started by the Houthi Militia.
As the Houthi who started this war and have attacked the Saudis directly only represent 35% of the population why would you want them in control? Are you looking for Yemen to be oppressed by a plurality of the population?
Read some of my other comments but the short answer is every western feels for Yemen. But there is nothing we can do that helps the Yemen people.
That is not at all why KSA got involved in the civil war in Yemen. The war starts with the Iranian backed Houthi Militia withdrawing from the coalition government and attacking the military. KSA had treaties with the legitimate government and was drawn into the war. At this point the Houthi Militia have attacked KSA multiple times.
The Houthi Militia started the war. They steal most of the aid KSA lets through. They absolutely are responsible for the deaths of tens of thousands of children. Their slogan is "Allah is Greater, Death to America, Death to Israel, Curse on the Jews, Victory to Islam". While there are no good guys fighting in this conflict the Houthi are the most responsible for the conflict having started it.
Can we all take a second to remember this was the Yemeni Civil War and that the Houthi Militia started it and they steal most of the aid? It seems like too many people just want yo blame the guys who got drawn into the war and do not include those that started the civil war. Everyone fighting in this is an asshole and we should not overlook the sides that started the war.
The first reports coming from various news channels at the start of the war should have told you everything. European, white and blue-eyed people are more valuable than every massacred brown children, and no company will boycott the US or Saudi Arabia for it.