This is not true. It’s not specifically about the oil, it has more to do with the hegemony and the involvement of the US government in the global switch to paper based currency after ww2. In the late 60s the US was the country with the highest gold reserves and was owned a huge amount of gold by basically every major country on earth. It also helped that the US dollar had replaced the British pound as the global currency.
The world stopped using gold as its reserve currency back during the Nixon Administration, so now all world currencies are backed by the US dollar. Since the US dollar is the only dollar you can buy oil in, and our current capitalist economy basically runs on oil, the US dollar, and therefore all world currencies, are technically backed by the ability to purchase oil.
Now, a few times in the past, countries have tried to either sell oil for gold, make a new currency backed by gold, or sell oil for a non us dollar backed currency.
Oil companies do not have physical gold on deposit to justify their currencies on the international market. They have no currencies to justify. What does the oil company want with a pile of gold? If they wanted to hold their money in gold they would have used received currency to buy it before.
And yes, "buying with gold" means shipping gold around. Not with slips of paper with "good for gold" written on them. This is why you generally don't buy stuff with gold. Too much work.
Ghana is a gold producer. They aren't spending down their reserves, they will be using produced gold. Or even if you think of it as using reserve gold, it'll still result in their deposited gold in NYC (or whatever) depleting while it piles up in Ghana. If having gold in Ghana was as useful as a currency valuation reserve they would have done it that way before. It's not. So they will have to move gold to correct for this imbalance. Same as just using the produced gold in the first place.
Which way is the price of gold likely to go if this happens? Won’t establishing a direct relationship between weight of gold per barrel of crude reimpose the gold standard?