It's the non partisan polls that people should pay attention to. There have been too many right leaning pollsters just putting out poll after poll of Republicans in the lead only for a non partisan poll to come out showing the Democrats in the lead.
But non partisan pollsters do a better job of following George Gallop's quota system unlike right leaning pollsters. An example of this is Insider Average(?) a right leaning pollster did a poll of PA after the debate that showed Oz up by three, the problem is that only fourteen percent of respondents were young people who made up twenty-five percent of the electorate in 2018 and twenty-eight percent in 2020 in PA, and it didn't have enough black respondents as well.
Yes, because you want to make sure your team wins. If people see their guy down by five or six, people might not see the point in voting for a candidate that they don't think can win anyways.
Seriously, if even 5% of this sub got 1 person to vote, who otherwise wouldn’t have voted, then that’s over 400,000 votes, which is crazy.
Never trust the polls Some of us like to answer the questions that give the sense the right is surging and then vote all blue Their heads explode when they lose!
Imo even the non partisan polls are not great, and the issue is poling is becoming a lot more difficult (or not having biased polls). In the past, you could opened a phone book and randomly called people, everyone had a landline and 95% would have responded since there was no way (or a very limited way) of knowing who was calling. Having long phone conversations was a usual part of life, so you could conduct detailed surveys and a series of follow up surveys.
There was a twitter post about this saying it is more difficult to survey young people because they tend to not like sharing their opinions with strangers even when they are upset and use other means to express them (such as social media). Older people on the other hand are more open to being reactionary on surveys.
Like you pointed, I also think polls became more "reactionary", in that they tend to capture people who want their opinions to be heard.
To guarantee your effort(s) have an impact, try to get help or encourage someone you know well to vote. There might be a young person you are close to that may not plan on voting, if you’re voting in person, try to get them to vote with you.
Spread the word around the sub to not only vote, but the idea of getting 1 other person you know to vote or vote with you in person.