How much did Lollardy shape the English reformation? Also, (appreciate this is a rather large question) how significant was the English Reformation from a doctrinal point of view?
The Reformation in England, initially at least, was more political than theological. The primary change under Henry VIII was replacing the pope with the king as the head of the church. It was only later, during the reigns of Edward VI and Elizabeth I, that the new Church of England became more closely aligned theologically with the Protestant churches. For example, Henry's church continued to teach transubstantiation, which had been rejected by the Lollards. It was not until 1563, more than 15 years after Henry's death, that the doctrine was declared to be "repugnant to the plain words of scripture.".
Probably not much, at least directly. The teachings of the Lollards (Wycliffe and his followers and successors) were denounced as heretical in the 1370s. Wycliffe died saying mass in his pulpit in 1384, but in 1415 he was condemned as a heretic and posthumously excommunicated. His bones were exhumed, burned and scattered into the river. Lollardy went underground. Members of the sect who were found in England were burned. A man was sentenced to death as late as May 1532 for professing Lollard beliefs, though he was killed by a spectator before the fire could kill him. For context, the Submission of the Clergy began in April 1532, the first major step in the English Reformation.
There were religious dissidents in England before the 1520s, when Henry VIII first asked the pope for an annulment. The Lollards, followers of John Wycliffe, were the most significant. But, as I briefly address in another comment, it does not appear that Henry, Thomas Cromwell (his chief minister) or Thomas Cranmer (Archbishop of Canterbury) were directly inspired or influenced by Lollardy. The Reformation as it had begun in Germany likewise was not firmly established in England by that time. Henry, his ministers, and Parliament were certainly aware of the developments in Germany; Henry was given the title "Defender of the Faith" by the pope for his forceful denunciation of Lutheranism in 1521. The decision to break with Rome a decade later was one of political expediency, not theological conviction.