Think of it like a car accident. Even if it is 100% the other driver's fault, you both need to open claims and let the insurance companies duke it out.
Since you have already opened up your own claim, you should mostly be dealing with your own adjuster. Contact your adjuster (via email) to get a breakdown of what has been requested from the other adjusters, and what is still needed. If one of the adjusters has denied coverage, all parties should be informed immediately. If not, then they each have limited time frames to respond to eachothers' inquiries.
The way it typicaly works out is that you have 2 insurance policies: your personal policy and your HOA policy. Your neighbor also has 2 insurance policies: their personal policy and your shared HOA policy. Both of you pay into the HOA policy so both of you have equal rights to receive the benifits under that HOA policy. Each of these policies will have some overlap in coverage, reguardless of responsibility, but usualy the HOA policy is the only one with liability, which would cover a second or third party's property if the damage is the fault of an insured party.
My insurance company did not tell me it's their responsibility, the HOA's own master policy explicitly says it's their responsibility in this situation.
fyi, insurance coverage is not the same as legal responsibility. Your insurance company cannot tell you what is your responsibility vs the HOA's responsibility. With insurance, you have to open a claim to allow the adjusters investigate coverage. If you have not done so yet, both you and the upstairs neighbor need to open claims on your HO6 or similar personal property insurance and give the adjuster the conact and claim number for the claim on the HOA policy.
But your homeowners insurance only covers your walls in, not anything under HOA or your neighbors responsibility. In practice for very small repairs like a like in a pipe the insurance doesn't really care if a pipe in your wall is your responsibility or the HOA, it is faster/easier for them to just fix it so they can be done with the case. But you(or the upstairs neighbor) may need to pay a plumber out of pocket to fix the leak if that is part of the common area, so the walls can be fixed and painted if you don't want to wait for the HOA. You could ask for reimbursement from the HOA for these repairs.
You could also keep in contact with the HOA on the status of the repairs. But it is normal for it to take several weeks for the HOA to get bids and approve a repair. The HOA master insurance may not cover this if the repairs are under the deductible, often these deductibles are very large. Many HOA master policies only cover common areas.