Wow a cop doesn't like that non-cops have more freedom to own guns, what a fucking surprise. I'm sure you are totally upset that many of the gun control laws in various states specifically exempt law enforcement.
As someone who works in law enforcement, it makes me furious how much restrictions the Supreme Court has removed in gun ownership. Stuff like this is the reason why you have more murders from family members. Why are there more murder suicides. Why there are more violent crimes involving a family member. It makes law enforcement job more dangerous too when responding to domestic calls. So much could be done with a simple red flag law, but people care more about guns than human lives.
Exactly. People don't understand this is one of the reasons why our cops are more likely to use lethal force than other countries. Our citizens own more guns than any other country, and we do not know who has a gun and what their mindset is.
For what it’s worth, of the gun owners I know that are 100% opposed to any form of gun law, most of them probably shouldn’t have a gun to begin with if it isn’t already illegal for them to have one. Most of the people I talk to are fully behind laws that make common sense and push education and safety above all else. A common perception that I also agree to is that we don’t need more laws, but that the laws on the books need to actually be enforced. A lot of current laws would actually stop a ton of violence if they were actually properly enforced and upheld- granted it’s a matter of police resources and the mess of the judicial system in general, but it seems like they’d sooner pass a new law instead of sitting down and actually looking at what’s there.
When someone reaches a point later when they’ve shown maturity of action and mindset, I wouldn’t draw as much issue with a former domestic violence perpetrator exercising the 2A right. This goes for felons too, if someone went to prison for drugs or a property crime etc. 25 years ago but has been a productive citizen since? I don’t draw issue with them owning a firearm so long as there’s no indication they’ll return to crime. Some guy or gal who stalked an ex 20 years ago but had nothing to do with them since? Ditto. Letting someone with an active restraining order have a gun is a very bad idea. Perhaps there’s something that should be done to allow appeals on the matter or some clarification on the preservation of their property while the matter is being resolved, but generally speaking the law is there to protect people (often women.).
Right. And if you look at the last two amendments out of ten, it's a ratified reminder that the Constitution is not a Magna Carta, literally because those debating the Bill of Rights were worried that people would make exactly the error you're making. They went out of their way to try to stop you from making that error, but unfortunately, in order to work, it still does require that you both read and understand the entire Bill of Rights at a minimum. Ideally, you'd also have a decent civics education.