If we're going to drop a contemporary Roman Catholic into the fourth or fifth century, I assume we'd like to drop him somewhere analogously Christian. Let's call it Rome? This works not just because there were Roman Christians in Rome (although I don't believe that they were particularly attached to the moniker "Catholic" yet), but because we've got plenty of sources for the Roman liturgy during this period.
I. The liturgical experience of lay Christians in the Roman sphere was defined by the figure of the Roman pontiff, and here contemporary Catholics might find some things similar, and some different, to their own liturgical experiences.
On the other hand, all of these people would find commonality when it came to the veneration of the saints, the general shape of the ecclesiastical hierarchy, the importance of the Eucharist, the concept (if not the institutions) of monasticism, and various aspects of the liturgy and theology which have been touched on by other commenters.
Beyond that, one could also go further and argue about the similarities to be found in the structure of the Church, the primacy of the Pope of Rome, Apostolic Tradition, and so on, but that'd both belabor the point and cleave rather more directly to a Catholic historiography, something which I do want to avoid in the interest of impartiality.
Before I go any further, though, a quick disclaimer — while I'll try to keep the potentially contentious components to a minimum, this is obviously a topic that reaches to the foundations of many extant branches of Christianity, so e.g. a Baptist theologian would likely portray a markedly different (and less Catholic-proximate) image of how the "original Christians" would have worshipped.
Since then, at least in the Catholic view, nothing _fundamental_ has changed in Catholic doctrine: things have been clarified and cemented, but the fundamental _Deposit of Faith_ has not been altered. Such 'cemented' doctrines include the Immaculate Conception of Mary and that of Papal Primacy, both of which the Church supported via references to sources from the 1st-4th centuries A.D.; as such, while they would not have been doctrine during the timespan you mentioned, they would likely not have been considered entirely irregular, either.
On the topic of this period, the post-Constantinian but pre-Carolingian years are sort of a golden period for a certain generation of liturgical scholars who see it as the apogée of Christian worship, so a whole lot of ink has been spilt on this topic. This assumption informed the Catholic liturgical reforms of the 1960s-70s, so I'm sure that some liturgists would insist that a contemporary Catholic would recognize all sorts of things from the late antique/early medieval Latin liturgy. However, these scholars typically approached the liturgy from a pretty theological perspective, and have been more concerned with the perspectives of the Church Fathers or other important theologians than with the lived experience of Christian worshippers. Dom Gregory Dix's The Shape of the Liturgy is probably the best exemplar of this sort of work. The emphasis on clerical elites' perspectives makes sense - educated churchmen are by and large the people who have left us written sources, and on a certain level you have to work with what you've got. Other scholars have given more attention to the lay experience, especially in recent years. Susan Harvey has worked a lot on early Syriac Christian practice, especially women's practices; Teresa Berger has focused on female liturgical praxis as well. However, it should be noted that a lot of the scholarly interest in lay Christian practice focuses on the first centuries of Christianity, before the presumed clericalization of worship, which places this work a little bit before the timeframe you're asking about. My own work is in later medieval religious practice, which is a burgeoning field, but let's keep it within the centuries straddling the late antique and early medieval periods - a slight adjustment of your stated timeframe, which I hope you don't mind.