Yeah but in Brazil the insurrectionists are going to shake hands with their friends and brothers in the federal police. The feds were part of the plan to meddle with the election. It’s far right terrorists trying to convince far right terrorists to join them.
There are extremists - people that do genuinely want to hurt and kill people. There are ignorant people who have philosophical ideas and beliefs that might share and or overlap with extremists that don't want to hurt or kill people but might if they are given the impression they are under threat. There are people who have philosophical ideas and beliefs that might share and or overlap with extremists and those who are ignorant who don't want to hurt and or kill people and won't no matter what nonsense any group tries to spin. There are people who generally don't adhere to any of those beliefs and or philosophical ideas that just want to be left out and or alone. There are people who are familiar with the plight of the marginalized and or victimized that might fit within the first category of sharing beliefs and ideas of the extremists and the ignorant and due to their proximity, familiarity or awareness of those victimized and or marginalized, defend those groups. There are victims, marginalized and vulnerable who just want to be left alone and don't want to be involved. There are those who are victims, marginalized and vulnerable who actively fight for their rights and the rights of others. There are those who are victims and or marginalized who feel angry and want justice and there are those among them who not only want justice but they want to destroy the institutions that they feel victimize them, institutions that are important to those who's identity depends on them - like religious institutions. Among the religious there are all of the above. Among non-religious there are all of the above and this list is by no means exhaustive, just a brief explanation of how complex this population is.
I don't know what the answer is. We are dealing with 300 million people with different ideas, perspectives, beliefs - none of it is as binary as people want to believe. That won't mean much to someone who might be murdered for being trans. For them - it very much is "People that want to kill me vs people who don't" but that perception implies that you either agree with everything in the LGBT discourse thus you don't want to murder them and people who don't (Religious, TERFS etc) who do want to murder them. I don't think that's an accurate reflection of the population and the danger as I see it is that extremists WANT those binary battle lines drawn - they want people to feel like their institutions are under threat and the only hope is to destroy their enemies if they want to protect their identities.
We've seen talk of civil war, Helter skelter, culture war bullshit since forever, but stranger things have happened throughout history and we continue to show nothing but complacency and continue to focus on relatively small scale issues in the face of a legal, military and law enforcement that has everything it could ever need to turn this country into a literal hell on Earth, with technology capable of enforcing it.