Five capital ships were sunk at sea by aircraft during WWII (plus a sixth which had been heavily damaged in a surface action beforehand). The first pair were the British battleship Prince of Wales and battlecruiser Repulse, sunk by Japanese aircraft off the coast of Malaysia on the 10th December 1941. The Japanese battleship Hiei was sunk by aircraft off Guadalcanal on the 13th November 1942, following a night action where she had been heavily damaged by American cruisers and destroyers. On the 9th September 1943, a German aircraft sank the Italian battleship Roma with a guided bomb. The Japanese sisters Yamato and Musashi would be the final pair to be sunk; Musashi during the October 1944 Battle of Leyte Gulf, and Yamato en route to Okinawa in April 1945. Many more battleships were heavily damaged by aircraft at sea. Warspite, for example, was heavily damaged by a glide bomb off Salerno in September 1943; this damage was never fully repaired. While Bismarck was never in any danger of sinking from the torpedo hit from Ark Royal's Swordfish, the rudder damage it caused enabled British battleships to catch and sink her. Finally, it should be noted that, until aircraft were available, it was almost impossible to attack a fleet in port with battleships; submarines, mines, shore batteries and torpedo boats made it far too dangerous. Aircraft, which could be launched from outside the reach of fixed or short-ranged defensive tools like these, could easily attack a fleet in port. As such, sinkings of battleships in harbour are still emblematic of the vulnerability of battleships to aircraft.
So looking at these case studies, we can see that, while durable, battleships were still incredibly vulnerable to air attack and practically helpless when attacked without friendly air cover. They rarely were in a position to fire upon enemy surface ships when these attacks came, and only once - at the Battle off Samar - did battleships manage to engage carriers in a surface action. Meanwhile, well-designed carriers were proving to be similarly durable to battleships (just look at how much damage Enterprise or Yorktown weathered), all while having significantly more effective weapons - their aircraft.
WWII-era battleships were so expensive that they had to not just be survivable and effective, they had to be utterly dominant in order to be worth the effort. Iowa-class battleships were significantly more expensive than even Essex-class carriers, for example, so they had to be worth it. However, experience showed that they were not, which is why they were considered obsolete by the end of WWII. The presence or absence of a fleet carrier in a WWII naval battle could easily completely alter the outcome, nature, and even the stakes of that battle. That was certainly the case throughout the Pacific War, where the major naval engagements were those where fleet carriers tangled with one another (or in the case of the Battle of Okinawa where US fleet carriers supported a ground invasion vs. a Japanese Navy that had been largely depleted of its air arm and carriers through attrition). Very rarely was the singular presence of a battleship a deciding factor in WWII naval engagements, and in many cases battleships ended up in primarily defense postures throughout the war.
Although the question specifically asks about battleships, wouldn't a discussion of lost aircraft carriers further drive home the point of air superiority on the seas? After the vulnerabilities of battleships were exposed and aircraft carriers became the sea's dominant warship, in turn they became targets, and further demonstrated the effectiveness of aircraft over large guns on the sea.
The problem with a large 'arsenal ship' armed with a large number of missiles is that you're putting all your eggs in one basket; if your ship is lost to a submarine torpedo or an air attack, then you've lost a large amount of your fleet's firepower. The Kirovs have a different motivation. To destroy an American carrier group from outside the effective range of its air group, you need a fast, long-ranged missile with a large warhead - in other words, a very large missile. To carry enough of these to be certain of destroying the carrier group requires a large ship. Other countries, in different strategic situations, do not need this capability, and so don't need to build such large ships. The USN, for example, focused its cruisers on protecting its carriers against air and submarine threats, relying on the carrier's aircraft to hit surface targets.
WWII made these things abundantly clear, and battleships were largely re-purposed for other roles: aircraft defense and shore bombardment (or protection). These roles were in no way sufficient to justify their vast expense, but in making use of resources having already been spent they were mostly worthwhile (at least through WWII, afterward it became much less tenable). It's noteworthy that every battleship that made it into service in the US, UK, Japanese, and German fleets was laid down before the battle of Pearl Harbor, and many plans for additional battleships were curtailed when it became clear they were not the world-beaters they were originally imagined to be.
The imagined role for battleships prior to WWII was that they would chew through enemy naval forces at great range while engaging in slugging matches with opposing battleships until whoever had the advantage of firepower, armor, or luck won the day. You could think of battleships as vessels designed to achieve "sea superiority" the way "air superiority" would become important later. With "sea superiority" your naval forces could interdict enemy commerce and logistical shipping with impunity, and would themselves be advantaged in being able to operate its own commerce and logistical transport unmolested. Largely this fantasy never materialized (with only a few engagements resembling it during the entire war), due to a variety of innovations the most important of which was certainly the airplane and aircraft carriers. Even with radar a battleship does not have the range of visibility that naval aviation provides. Even with the largest guns and the most sophisticated fire control systems a battleship could only engage at ranges of up to 40km, barely over a tenth of the range of the aircraft of a carrier. A battleship could not hope to dictate the terms of engagement to a fleet carrier, and it had no chance of forcing an outcome in a battle, the best it could do was hope for survival, a hope that was all too often just as unrealistic as the sea superiority fantasies of earlier eras.