IANAL - what concerns me the most from reading this is that the nurse quickly made the assumption he did not have a concussion, even after he vomited, and from your description was showing other clear symptoms of a serious concussion. Head trauma followed by nausea/vomiting should be taken extremely seriously, whether or not the patient was feeling well before the injury occurred. I wouldn't assume there's any way to prove damages here, since you all did the right thing and took him to the ER regardless, but that situation was certainly mishandled by the school nurse, and needs to be addressed by the school so that it does not happen again.
The problem is that you won’t have any discernible damages because you (rightly) ignored the school nurse’s advice and went to the ER. The only clearly negligent action that the school took was their insistence to you that it wasn’t a concussion. If the school HAD been able to convince you not to seek further medical care and your son had any long-term effects, then those effects (and the cost of the treatments for them) would potentially be due to the school’s negligence (ie them telling you not to seek further medical care). But because you did everything right and sought immediate treatment, any long-term consequences are likely due to the initial injury and not the school’s following negligence (their attempt to dissuade you from seeking medical treatment).
And at the very least, even if you don’t end up suing, you should probably be able to insist that the school revamp their student injury/illness protocols, which clearly need a lot of work. An attorney should be able to help you make that demand and ensure that the district follows through.
Of course, there’s no harm in consulting with a PI attorney in your area, especially if you have one in your friend group who’s willing to go through your case thoroughly with minimal or zero fees.
I think the previous commenter is saying that the SCHOOL nurse tried to convince you that it wasn’t a concussion (we all clearly recognize that it was)….
OP edit the post to add this cause the way it reads is the hospital says no concussion making the nurse sound right.. This will affect how people will respond.