Hi, I’ll take a stab at giving a relatively short explanation that tries to get to the root of the problem. While people often make the mistake of thinking the Israel Palestinian conflict is ancient, you don’t have to go back thousands of years to understand it, but you do have to go back over 100, to the late 1800s in Europe to really understand the origins of the Israeli Palestinian conflict. In this time period, the majority of the world’s Jewish population lives in Europe. While in lots of parts of Europe Jews are integrated into society and relatively successful, basically everywhere they are seen as the default “other” in Europe—the question of if Jews can really be part of a modern nation-state (IE can Jews really be French, or Polish) is an active debate across the continent, so much so that “the Jewish question” is a common phrase, a shorthand used to express this uncertainty over how Jews can possibly fit into European states. In some parts of Europe, this debate is mostly “intellectual” and in other parts, its active violence, but all over Europe Jews face exclusion, discrimination, and an uncertain future.
But how squarely can we place the blame on Israel for reproducing the European system of oppression when non-Jewish European states were also primary actors throughout the entire process?
Like so many Europeans he had no conception that the native population of Palestine merited the same sort of freedom and control over their destiny as Jews did.
What if he \[Herzl\] believed Jewish and Palestinian density were not mutually exclusive? It’s a fair question, and I think this is absolutely what he did believe, in his final work before his death Altneuland, Herzl describes an incredibly advanced "new society" which offers incredible benefits for both Jews and Arabs.
This is a point I am curious about, while I understood that Herzl himself understood it in those terms, how universally was the creation of Israel understood to be a colonial project? By which I mean did Jewish settlers in the Levant think of themselves as similar to Dutch settlers in southern Africa or British in Kenya (or, for that matter, the reverse)? I understand the perspective of seeing Israel as being within the patterns of European colonization but I am curious how it was viewed at the time.
I'm not sure yet how this changes my understanding of the conflict, mostly I've been reading about the Jews of Salonica, so I need to read more about the population in Palestine, but you're absolutely right to point this out, and I hope to have a better answer soon!
Unfortunately I mostly know academic sources, and really only histories of Zionism (I've read works of course about Palestinian history, but I really think there are better people to reccomend those works).
One exception to both the above qualifications is the book Side by Side: Parallel Histories of Israel-Palestine, which does a great job of telling both the Zionist and Palestinian narratives of the conflict literaraly "side by side" with opposite pages telling each narrative.
Alan Dowty's Arabs and Jews in Ottoman Palestine: Two Worlds Collide is a wonderful, and very readable book which I think does a great job of setting the state for the conflict.
Hillel Cohen's Year Zero of the Arab-Israeli Conflict 1929is also very popular, though I find his way of writing (the book is non linear) very confusing.
In basing the conflict in the earliest days of Zionist settlement I drew heavily on Alan Dowty's "Arab and Jews in Ottoman Palestine; Two Worlds Collide." A similar argument is made (and with my opinion better evidence) in Liora Halperin's forthcoming work "The Oldest Gaurd" but unfortunately that's still in review.in rooting Zionist thinking in European forms of thought I used Derrick Penslar's "Zionism and Technocracy." However, Penslar's later work does an even better job of connecting Zionist thought to Fin De Siecle Europe (I happened to be working with that book at the moment for my own work so just used it).While I didn't consult it at the time of writing, on reflection I think the debates in Colonialism and the Jews (the four articles on the section on Zionism) were also instrumental in my thinking. In addition, I consulted Anita Shapira's "Land and Power" Benny Morris's "Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Conflict" as well as Etan Bloom's dissertation on Arthur Rupin's involvement in the Eugenics movement.
As for academic books that focus on Zionist history: Benny Morris's Birth of the Palestinian Refugee Problem, and his book 1948 are both classics. In his latter year's he's gone a little off the deep end, but his works of history are still very good.