Wait a minute, so if men were wearing wigs in public, caps in private, and (presumably) hats at various events in between, was there any point in day when they weren't wearing something on their head?
By the end of the century, when men tended to wear them as replacements for wigs rather than hats, it was more common for men's caps to be made of a colored fabric and embroidered with larger motifs.
One thing we do know, however, is that men didn't typically wear wigs at all times. When relaxing or going to bed, men customarily removed them and replaced them with embroidered caps . These caps actually predated the fashion of wigs - they were worn as replacements for hats during the sixteenth century as well.
A wig was a marker of status and prestige, and by the late 17th century it was an essential part of men's formal dress. By the mid-18th century, most men bar the poorest, and a few holdouts who preferred their own hair, wore wigs, at least for formal occasions if not every day. The deliberate artificiality of Louis XIV's court at Versailles, and the importance of dress and deportment in demarcating social hierarchy, meant that the King was no more likely to go without his wig in public, than without his shirt or shoes. This claims that only the King's barber was permitted to see him without a wig on - despite the fact that his daily dressing and undressing (the lever and coucher) were ritual events attended by favoured courtiers.
There were precedents for men appearing without their wig in a public setting, as those with the means to have their portraits painted could choose to appear in a soft cap or turban covering the head, or even with the hair short and natural, usually worn with a robe or dressing gown. However, this mode signified informality and scholarship, and would not have been appropriate for the image of kingly grandeur which Louis wished to project. It's something you find in Sir Godfrey Kneller's portraits of people like and the philosopher \- not a royal image.