I've enjoyed the Pillars if the Earth's, the game and the book based on the game, perspective on medieval religion. I don't know how "accurate" it is, but it feels grounded. Philip the monk has a a strong theological knowledge, but doesn't quite understand the workings of the outside world. Tom thinks of God as transactional. If Tom builds a cathedral then God will give Tom what he wants. William is an evil, little basterd and knows it so he has an extreme fear of what happens after death. Philip's brother is a noble's clerk, and because of his upbringing in a monastery thinks that the game of politics is a tool to bring about God's world despite all the messy, immoral aspects of politics. It's a nice refreshing take compared to the idealized, clean, Victorian view of medieval society.
I have noticed this too, that conservative/liberal dichotomy being presented in a medieval setting. The fairly recent game, A Plague Tale, has very strong themes of this. Stories set in medieval times tend to have many tenants of the "dark age" myth. The settings tend to be less colorful and have an all-around gloomy feel to them (like the setting of the North in Game of Thrones).
And many medieval stories in popular media are loaded with these cookie-cutter characters who often have roles. I could wager money that the clerical figure in most contemporary medieval film is the corrupt and/or superstitious character. And the king is often portrayed as a tyrant or an incompetent, entitled "pretty boy" because of our modern anti-royal culture. Monarchs of this era are often unjustly stylized as egotistical absolutists of the Early-Modern period. Never mind the fact that so many of our legal traditions of common law are founded in the oligarchical nature of the Medieval era (especially Angevin England).
I believe this to be a development of the myth of the Renaissance: the idea that modernity started with the Italian Renaissance (logic, reason, secularism, and the scientific method. The rejection of superstition, ignorance, and backwards feudal ideas, etc). This myth is where we get the very words middle ages: the bridge between a romanticized idea of antiquity and its "rebirth" in modernity (so many historians who subscribe to this myth don't understand Hellenistic Polytheism either, Romans were very superstitious).