The Tokugawa Shogunate of that preceded the Meiji Restoration was nominally Buddhist, and even major Shinto rites frequently involved Buddhist priests leading pilgrimages or undertaking austerities related to the events.(Hardacre 13). Most important to understand is that the term Shinto wasn't really used in ordinary speech. It became a category for the practices of different shrines during the late Shogunate and the institution of Kokugaku, often translated as National Study or National Learning. The Kokugaku movement sought to create a unified Japanese identity in a way similar to the use of folklore to create a unified German identity in the 19th century(see Cultural Nationalism: The Grimm Brothers' Fairy Tales by Louis L. Snyder). Part of this was a distinction between Buddhist rites that were seen as related to practices in China and Korea, and rites that were distinctive to Japan, which were categorized as Shinto.
Part of this question is a matter of understanding some of the details of Shinto practice in Japan, especially before the Meiji Restoration. Shinto before the Meiji Restoration was a distinctly local religion. Shinto priests were not appointed in any standard fashion, but instead were "independent sacerdotal lineages managed by a small number of the largest shrines.(Hardacre 5)." Basically, different communities practiced local rituals and had different standards for what the duties and requirements for the priesthood were. Shinto holidays were highly variable, celebrating seasonal rites for local kami involved different practices and different dates. You would celebrate the harvest at very different times in Kagoshima vs Iwate.
During the Meiji Restoration, the Meiji oligarchy(the emperor was a young teenager during the restoration) sought to remake Japanese society to establish the legitimacy of their government. Part of this was overturning class structures that had been the center of Tokugawa power. The Charter Oath of the new government included five provisions. 2 and 4 are key to understanding the process.
Therein lies a key component to this discussion. Contemporaries at the time were viewing shinto from a religious and non-religious aspect, with the non-religious aspect referred to as "State Shinto." This seems to diverge from the previous quote about a sacrosanct emperor and "heretical" groups.