It's not obvious what you mean by "Klosterflucht." I guess Klosterflucht means leaving the convent to join the revolution. Does Klosterflucht apply to monks too, or just nuns?
While you mention later on that Christine de Pizan is Italian as well as her proto-feminism, you don't explain who Christina Mirabilis is. At first I thought maybe Christina Mirabilis was de Pizan's nickname. Christina Mirabilis seems pretty remarkable herself.
(2) Haha, Christina Mirabilis is definitely not Christine de Pizan! Throwing in random names like that is actually fairly common when reading medieval history, since often the only thing we know about a person is one line in a court records that is their name. In this case, however, "Christina Mirabilis" means "Christina the Astonishing." And...well, "astonishing" is the right word.
By the fifteenth century, a handful of places in the medieval west offered formal opportunities for girls’ education outside convent schools (which were still generally reserved for future nuns). Nuremberg had civic schools that offered basic education for girls, including vernacular (German) literacy; there are also some brief records of parish schools that taught girls and boys from England. Most educational opportunities outside the home for middle-class (and rarely, lower-class) girls, however, were less established. In cities, a woman might host several girls of nearby families for daily instruction--essentially a teacher and students, but without the infrastructure of a “school.” In many cases, the teacher was a singlewoman or widow who had taken up a religious life outside a convent.
Medieval girls and young women had informal opportunities and formal institutions to help them make friends. In hagiographies (special biographies of saints), we hear about the future saint shunning playtime with other girls to go pray in church, or to watch wistfully processions of nuns and beguines passing by their house in a thriving town. Joan of Arc testifies at her trial that she used to go to an iconic tree in her village to dance and sing with other girls (she notes that she sang much more than she danced).