Once the Arab/Islamic empire had conquered this area, they attempted to control it by settling Muslim (at this point, almost exclusively Arabic) populations in new cities that they themselves founded, examples being Baghdad in Iraq and Cairo in Egypt. These new centres thrived because not only were they the military and political centres of the new empire, but they were also on the sort of land that the Arabs were used to living on - they had no trouble attracting soldiers for their armies who knew that service meant a slice of the pie. The Muslim population in this area was necessarily pretty thin - it was a huge area and in the 7th and 8th centuries there just were not that many Muslims, but the effect of this was that if you were an elite person living in that area at that time, and you wanted access to political power, you had to go to those centres. Over time, this Arabicised & Islamicised these countries - a process that took centuries. The fact that these lands stayed safe and prosperous as the heartland of the Arabic Empire between their conquest in the 7th century and the Roman resurgence in the 10th century meant that when the Romans (and later Crusaders) did return to contest the lands south of the Taurus, the area was already strongly majority Islamic.
I am very open to a Persian perspective on this topic. I do not claim that my answer is fully comprehensive - the OP is a complex question that covers 1400 years of history and the interaction between many different societies. I was simply trying to show how Islamicisation did occur in the regions that it did in the early Islamic period, and why the Caucuses was largely unaffected by it.
It answers the question of why they weren't Arabicized by the first caliphates,, but not why the remained Christian when the rest of the region became largely Islamic during / after the Turkic conquests.
The vast majority of the Muslim world today became so through the influence of the aforementioned Persianate societies, why would the Caucasus be any different? If anything this answer should focus on the "failure" of the Persianate societies who had far more longevity, rather than the initial Arab dynasties, to reach the Caucasus in it's cultural spread of Islam.
The fact that there were Persian traders in South East Asia and that they were important in the spread of Islam there is not the same thing as saying that the vast majority of the Muslim world today became so through the influence of the aforementioned Persianate societies. There were also Arab traders there as early as the 8th century. In addition, Africa has about 25% of the world's muslims today - was Persia the prime mover in the Islamicisation there? If so, that's very interesting to me as I have never heard of this, and I would be very interested in being educated on it.
I think this is a really interesting question and an important one. My instinct would be the factors that you identified but I don't feel qualified to answer, maybe another contributer can help us out.