There was meaningful support among the elite of 1860-era Great Britain, particularly at the beginning of the war, that the secession of the Confederate States would lead to emancipation faster than a restoration of the Union. Within the senior ranks of the government, examples of individuals that held this view include: Lord Russell (the foreign secretary), William Gladstone (chancellor of the exchequer), and the Duke of Argyll (lord of the privy seal). Prominent academics (for example, John Stuart Mill) expressed similar ideas, and The Economist cites Mill in that 1862 article I mentioned above. Even the British and Foreign Anti-Slavery Society made this argument. There were several different rationales for this opinion.
It would be difficult to convince a preserved Union that guaranteed the continued existence of slavery to change course on the Peculiar Institution. It was bad enough during the ante bellum period when the north acquiesced to slavery, now both the north and south would be actively united to keep the institution of slavery intact. On the other hand, an independent Confederacy would be significantly weaker and more susceptible to British demands for some form of emancipation.
(1) An independent Confederate States of America will be less able to ignore British demands for emancipation than a unified United States of America. Meanwhile, a restored Union will need to support slavery in order to bring the rebel states back into the fold.
Ultimately, then, the only way to "save the Union" was to give in to southern demands on slavery. Given Lincoln's continuing claims that he intended to preserve the Union, then that must mean Lincoln would eventually come to an agreement with the southern states on slavery. Thus, instead of weak slaveholding Confederacy, the world would need to deal with a strong slaveholding United States.
(2) An independent Confederate States of America could no longer depend upon the Fugitive Slave Laws to return runaways to bondage, guaranteeing that the institution of slavery would inevitably fail.
The CSA surely could just as well descend into a destitute state of barbarism that continues slavery so the slaveholders can continue their relative superiority to the slaves.