People can be snide but considering one MP got caught not paying tax in the millions (and some other lady MP before him), the fact the King is more aware and active in the current poor state of the country is... well rather sad and a demonstration how shitty the conservatives are.
This isn't me defending the royals, it's the best of a bad democracy, I'm just making a point that minuscule or not, the Royals shouldn't "appear" to do more for the public than our own government.
Personally (while my own republican sensibilities might make me biased) I struggle to envision a situation where the monarchy is able to be dissolved but still somehow able to keep all the perks of the position. As you correctly state, the crown estate does not belong to Charles (contrary to the claims of more than one Reddit monarchist), so I don't see that there's much more cause for them to keep that than to keep, say, exemption from taxes or whatever. No crown, no crown estate.
It's a public body created by an act of parliament, outside the government and independent of the monarch. It manages assets which are not the private estate of the monarch as an individual, but possessions of the monarch "in right of the crown".
The crown estate is a sole corporation not a public body. It is neither government property nor part of the charles private estate. it belongs to 'the monarch' and automatically passes to the next. There is not a clear answer in legal terms where it would end up if you removed the monarchy.
Obviously, I am not a lawyer and even more obviously there is no legal blueprint or roadmap in place for the dissolution of the monarchy. No one can say for certain what would happen or how it would play out (certain lawyers could make educated guesses at best). But there is really no reason to assume they would just automatically take the crown estate with them if they lost the crown.
Why would the treasury lose the crown estate money if we abolished the monarchy. You don't get to keep the crown when you're deposed; that's the entire point.