Could you explain to me why California CPS who has no jurisdiction on this person or his kid has to interview him and his daughter? Calling and asking him questions is one thing. Calling Arizona to get her file from them is one thing. It is absolutely unacceptable to think they have the right to interview a toddler about a mother she doesn't know and briefly met at birth. And it is absolutely over stepping to call Arizona up to do a visit to try and harass him into cooperating when i'm sure Arizona will happily hand over the records that showed what happened and why her rights were terminated.
Send them a copy of paperwork terminating the mother's rights (yes, I know they know, but bureaucracy likes paperwork) and the contact information for the social worker in Arizona. Reiterate that your daughter has no contact with her biological mother, has not had contact since birth, and will not have any custody/visitation going forward. Then tell them to talk to the social worker in Arizona if they need further information. If they contact you just keep repeating that: sending them a copy of the relevant info and telling them to contact the social worker. (Like literally copy and paste the same short statement each time.) They can't come to your house or do anything anyway without going through social services in your state.
They don't want me to be a placement. Allegedly I'm not qualified for the level of disability care needed. I don't know what that means. I don't know what they meant by that or anything about the infant. I didn't even know the infant existed until they called me. They won't tell me anything for confidentiality reasons. They have said they are required to intervene in my daughter's care due to an open case against her mother. In circumstances like this they say it is mandatory to intervene with all other children. They don't care she doesn't have parental rights. It makes no sense to me at all.
Thank you. Good to know California has no authority. Arizona has no concerns and they have everything from when they vetted me on file, if they show up I'll talk to them but they aren't interested in whatever California is doing.
According to the social worker that I spoke to here in Arizona, California CPS has not been in contact with them at all. He even double checked. I have no idea how California CPS found out about me, but they knew I had been married to my ex-wife and that she had no rights to my daughter. The Arizona social worker said they have heard nothing and just reiterated to me there were no concerns from them about my daughter. They knew nothing about California CPS wanting to intervene with my daughter.
California CPS said they have to intervene with my daughter because it is mandatory once they have an open case on someone to intervene with any of their other children. They were already aware of my ex-wife losing her parental rights but that doesn't negate their intervention. I wasn't even the one to petition for her to lose her parental rights on the first place. Arizona authorities began that process before my involvement.