The impact of this, of course, was that the IJN concerned itself primarily with destroying warships, as sinking or damaging enemy warships would contribute to winning the decisive battle in a way that sinking merchantmen would not. For the IJNs submarines, this manifested in both their design and mission objectives. I go into more detail on the IJN's conceptions of its submarine force and their intended mission , but suffice it to say, the IJN intended its submarines to be engaged with shadowing and attacking the American battlefleet as it moved westward across the Pacific, rather than engaged in warfare against Allied merchant shipping. As such, the wolfpack tactics of the Germans, designed to inflict damage on Allied merchantmen transiting the Atlantic was of little interest to the Japanese. As I mention in the linked post, the IJN was not completely unaware of the importance of anti-submarine warfare. In fact, during World War I, a unit of Japanese destroyers had gone to the Mediterranean to aid the Allies in escorting convoys there. This Japanese force proved very effective at its mission, to the extent that the Royal Navy requested that more Japanese crewed ships be deployed for convoy escort duty. Yet, in the aftermath of that war, IJN leadership war far more interested in the lessons of Jutland and what it meant for their intended large surface engagement against the Americans than in the lessons of anti-submarine warfare in the Mediterranean. The Japanese Naval War College expressed some interest in studying the problems of shipping protection, but these attracted relatively little attention. Focus for academic study of shipping protection fell to the Navy Torpedo School (more concerned with the offensive application of torpedoes) and eventually to the Navy Mine School, which was a far less prestigious and under supported institution. Training was similar, and while the Japanese Navy trained extensively, practically none of this was in anti-submarine warfare or escort duties. This institutional bias meant that in the IJNs preparations for the war, it spent almost no time or effort considering what it would have to do to counteract a sustained campaign against Japanese commerce.
By "underlying flaws of the Japanese merchant protection system", I of course mean that there was effectively no organised system for the protection of the Japanese merchant fleet for much of the war. At the outbreak of the war, responsibility of escorting merchantmen was divided throughout the entire IJN both administratively and operationally. And, of course, the battle focused IJN was loathe to see ships pulled out of Combined Fleet to be used for something like merchant escort duties. It was not until November 1943 that the IJN established "Grand Escort Headquarters", a unified command structure that united all of Japan's escort ships and anti-submarine units into one command. Yet, even then, it was not really an independent command. Less than a year later, in August 1944, Grand Escort Headquarters was placed under Combined Fleet, which subsequently stripped ships from escort duty in order to bulk up the naval units that were to be committed to Sho-Go 1, which would develop into the Battle of the Philippine Sea. It was not until spring 1945 that Grand Escort HQ was granted full independence from Combined Fleet, by which point there was little left to either escort or do the escorting. Administratively, IJN anti-submarine operations were hamstrung from the very beginning of the war and a functional command and control structure for escorting the merchant marine simply did not exist until it was too late to matter.
The Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) rather infamously severely underinvested in commerce protection and anti-submarine warfare, but also had rather strong institutional blinders on that shaped both their perception of and their response to the submarine threat.
To summarise, it was not that the Japanese did not take submarine warfare seriously, it was that the IJNs focus was almost entirely subsumed by the needs of the battlefleet and resources were allocated accordingly. This did not just extent to ship construction efforts, but also to human capital, as the focus of training exercises, training, and doctrine preparation all paid little attention to logistics in general and the needs of anti-submarine warfare in particular. Similarly, Japan's limited industrial base had great difficulty in producing enough effectively equipped ships to fill the need of escorts. The Japanese did, eventually, become aware of the critical situation they faced in the American submarine threat, but their efforts were simply not enough in the face of decades of neglect heaped on anti-submarine forces in the lead up to the war and the limitations of Japanese industrial capability during the war.
It's also worth noting that submarines would have inflicted even disproportionately higher casualties on the Japanese merchant fleet in 1942/43, when they were the only vessels that could operate in waters closer to Japan. As the Navy sailed across the Pacific with ever-growing numbers of ships, it could and did raid Japanese shipping at will. For much of the war, however, it fell to the submariners to degrade Japanese merchant shipping because the carriers and surface ships were conducting amphibious operations or fighting the Japanese Navy. There were certainly many instances where aircraft sank Japanese merchant ships earlier in the war, but you don't want to downplay the importance of the submarine fleet in the strategic balance.
Of course, submarines were important for Allied interdiction of Japanese merchant shipping, but I also seem to remember half of the losses were due to Allied aircraft. Was this addressed in similar capacity or more? They are of course reliant on the infamously inadequate 25mm, did they think it was enough or just not have enough funds, industrial capacity to equip units with better guns?