OK, so this is going to be a complicated one, but just to start, I'm going to push back on your idea that poor whites predominantly live in rural areas, and poor minorities live in inner cities. This was true a few decades ago, but . In raw numbers, suburban poverty is the most common form of poverty in America today. (This violates the 20-year rule, but it's necessary to clear up the misconception.).
First, the federal government invested truly enormous sums into building freeway networks. And new freeways were deliberately routed through minority neighborhoods - Black Bottom in Detroit, Boyle Heights in Los Angeles, the South Bronx in New York City - so white, suburban commuters could drive downtown. Because no one wants to live next to a freeway, and the federal government wasn't investing in those neighborhoods, those who could leave, did - and the white residents decamped en masse for the newly-built, lily-white suburbs, which where also financed by the FHA. Conveniently, these new freeways also made it much, much easier for suburban commuters to get downtown, bypassing all the older city neighborhoods in-between. Minorities and the poor, without the money to leave, ended up in the older city neighborhoods, which is how you get "the inner city" stereotypes.
So I'm going to start by questioning the premise, specifically "poor whites predominantly live in rural areas and poor blacks and poor Latinos predominantly live in inner cities".
So generally speaking, when we are talking about concentrated poverty (communities where large numbers, if not the majority of people, live below the poverty line) we are often talking about rural areas, and those areas have quite a range of racial and ethnic majorities. When we are talking about the majority of people living in poverty, we are talking about people living in urban but increasingly suburban areas, and this also tends to hold true for African Americans and Hispanic Americans as well as whites.
As for historically why the African American population was majority urban in the mid 20th century, and why it saw such a concentration of poverty, that largely is related to the Great Migration of African Americans from the rural South to urban areas across the country, starting circa 1910 and continuing well after World War II. Once African Americans settled in those cities, they often faced redlining and other discriminatory measures that kept them concentrated and in poverty in particular parts of those cities. Frankly these two subjects on a national scale are a bit outside my area of expertise, so I will pass for now in describing them.