Maybe on a macro scale, but I think the individual actors who performed the systematic slaughter of Indian horses and bison had a number emotional justifications. There were constant conflicts between the US and native tribes. Many of the tribes relied on routine raids to acquire livestock and slaves. The Comanches for instance were able to dominate the southern and central plains so aggressively because of their warrior-raiding culture. They were proficient mounted warriors, and easily dispatched and absorbed the other tribes living in that area. They then went on to routinely raid New Mexico to artificially create demand for livestock and horses, so the denizens would be forced to trade with them.
The tragedy of the booming industry of livestock trading among the Indian tribes was its degree of ecological decimation. The growing domesticated herds of horses reduced the frequency of grass feed for bison. Comanches worsened the situation by opening their hunting territories to foreign parties for trading privileges, and the Cheyenne and Arapahoes began hunting bison more aggressively to increase trade with Americans. Bison herds dwindled.
Now some background on the US government's relationship with the Plains tribes. In 1851 a treaty was signed among the tribes with the US government that would allegedly establish "an effective and lasting peace." The treaty affirmed that said land was Indian territory and that the US would work to protect the signing tribes from aggressive white settlers or even other hostile tribes. In exchange, the US would be allowed to build forts and safely have travelers sojourn west without threat of an attack. Unfortunately, the discovery of gold in Indian territory led to an influx of migrants that were violating the territorial claims. The Treaty of Fort Wise in 1861 then limited their territory to less than a tenth of the claim in the original treaty. Tribes began to rebel, people were killed, and a series of conflicts between the US and subjugated Indians ensued.
Was warfare between Native American tribes generally as brutal as warfare between white people and Native Americans? What I am wondering is if there was an impact of the racism of the white settlers on how the Native Americans conducted war with them.
Yes, there was a brutality to Native attacks that the settlers weren't used to, and no doubt this helped to cement the derogatory connotations of the term "savage.".