A landlord has a duty to uphold certain rights. Among those rights include a right to privacy and the right of quiet enjoyment to the property. Under the ancient common law, tenants had exclusive rights to the property, and a landlord was not even entitled to step foot onto the property during the period of the lease. The flip side was that the landlord had no obligations to repair anything on the property. As time and rights have evolved and been modified by statute, landlords have been given increased responsibilities to ensure the habitability of the properties they rent out. That necessarily provides them greater authority in creating regulations over the use of the property. However, their authority is not without limit. Generally, the restrictions must “touch and concern” the property; that is, to have some rational basis to safeguarding a legal duty of the landlord. Restrictions in a lease which exceed the landlords purview likely infringe on the right to quiet enjoyment and would be unenforcible in court.
You should discuss the provision with her and explain that while she is a mother, she is not your mother, and that term is inappropriate in a written lease, and if she does not modify it, you will find a new rental.
That doesn’t mean it makes sense to agree to it, and just trust that the court will protect you later. At best, this is a sign the landlord will be unreasonable about other things, and probably not someone you want to rent from in any case. By agreeing to it in a lease, you create the perception in her mind it will be followed, just setting the stage for a larger conflict later on. And because courts generally find people are able to contract away certain rights, you’re at a disadvantage if you knowingly agreed to it In the lease, even if it does violate a duty of the landlord.
If you sign that agreement and then violate it then the person answering the legal question may wind up being a judge in an eviction hearing. Even if the judge agrees with you it would be expensive and you could wind up with the scarlet letter of having an eviction case against you (hurting you chances of getting another place).