There were no unstoppable heroes; everyone was more or less equally vulnerable and scared. The way ancient battles actually worked would leave no room for any single warrior to do much killing (which wasn't really the point of fighting in a battle anyway). At best, rich warriors would be able to afford better armour, which would somewhat increase their chances of survival, but that was never explicitly connected to their effectiveness in combat.
Needless to say, such heroes didn't really exist. Later Greek authors would write about the rich as particularly bad at fighting, because they lived a life of comfort and were more likely to be fat and unaccustomed to hardship. But by that time the ideal of the unstoppable Akhilleus had been well-established, and it has never lost its grip on our imagination.
When you're reading a story like that of Akhilleus the invincible warrior, you're reading about an ideal. The elite of Homeric society attained its high social status through amassing wealth, but ideologically justified that status through military prowess in the service of their community. More simply put: they were in charge because they were rich, but they wanted people to believe they were in charge because they were better at protecting others. Rule of the rich over the poor sounds like oppression, but guardianship of the strong over the vulnerable sounds like it might make sense in a world as violent as early Greece. So they told stories about themselves as great warriors, unflinchingly brave (and dashingly handsome), who were so much better at fighting than ordinary warriors that not even a whole army could stop them.
Warriors had their role, to be an inspiring/intimidating force, to try to create a gap as a spearhead that could then be exploited. Or even to act as a double padded shock troop in certain cases, deep in the enemy lines, letting themselves be surrounded with their men. Or to be thrown in at the right time to try to break the line if one was held in reserve. They would have companions with them, those they (hopefully) trusted, loyal to them, strong and equipped by the warrior. The warrior having that elite band around him, with as good weapons, armour and horse (helpful to escape if army collapses) and possibly even the personal care of the rulers own doctors may tilt the odds in their favour but an arrow is an arrow. You enter a battle and even though casualties are not often as high as people imagine, you take a risk.
I'm hoping this will add to u/Iphikrates excellent answers by coming at it from a different continent.
Battles hinged on attempts at (limited) coherence, tactics sought to disrupt the enemy and their ability to keep organized, take advantage of confusion and chaos. Also, logistics, quality of defences and time if a siege, terrain, army not getting epidemic. A collapsing army was at risk of heavy casualties and sometimes tens of thousands could be killed or, on an even rarer occasion, an army decimated by events but the tens of thousands were not normal.