Have you considered that the judge was allowing the defendant to dig themselves into a hole? It seems you put a lot of consideration into your complaint and outlined the evidence you would bring. The judge might have taken everything you said as true unless the defendant could present hard evidence to the contrary.
OP said in the comment above that the judge couldn't make a fair judgement without knowing the cost to replace the parts. Replacement and repair costs should have been part of the damages that OP requested and included in the $2,300. So the judge knew the total, including repair and replacement costs, was $2,300 and decided to award $600 for whatever reason.
In my opinion the evidence I had would have supported why suing for $2,300 was appropriate and necessary. Which is why I brought it. Some of the evidence she asked the defendant for is the same evidence I had (but I told her his was missing parts of the contract). In the judges own words she ruled in my favor for $600 because “she thought 600 was fair”. But it basically was just a random number. It didn’t even cover all of the job of the other body shop. Let alone the items taken out of my vehicle.
There was damage, swapped items, and parts taken out of my vehicle. She didn’t look at any of my paperwork or estimates and didn’t ask how much each itemized repair or estimate was. So I’m not sure how she was able to come to the conclusion of $600.
As I stated in other post. I could only afford to put out so much money a second time, so we repaired what we could and got estimates for what I couldn’t afford to fix.
I guess a question is whether you mentioned orally the cost of the second repair shop and the cost of replacement, or are the only mention of that in the evidence you wanted to present. If it was only in the evidence you wanted to present, you should have just said it orally. If the judge disagree with your assessment, then you could have provided the evidence.
You could have offered to show the judge certain evidence. She may have declined if she felt is was unnecessary or irrelevant. The judge had the discretion to ask for evidence, as well. It sounds like she took your claims at face value, wanted to know if the defendant had any evidence, and then determined damages based on that. As another commenter said, you’re not entitled to the entire amount of damages just for winning, the judge also has the discretion to determine an appropriate award. If you’re not happy with that outcome, you may appeal.