So, as I've written in , Bridgerton is not attempting to be an accurate piece of historical fiction. It is an adaptation of a series of Regency romance novels, and Regency romance is a subgenre that is based much more on the fiction of Georgette Heyer than the actual real-world England in the Regency period. While Heyer included a great deal of detail from in-depth research, such as the inclusion of real merchants and establishments like Gunter's Tea Shop, she didn't have the opportunity to take inspiration from the work in social history that was published in the late twentieth century (her heyday was the 1930s-1960s), and so her books contain a lot of subtler errors in terms of how characters relate to each other. Those who followed her in the subgenre have continued these issues, so we see things like - a reasonable assumption in the 1950s, considering contemporary conservative mores and those of the Edwardian era of Heyer's youth, but not actually likely in the 1810s. And to some extent, the people who enjoy the genre know that it's a few generations removed from historical reality! As a result, the show has the freedom to take a lot of liberties (just look at the costuming).
The showrunner, Chris Van Dusen, was aware of this whole business, and deliberately chose to explore the possibility of Charlotte being actually, recognizably, culturally Black (referring to this as "fantasy"). This was incorporated into the script, with Lady Danbury discussing how the marriage of the king of England to a Black woman affected Black people in that country. This created some interesting characterization moments, which I think made it worth it - not to mention the empowering portrayal of the most important and powerful woman in the universe of the show as a self-assured Black woman.
Nobody ever seems to have remarked that Philippa looked distinctly non-European in her lifetime, as far as we can tell. "Brown"/dark does turn up in descriptions of white women in England, historically, in opposition to fair - not all white women have exactly the same shade of skin, and some certainly can have darker olive skin.
But then "brown skin" might not mean the same to a 14th century Englishman who has never seen an African in his life, than to modern English-speakers.
Although this isn't about Queen Charlotte, could I ask about Philippa of Hainult (wife of Edward III)? I've heard that some theorise she had North African ancestry, though as she was from Belgium I don't see why. The description of her does possibly fit though:
Yep, some theorize that about her as well, based on that description. It's led people to try to find an African ancestor for her in Euphrosyne Doukaina Kamatera, a Byzantine empress whose mother is unknown; however, even though she's unknown, she was almost definitely a Byzantine aristocrat. And, as with Charlotte, this would be many generations back (seven or eight, in this case - Euphrosyne -.