He tested two types of leather - hardened 'cuir brulee' shaped as a kind of dish and 5mm thick (a little less than a quart of an inch, for us Americans), a softer 'buff leather' of an unspecified form and thickness, probably flat. The buff leather was penetrated by the simulated blade at 90 joules of energy - less than a pollaxe stroke, signifcantly more than a sword swing. It was penetrated by the simulated arrowhead at only 30 joules - most estimates for English warbows range between 60 and 100 joules of energy (as you can tell, they vary quite a bit!), which is much more. The cuir brulee faired better against a simulated blade - it was defeated at 90 Joules, but was defeated by a simulated lance head at 30 Joules. I have seen some other tests - generally performed live firing bows at targets - but they have other flaws, or haven not been published or peer reviewed.
After the middle ages, in the early modern period, buff leather was used as armour to protect against sword slashes, and based on these tests it would be pretty good at that.
I can think of three uses of leather in armour in the Middle Ages (okay, four if you count coverings for shields):
Byzantine military manuals from the 10th century CE refer to leather armor for horses but that is the only medieval leather armor reference I can think of.
2) Horse Armour - leather bards seem to be have been extremely common at least from the 15th century on, as u/Superplaner noted. Leather bards often looked like bards of plate, but are noted as such in inventories and can be seen in artwork because the pieces are held together by laces (there are also a few survivals).
As with all leather armor it's a little tricky because leather does not survive particularly well but I've seen boiled leather plates from 16th century horse armor and I believe Ffoulkes has a few examples of sketches and prints in The Armourer and His Craft. I even found a on wikipedia of all places of a crupper plats made from boiled leather. The picture is from The Armored Horse in Europe 1480-1620 (Available in through google books) which has more examples of shaffrons, bardings and other pieces of cuir bouilli for horses, primarily from royal records in England. I won't speculate on how common it was since I have little knowledge of the scope but The Armored Horse in Europe alone has records of at least two instances where dozens were ordered at a time so we can at least say with some certainty that it was used.