Historian Karen Powers defines the Pre-Colombian Incan society as "gender parallelism." Powers writes that "Before the Spanish arrival, the peoples of the Andes put together societies that were characterized by gender parallelism and gender complementarity. In gender-parallel societies, women and men operate in two separate, but equivalent spheres, each gender enjoying autonomy in its own sphere. For example, in Inca society, women had their own religious and political organizations with their own female hierarchies of priestesses and officials, as did men in their sphere. Although men and women functioned in separate, gender-specific spheres, their worlds were highly interdependent and were joined together at the apex of the political system through the rule of a paramount lord and his council.".
Sure. I'm referring to the Inca as the tribal group who claim blood kinship at some level with the Sapa Inca and with Manco Capac, the probably mythological and certainly mythologized founder of Cuzco. There is some suggestion that the early Inca may actually have migrated into the Cuzco area from the south and conquered it from locals who they then absorbed into their numbers with a lingering of differentiated status between 'old blood' and 'new blood' that is now wholly lost to us but may have been as important to the Inca at the time as the Plebian/Patrician divide was to Rome.
Absolutely! Whenever I'm asked for sources here about the Inca, I always start with the History of the Conquest of Peru by William H Prescott. I know it is an incredibly antiquated source, but I prefer to think of it as the great-grandfather of Inca history in English. Prescott was nearly blinded by a crust of bread during a food fight at Harvard, but in the end we got an amazing historian out of the terrible accident. He decided his eyesight was too poor to become a lawyer, so he turned to first literature, and then eventually turned to the history of Spain during the time of Fedinand, Isabella, and Philip II, hiring Spanish translators to help him work through mountains of primary documents never before translated into English. This proved especially valuable for work on the Inca, as there are many overlapping and often conflicting primary documents recorded by Spaniards and Spanish-speaking Peruvians in the decades after Pizarro's conquest. Prescott did a masterful job of collating all these different accounts and walking a middle path between the discrepancies. While his book has absolutely no archaeology in it whatsoever, as a monograph written in English bringing together all the different Spanish primary documents available, I believe it to be without rival even today.
I think the best thorough look (that I've heavily summarized) from this perspective is Jeffrey Quilter's The Ancient Central Andes, and perhaps also Jerry Moore's A Prehistory of South America: Ancient Cultural Diversity on the Least Known Continent. Both are well researched, though Quilter is more focused on Peru, Ecuador, and parts of Bolivia and Chile (hence the title); Moore does have sections discussing the Amazon, the Southern Cone, and the north and eastern coasts of the continent, which don't usually get much coverage. If you have specific questions about a site or culture I can provide more reading suggestions I know I rushed this a bit here and there, and omitted my favorite region, coastal Ecuador - but I'm going to step out for the afternoon to enjoy the sunshine in my part of the world.