Edit: But it doesn't look like this is going to lead to anything in the near future. It's a high-risk treatment being used for people with both cancer and HIV.
And if you survive the cure, you'll live a life needing more medications and constant checkups than a person with HIV would.
This will require a lot of extra research and a working cure for AIDS could still be years in the future.
......however, the mechanism which protects patients from the HIV-re-infection does offer some hope as the immunity of the CCR5 gene mutation might be "spliced" into the genes of infected people at a cost which could be affordable on a global scale. It might even be enough to come up with a partial immunity-protection for the immune systems of AIDS-patients to reduce their reliance of "the cocktail" which suppresses the spread of the virus in infected bodies.
While I welcome any person to be cured from a serious medical condition, the cost-benefit ratio for this "treatment" is unfavorable. A bone marrow transplant in Germany (where this treatment was performed) currently costs $228800. This doesn't cover other costs like post-transplant care and medication. If, however, a sufficient number of donors and enough teams of doctors were available, we might cure the suspected 38.4 million people infected with AIDS at a price tag of about 8.7 trillion dollars. However, such a transplant is risky and might kill several thousand people in the process. Still, it's not an impossibly large amount of money when compared to the world GDP of 104 trillion dollars in 2022. The world spent about 2 trillion on defense in 2022 as a comparison.
Unfortunately, since we'd need to train a couple of hundredthousand new doctors and as there probably wouldn't be enough suitable donors, such an effort would be curtailed by the boundaries of reality. The numbers involved are only to illustrate the size of the problem and that this is not a viable "cure" for AIDS.
I think it’s important that it shows that HIV can be cured, and that there is a method to it. Multiple approaches were attempted, and failed. The fact that there is an approach that works opens the door to new research. I doubt we will have a real breakthrough for at least (just guessing) 10 years. But it’s a positive development nevertheless.