This seat may very well go to Palin despite the apparently large lead of Peltola. It will depend on the second choice (and, in some cases, the third choice) votes of people whose first choice was either the independent candidate or the non-Palin Republican candidate.
But back then, there were a few moderately conservative GOP candidates that in some cases were the better choice. That simply is not the case today, and illustrates how far off the rails the GOP is.
I also vote a straight ticket and that's the right move today. At least in my state and local elections, all GOP candidates were maga nuts who needed to be stopped.
Funny....if you would have told me 20+ years ago that you voted a straight ticket, I would have told you that you were politically irresponsible, and that you really should research the candidates much more thoroughly. I would have told you that you were lazy. (Well, I wouldn't have actually said this to you, but I would have thought it.).
Yes. I am aware. My point is that doing so was a stupid shortsighted decision. You don't win by unilaterally disarming yourself. They should have said "we're going to eliminate all Republican seats in CA and the only way you have a chance at getting them back is if you help us sign this piece of legislation that will enforce independent redistricting commissions across the nation. You'll notice we've already signed it. The only thing stopping you from leveling the playing field here is your own desire to retain power in other states" I would like all states to have independent redistricting commissions but that won't happen as long as Republicans realize they can cheat (by gerrymandering) to win and Democrats refuse to do the same.
As a "privileged" Californian, I can't tell you how disgusted I am that your Governor and his Republican cronies created the barriers to voting in your state.
Call your county’s election office tomorrow and share this information and ask them how you can cure it if it’s not pending being accounted for in an unprocessed batch.