I just got off the phone with them. Unfortunately, my renter's insurance doesn’t cover this because it involves dwelling and other structures. I’d be covered if I had homeowners insurance, which my landlord should have but he’s putting the responsibility on me. They advised that I’d continue pushing back against him. I still haven't heard back from the property manager about my proof request either.
I’ve been here for 3 years. I had a roommate until he moved out 6 months ago. All I know about the previous tenant was that she was irresponsible and I’m not sure how long she’s been gone before I moved in.
Unfortunately, I didn't keep track because it was after midnight when they were done. and I just wanted to get enough sleep for my first day at my new job.
I'm not sure if my landlord has insurance. I've actually never spoken to him myself. Property management acts as the middle person between me and the landlord.
I have to ask - is this landlord one of the large residential property management companies?? If so, I am aware that these “investment companies” have a tendency to try and push as much off onto the renters as they can get away with…I know this because I rent from one of those companies, and I’m in contact via social media with other renters who have some serious horror stories of their own.
So I agree that the plumber needs to be put on the spot; but I feel like suing is premature, as (if I am understanding correctly) all the OP has is the landlord’s and/or HOA’s word that the issue is caused by them only. It doesn’t seem like they have this info from the plumber directly. Personally, I would contact the plumbing company and ask nicely for documentation showing the determination of cause. The HOA or landlord might be overstepping and saying this just to get the bill covered, regardless of the plumber’s actual findings.
I would get a lawyer, and don’t pay any of the plumbing bill until either your lawyer tells you to or the plumber/HOA/landlord show proof that your unit alone caused the issue.