Agree completely. I'm coming from the perspective of an employee who worked for a self-insured company. They hired a firm to manage it, but ultimately the cost came from their own pocket. That company had so many free employee programs - stop smoking, weight loss, free fitness trackers, fitness contests with generous prizes, discounts to gyms... oh, and preventative maintenance stuff like vaccines, screenings for common health problems on-site and strongly encouraged. They also had a policy of unlimited sick days. If you did miss a certain number in a row, you needed a doctor's note, but if you were visibly sick and showed up to work, your manager would escort you to the door and you'd get it trouble for not staying home.
Was this company just being generous? Hell no. They were a big sociopathic business like any other, but they crunched the numbers and figured out that doing all of those things saved them gobs of money on the insurance they paid for. The only potential downside (although I never saw it) is that I could envision a situation where less-healthy people get forced out, and you also have an employer now with some access to your medical history, neither of which are ideal.
Now, I will accept that if we moved to full single-payer AND blew up the entire health insurance economy AND spent the 5-10 years to completely restructure the entire industry, THEN MAYBE it would be better, and we'd have the improvement people want.
A single payer system would fix so many things, but it gets pitched as being forced to deal with government sponsored terrible healthcare where what it really mean is everyone gets access to basic services and non basic but necessary advanced care, and if you want you can have private insurance on top of that for very extreme or chronic cases. This way everyone wins. Of course there are those that would see an increase in cost for specialized care in the short term, but the overall benefit to the population would be insane.
The sad part about this is that everyone loses except the umbrella corps that own large hospitals. The fact that you can walk into a hospital and get the price for anything should be the most telling thing about how fucked the entire system is.
It’s already fucked in NJ, even with high tier healthcare, copays are doubling and sometimes triple, new bills show up that used to be covered. This started happening before inflation btw. What garbage-on-legs made these changes?