Seconding what /u/I_like_my_dog_more said, it'd take 24hours or so to generate enough entropy for a decent encryption in SW on even something like a 2GHz quad-core Atom. I'd rather load it into an FPGA (which can be thought of as writing SW into HW which can run much, much faster), but even losing power, unless the FPGA is wiped as a last-gasp, the logic can still be read out, or if protected against 'read' can be read using a scanning electron microscope.
Incorrect. Most hashes start from a seed that isn't random-enough. If I record an encrypted stream of long-enough size and I have the NSA's resources for compute, no algorithm in the world can prevent me from decrypting the stream given wall power and enough time. Good encryption builds the entropy (randomness) over several (like, 10^16) iterations to make this power/time requirement prohibitive to non-governmental actors. I have to certify my products to FIPS-140-3, this is a subject I'm familiar with. There are some Secure Hash Algorithms which are FIPS-certifiable, here's . The wiki article on AES-256 is kind of informative, too, mentioning HW acceleration as instruction sets in various processors. Since the US has the hardware that did the encryption and probably the ROM that the SW resides in (I say this because I believe the receiver for the balloon's flight-management/telecommand was probably 'blinded' by broad-spectrum noise (jammed) from Montanna to it's date with a Sidewinder over SC's coast, and thus was not command-wiped), I think this stream will have been 'broken' and decrypted.
The radios likely have decryption cards/chips that are used for decrypting transmissions on the fly, and the US can eventually use those to eavesdrop on any communications their balloons transmit, and reverse engineer to effectively bypass their encryption schemes. If they are dumb enough to use the same encryption tech on their military vehicles, it could be even worse.
They would likely use encrypted communication, if indeed it is some kind of spy device. So then they'd need to decrypt that; even if it's smply as normal TLS.