To some extent, as it must be added that the Mandate of Heaven was first devised to justify the establishment of the Zhou Dynasty, whose rulers were mere 'kings', and both Confucius and Mencius developed their political philosophies (including, in the latter case, the idea of the 'right to rebel' against an unjust ruler) in a pre-imperial context.
The association of 帝 di with a degree of divinity was, of course, a key sticking point for Hong Xiuquan, whose choice of 王 wang (king) as his title was based on the assertion that in taking the title of huangdi, Qin Shi Huang and his successors had usurped divine qualities reserved for Shangdi, the 'supreme being' of sorts alluded to in the Five Classics.
The Zhou 周 who overthrew Shang in the 11th century BCE retained this terminology but favored Wang over Di as the royal title and favored Heaven or Tian 天 over the High Lord Shang Di 上帝 as an object of worship and source of legitimacy. Still Huang remained in limited use and Di and Wang still did not have a clear distinction. A later Song dictionary, the Liu Shu Gu, gives an explanation of how the Di-Wang differences became clarified:
Two, there is significant overlap between the terms Di and Wang. In fact, the definition given for Di uses Wang, normally a noun, in a verb form meaning to rule or to reign as King over, and both essentially mean a supreme ruler claiming ecumenical authority.
Huang, Di and Wang all occur in the Oracle Bones, but it's apparent that the Shang rulers primarily referred to themselves as Di, and their primary god as 上帝 Shang Di, the "Upper King" or "the Lord on High." Given the importance of ancestor worship for the Shang and the fact that Shang Di appears to have been the object of a royal household cult rather than a public or national one, it seems that Shang Di was a tutelary diety and/or deified ancestor of the Shang royal house, and translations that render Di as "God" might be getting the relationship backwards. Early Chinese thought lacked clear boundaries between the human and the divine, so it could be that Shang Di's people were kings because he was a powerful god or it might have been that Shang Di was a powerful god because his people were kings.
Assuming that the western interpretation of ‘king’ is a monarch with the divine right to rule, did wang (king) have the same association with divinity? I’m getting the vibes that di/Huang/huangdi is more sacred while wang seems almost secular?
Your translation of _Huang Di_ as _God-Emperor_ is an interesting one. I've tried breaking it down before (for the purpose of comparing to Iranian monarchy) and as far as I could figure, Huang breaks down to hu (white, holy?) + wang (king) and "di" is a term for a kind of celestial or spiritual prince? So I arrived at somwthing similar; what's your analysis?