call the non emergency number to get advice from the police, and get a free consultation from a lawyer. Time to go on the offensive! You have located your stolen property. I’m so so sorry to hear you’re going through this, it sounds like torture. Waiting it out doesn’t seem viable - he is mistreating the cat.
Just giving a shelter a description of your cat doesn’t ensure they will put two and two together. Shelters are often understaffed and overworked with dozens of missing pet reports to be constantly going through. I’ve known people to call asking if their pet had been found, told no, only to show up later that day and find their pet up for adoption. It takes a lot of luck to be reunited with a lost pet so you can’t be certain they didn’t make an effort to find the owner.
IANAL but I wanted to add, Cats get their collars off all the time. It’s one of the reason microchips are so important. I found a cat that needed medical attention just a couple weeks ago and spent a week posting to various Facebook groups in my area, Nextdoor and called the humane society before finally finding the owners.
Or maybe I could post "lost" posters around the area, contact the humane society, and report that I've recently seen my cat after he'd been missing for 2.5 years. I would stake out the area and take him home when I see him wandering around. If anyone ever questions it, I feel like I could easily prove he is my cat. From everything I've read so far, without having the cat in my physical possession, I'm likely screwed.
If I do just take my cat home, would he then be required to provide proof that Figsy is actually his? In theory, If I take my cat, wouldn't he have to prove, without any reasonable doubt, that he purchased Figsy and he has been in his care for the last 2.5 years? If he can't provide that proof, can he actually file any kind of lawsuit?
He is not microchipped. I have pictures of every paw, every marking, social media posts of when I got him, when he went missing, "Lost" posts on websites (coincides with the time the patient states he got him), etc... I understand that this likely isn't enough evidence, but I'm positive it's more evidence than he has.