Welcome to the second edition of the 2021 AskHistorians digest Its been a heckuva week. Just…. What a week. I had TWO fire alarms last night and that was just one night. But we are going to focus on the exciting positive stuff. Like having hundreds of fantastic, super awesome history answers to browse through Huzzah! Especially in this rather draining of times, don’t forget to thank the brilliant authors who put so much work in writing all this.
Don’t forget to take the chance to shout out the interesting questions that caught your eye but remain overlooked! Perhaps a wandering expert will take notice, or it will inspire someone else in their question asking.
I'm actually kind of surprised we dont get more video game related questions. We have a great couple of non flairs on the list for video game related stuff, but weirdly its the questions that seem to be rare.
I remember reading some pretty cool answers about it in here earlier as well, so there are at least some who know a bit about it, but as far as i can see we have no video-game flairs.
But then someone does ask a video game question, and it gets an answer, and then it’s so cool to learn about it and you wonder why this didn’t happen sooner! Like, a few months ago /u/Postmastergeneral201 asked , and that got labeled Great Question and /u/jbdyer wrote an awesome answer, and I’m just sitting here thinking how awesome it is that I was able to learn about one of my favorite video game franchises right here on /r/AskHistorians and… yeah, I’m starting to ramble, aren’t I?
Beyond that, I really liked the one about PEMDAS, because that’s something we really just take for granted and I love seeing people dig up the backstory to these things. “Just Friends” also wins for addressing something that is very noteworthy but not actually noted as much as it ought to be.
As my playthrough of the Zelda franchise finally starts to wind down (assuming it doesn’t take an eternity for me to just play BotW and AoC), I’m probably gonna soon do some more digging into pre-2000 video games—“historical research”, if my mom asks—so I wouldn’t be surprised if that produces at least one or two more questions from me.