Flodoard's audiences are difficult to pin down because he doesn't tell us much in the way of the above. His History of the Church of Rheims was (rather paradoxically) dedicated to his friend the archbishop of Trier, whom Flodoard says requested the work. This may be a convention, but I make the case in my book that the archbishop of Trier would have had legitimate interest in a work about a neighbouring episcopal see. The History is probably something of an advert for the rich history and prestige of the church of Rheims: as well as pointing out how eminent its bishops (e.g. St Remigius, Hincmar) have long been, Flodoard provides a detailed inventory of the church's property. This may have a practical administrative function, but it's also possible the work was designed to be excerpted or read aloud in certain contexts, so it could also have been written to encourage other patrons to give generously to the church.
This very much depends on where you were from. Already by the 8th century there was a linguistic frontier between Romance- and Germanic-speaking areas, which roughly corresponds to the line one could now draw between Romance-speaking France, part of Switzerland, and Italy, and (German-speaking) Germany, part of Switzerland, and Austria. So, in the Carolingian period, if you were from western Francia, your native language was Romance, which by this point had started to diverge from Latin, but the two may have been mutually intelligible (the question of when Latin and early Romance vernaculars like Old French or Old Italian had become distinct is a complex and controversial question among historical linguists). In eastern Francia, your native tongue would have been a Germanic language such as Old High German or Old Saxon, languages that were related to Old English.
Or as an alternative approach: In which way did the Germanic heritage show through in the realms of the Western part of the Frankish dominion?
What effect did the Carolingian Renaissance have on other European states, and if so, to what extent?
How did Western Europe at the time of the Carolingian Empire interact with Eastern Europe? Was it similar to today with the sort of division between the two with a sort of rivalry like between Russia and its allies versus the US and its allies or was it more interconnected?