I just don’t understand all the vitriol you people have for him and his wife. They are public figures and there will always be interest in their private lives. He’s literally just describing his life and everyone comments as if he’s not allowed to have a side to his story or feelings of any kind. They have repeatedly said there’s been nothing but bad press about Meghan, and the last 5 years have proved them right. Tell me… when is the last time you saw a positive article about her? And you eat up the bad headlines like greedy little piggies. Every comment you make only proves them right and you’re too stupid to see that. Like, what are you trying to prove? That William is perfect and the monarchy should last forever?? You all definitely seem to hate Harry for leaving it.
They started a production company and released a film. And then all the headlines were like “Meghan wants to submit it for an OsCaR.” Yeah, like every other filmmaker ever. But H&M are the ones who get weirdly criticized for trying to make their documentary successful. That’s the money they want. I think his statements about his father cutting them off was less about financial support, and more about being cut off from his family. And being left with no security when Meghan was being stalked and getting death threats. I’d point that out too! Harry lost his mother to the press stalking her. I am absolutely certain he struggled mentally watching his wife suffer from it. More than anything I feel compassion for a family that has to live with their curtains always drawn and scurrying from place to place using evasive driving because they can’t escape the tabloids.
They’ve explicitly said they’re living off their own means so the British tabloids and public don’t feel like they have paid for unfettered access. Your uninformed contempt for two strangers could be studied by sociologists. They’re just people.
Of course, they are just people, but what kind of people are they? Are you denying that Harry publicly tried to shame his father, for not continuing to financially support him, even knowing he had personal millions in the bank? They always could’ve lived financially independently, their problem is they want to live at a higher level than they did as working Royals. Their only source of income, however, is there a former association with the Royal family.
As for studying people, they already have studied people like you that lack critical thinking skills.
Harry is a total hypocrite. Here is the best example, him complaining his father is not still supporting him after quitting his job and his father knows he has $20 million in the bank and Meghan had millions in the bank too. Harry is completely jealous of his brother, it’s pathetic.
"Harry then accused his brother of acting like an heir, unable to understand why his younger brother was not content to be a spare.".
Oh ya. My sister knew I would over react. She would smack me and run to her room. I’d sl on her door. She would cry and I’d get whooped. Kids are pricks lol.