If you are a first time visitor, welcome! This thread is trending high right now and getting a lot of attention, but it is important to remember those upvotes represent interest in the question itself, and . The mission of /r/AskHistorians is to provide users with in-depth and comprehensive responses, and our are intended to facilitate that purpose. We remove comments which don't follow them for reasons including unfounded speculation, shallowness, and of course, inaccuracy. Making comments asking about the removed comments simply compounds this issue. So please, before you try your hand at posting, check out the , as we don't want to have to warn you further.
Finally, while we always appreciate feedback, it is unfair to the OP to further derail this thread with META conversation, so if anyone has further questions or concerns, I would ask that they be directed to , or a . Thank you!
Thanks for this detailed response! I notice you spend a lot more time on the deliberate vandalism and defacement of antique statues compared to accidental damage. Relatively speaking how common were these two types of damage? I was always taught that the latter was generally more common and that we see a lot of smashed off penises on statues for the same reason we see a lot of smashed off noses. Those parts stick out and so are more likely to be broken if the statue falls, is damaged in earthquake, etc.
Are there any notable instances of statues that show evidence of having had a limb severed and then re-attached in antiquity- with cement, with pins, with glue?
Sometimes, Christian mobs simply smashed pagan statues - in the late fourth century, for example, the statues of the famous . In different cities and different times, however, various compromises were adopted. Statues might be re-deployed as nothing more or less than cultural ornaments, as in the massive sculptural collections of Byzantine Constantinople. Sometimes, they were carefully removed from public display, and collected by connoisseurs in their own homes. They might be left in place, but "sanitized." A cross might be . Or, as happened in late antique Ephesus and elsewhere in Asia Minor, the exposed genitals of male statues (and sometimes the breasts of female ones) might be chiseled off.
Often, however, the genitals had already been removed in late antiquity. The urban elites of the Roman Empire - the guys, in other words, who ran the cities and state - were predominantly Christian by the mid-fifth century. These men, often educated in the best classical manner, had an ambivalent relationship with the nude statues that surrounded them. They appreciated them as artistic masterpieces and points of contact with a cultural tradition they treasured. But as Christians, they were uncomfortable with the sensuality implicit in their nudity.