I know how the whole finland vs soviet union is a meme on the internet and that finland spanked their asses. But in reality near the end of the winter war the Finnish army was in near collapse by the end.
Of course Finland definitely was David in a David vs Goliath scenario, and in fact they were worse off than Ukraine is now because Finland received hardly if any weapons from countries. The league of nations condemned Russia, and expelled them from it, but many countries 'promised' aid but they never actually helped. Finland only got volunteers from surrounding countries, and eventually in the Continuation war afterwards they had help from Nazi Germany, since they were the only ones who basically did provide weapons.
They kept retreating to further defensive lines on the mannerheim line multiple times when Mannerheim forced troops to stop retreating to more defensible positions because they NEEDED to have the appearance of a solid defense to bolster their negotiations of the Finnish government with the soviet union to get a peace agreement. They had to make it look like Finland still had a huge fight in them, and to make it seem like it wasn't worth it to Stalin to try and invade the entire country. But if the Soviet union knew how close to collapse they were, they would've continued on and occupied Finland since the army was barely holding on anymore.
Because I thought Finland sacrificed a lot to keep their independance and Russia/the soviets just got hit back so hard by Finland they felt leaving Finland alone for at least a while would be best at that moment...
as much as reddit likes to romanticize the winter war, it was at best a pyrrhic truce for Finland and lost more ground than what they originally would have, had they given into Soviet demands. it is of course, an important precursor to the status quo of the cold war that followed.
It's kind of obvious in hindsight that Russia planned to take all of Finland in the Winter War. They even had a puppet government set up on day 1 to rule Finland as part of the Soviet Union. The Finns only survived as an independent state cause they successfully bluffed the Soviets into thinking they still had ammo reserves. If Stalin had known that the Finns only had a few weeks worth of ammo left, then he'd never have signed a peace treaty.