It's the opposite of the Iron Dome. Iron Dome is for intercepting short-range low-value improvised rockets and artillery shells. Patriot is mainly for ballistic missiles and high-value targets.
The Patriot is primarily designed to counter ballistic missiles, but it can also handle cruise missiles and aircraft. The interceptors are quite expensive, so they are used for high-value intercepts. Drones and artillery will be handled by lower-tier systems. I suspect the main value of the Patriot will be integrating its powerful radar into the air defense network while providing a defense against ballistic missile strikes. I doubt russia would attempt to use aircraft within Ukrainian airspace, but the Patriot further discourages that.
Patriot is primarily designed to shoot down ballistic missiles and high-end threats. The missiles are 2,000 pounds with a 200-pound warhead. They will crush airplanes and missiles out to about 100 miles, intercepting at Mach 4+. The cost per intercept is millions of dollars, so the system is designed to protect high-value assets from high-end threats. The system is huge and not rapidly mobile.
The Patriot will be much harder to hide because the powerful radar will be visible to the Russians like a lighthouse beacon. They may still employ decoy launcher trucks to improve the odds. I believe the various vehicles in the systems are spread across a fairly wide area.
Iron Dome is designed to counter rockets and artillery with relatively small interceptors. The Tamir interceptors can reach about 45 miles out, cost about $50k each, and have a small warhead of just a few pounds. They fly around Mach 2, so they can handle cruise missiles and smaller threats. It's really a defensive network with radars and launchers spread across the country.
S-300 encompasses a whole slew of missiles, radars and command equipment. Most of the missiles are kinematicly impressive and the system is generally very fast to setup and break down. But most of the system is very old at this point and the average S-300 battery would look like an antique compared to the patriot systems in service today.