Any good recent books / papers on the nature of history / status of the field? Looking for something in the vein of Armitage and Guldi's The History Manifesto. 🙂.
Huh. Yeah, I did have some head-scratching moments with their customer service over a book that I couldn't get to actually register as being in my cart for checkout. I'm American so maybe I avoided some of the silliness by dealing with their US site rather than the EU site? Maybe there's weird internal problems handing orders off from a UK distributor to their EU branch. Either way, whenever they arrive, more books are always a nice problem to have.
Also tracked down an annotated copy of Reznichenko’s 1984 Taktika, which as the name suggests is a tactics textbook for Soviet Army officers during the late Cold War. This edition was produced in 1987 by the British Army‘s Soviet Studies Research Centre at Sandhurst. It’s a nice reference work for the nitty-gritty on how the Soviets intended to fight at the tactical and tactical-operational level during the tail end of the Late Unpleasantness (and of course it was an influential book for many of the people currently in leadership roles in the Russian military during the Current Unpleasantness, but - 20 year rule.) It’s also interesting historiographically, both because it gives a window into what the Russian military historical-academic establishment thought about their previous conflicts during that time, and because it gives a window into what Western Russia-watchers understood of “the other side of the hill” so to speak.
I got very lucky- mine arrived 48 hours later, which was baffling to me because when I checked out it said ‘these are printed to order, allow 10-14 days lead time before it ships’. I hope they run that sale again, a lot of people (myself included) were able to get books we never would have been able to justify previously.
It was a great sale, though, and once all this initial frustration has passed I'm sure all I'll remember is all the books I'd never be able to buy normally that I now own. I'm very excited for what I have to read next year (and, if we're being realistic, the year after as well..I went a little overboard!).