We should do away with conscription only for men. The sooner it goes, The more equal both gender becomes. People have to fight for this. UN needs to vouch for this. Otherwise most men will get killed against their will if war happens.
But you better believe that if a country is in an existential fight for their survival the draft will come back with a vengeance. Because the state will pull out all the stops to survive, and it doesn't matter if you are talking about a democracy or an autocracy.
Indentured Servitude you mean, slavery implies the condition is permanent. But yes, a lot of the times you don't need conscription or the draft for an effective military, particularly if you have the tech advantage and have the funding to keep a highly trained volunteer force at the ready, which is why so many countries have done away with it.
Don't forget they aren't all soldiers rolling around in tanks and fighter jets, they have civil duties included in this volunteer for the military which is also very much needed.
Sure, some of them are medics, cooks, logistics (just as some of the men are) and roles like that which can be considered more of a civilian role, but they're all soldiers and part of the defence forces.
Of course the Finnish defence forces also employs professionals who are in civil roles (engineers, doctors, etc.) but that's not about conscription or military service.
Yes, it's possible that someone finished their education (or parts of it) and went into the military at an older age. This, however, is rare, since most of the population goes to the military when they're 18 years old. Good examples are doctors. If you've already studied medicine, you will most likely go to the medical reserve officer school and their reservist role will be a wartime doctor. At the same time they can (due to their own or the militarys motivation) become "simple infantrymen" just like everyone else. Same with engineers or any other civilian education. Everyone wins if they get put into positions where their education/experience can be used, but if they go through the military service, whatever their role, they will become soldiers.