I'd like to elaborate on what /u/hannahstohelit said in a couple ways. First, I'd like to note that not only were people familiar with the Hebrew alphabet, many were literate in it, because of its use with Jewish languages. A Yiddish or Ladino or Judeo-Arabic speaker would use the Hebrew alphabet for their native language, and perhaps even know spellings of Hebrew words (since to some extent many Jewish languages written in Hebrew retain Hebrew spellings for Hebrew words). In fact, some might've been literate only in the Hebrew alphabet (though this would've been on the decline by the 20th century)--if you speak Yiddish natively and know some Hebrew for ritual purposes you'd probably be literate in Hebrew and Yiddish (both using the Hebrew alphabet), and depending on your profession you could get away with only speaking a Slavic language on a rudimentary level and not even being literate in it, and unless you were an intellectual you wouldn't need to learn a Western European language.
There were a couple reasons why people supported using the Latin alphabet. The thinkers who were writing about Zionism and most early immigrants were not the Hebrew-alphabet-only folks I referenced above--they tended to be involved in European intellectual life. Many spoke European languages fluently. Jabotinsky, for example, did , but he went to Russian-language schools and was a journalist in Russian. So those people would've been comfortable in Latin characters, maybe more than in Hebrew. Jabotinsky in particular found learning Hebrew in square script quite challenging (I'm not sure if he was literate in Yiddish at all).
Another is that Hebrew presents some challenges for people learning it. Hebrew does not indicate vowels in a consistent way--certain vowels are indicated with letters, but those letters do double duty as consonants. Familiarity with Hebrew language, particularly the paradigms for forming words from consonant roots, helps this a lot--but it causes problems when large numbers of people are trying to learn Hebrew. Some letters make two different sounds, and multiple different letters have the same sound (the extent of these depend on pronunciation system). A minor inconvenience people sometimes get huffy about who don't know Hebrew is that some letters have special "final forms", where it has a different character for the last letter in a word.
(There is also an element of the Zionist/Hebrew language movements wanting to be very distinctly Jewish and leaning into Hebrew and its alphabet in that respect, but honestly I think it's a distant second in terms of reasoning. There would never have been any reason for anyone to want to write Modern Hebrew in Latin characters.).