What of the cases where an established historian with a good publisher is promoting outdated views? There are noted history texts which have since been found to have many errors and misconceptions within them, sometimes due to the particular views or biases of the author, but others because the state of research of that time has advanced substantially since then. At times it can be hard to tell, especially if some books are still considered excellent regardless.
As for biases, to be honest EVERYTHING IS BIAS, but that doesn't mean the book isn't worth reading. Memoirs are a good example of this. Memoirs are almost, if not always, VERY bias because they serve the agenda of the writer by creating a version of events that make them look good. But memoirs are also Primary Sources and can be incredibly invaluable for first hand information from an eye witness of an event. The trick isn't to find something that is unbiased, because books are written by people and people are bias with agendas, the trick is to realize when the bias ends and information begins.
Again, in order to understand the criticism (and to decide for yourself whether or not to agree or disagree), will require reading more than a single book on the topic, but rather being familiar enough with the subject to form your own opinions.
Second step is to look at the publisher. Many publishers specialize in publishing academic history books, but this isn't a deal breaker per say. A lot of Universities will publish their own books, but If the author is a credible historian with a long resume and THIS particular book happens to be published by a less academic publisher, that isn't necessarily a deal breaker. What should be a deal breaker is if the author is not a professional historian AND the book is not published by a reputable publisher.
In general, academic sources, or vetting a good author as others have mentioned, or his publisher. You could also look at what kinds of awards their books may have won. Jared Diamond and David Fromkin are award winning authors whose books are at least taken seriously amongst academia. Niall Ferguson, for example, is not.