Pfft. Even with the most extreme ruling possible, they are no longer in a strong enough position in state legislatures to overturn a Presidential election, and when you look at how their internal divisions are now starting to cost them control of legislative chambers even when they hold majorities of seats, I think their position will only weaken further.
Thank you. People were calling me delusional before the Elections for pointing out all the flaws with the idea that the GOP was about to sweep the map and cement permanent minority rule. Fear of that is useful insofar as it provides a motivator to vote (in stark contrast to the complacency of 2016), but if it threatens to spread the sort of blackpilled doomerism that causes people to assume nothing can be done about the situation, then it becomes a real problem because that is when people stop voting.
And the Supreme Court would have to worry about Democratic gerrymanders, too, and what could be done with them.
I worry that the predictions of a "narrow" ruling are off and that the Supreme Court was only acting the way they were to appear impartial.
I don't think it's wise to look at one ruling and assume how the Court would vote on an entirely different issue. This court was designed by McConnell to dismantle abortion rights, something the right has been working on for 50 years, and it did exactly that. That doesn't necessarily mean that the same court will say "what if we just like, ended democracy all together?". That's not what this court was crafted to do, and unlike abortion, it hasn't been a hot button political issue or something the right has been fighting for for half a century.
So if the supreme court is forward looking enough, it would realise that letting the republicans prevail in this case isn't within their own interests. Smashing through checks and balances and it's gonna be the end to democracy and the end of the supreme court's power. I don't see them doing that unless they don't realise the issues that can of worms that they let out.