For the difficulties of the story, the Wycke book mentioned above as well as Josiah Osgood's paper "Caesar and the Pirates" (useful here because you can find it through Google). For ancient piracy, Philip De Souza Piracy in the Graeco-Roman World is still essential.
Before talking about the story of Julius Caesar and the pirates, there are two important things to remember about it: 1. The sources that have all the fun details like how he was angry that the pirates set his ransom so low, or how he told the pirates every day that he would return to crucify then, which they took as a joke until he did it, come from sources that were written well after Caesar's death and deification. The two most commonly used accounts are from Suetonius and Plutarch, both of whom wrote after 100 CE, thus a full century and a half after the deification. Velius Paterculus, the other important source, wrote much earlier (around the late 20s CE) and did not include fanciful details like him practicing public speaking or participating in the pirates' athletic competition. Paterculus was also something of a court historian for Tiberius, which is important given point two: 2) Julius Caesar's great rival Pompey won great renown for his grand military campaign to clear the Mediterranean of pirates. It doesn't take an overly cynical perspective to see how convenient it is that, actually, Julius Caesar had his own cool story about pirates! This isn't to say we should treat it as fabrication, for all my caveats it is relatively well attested, just that it also needs to be treated very carefully and, from a personal standpoint, it is somewhat hard to know what to make of it. Personally I think the best way of the story is in the manner of Maria Wyke's excellent Julius Caesar: A Life in Western Culture which is something if a meta biography, tracing different events in Caesar's life through the ages and showing how they morphed and changed to fit a particular view on this most discussable historical figure.
The United States legally defined terrorism in 1985 as "premeditated, politically motivated violence perpetrated against noncombatant targets by subnational groups or clandestine agents." "Politically motivated" can have done wiggle room, but overall pretty clear. In 1996, a truck bomb exploded in Khobar Towers in Saudi Arabia, which was being used to house US Air Force personnel as they conducted patrol missions over Iraq, leading to the death of nineteen of them. Although this attack was clearly against a military target (it is difficult to refer to US military personnel engaged in military operations as "noncombatants") the United States has referred to this as a "terrorist attack" on numerous occasions .
Modern state militaries today also utilize attacks to push political and ideological goals, but given that they are afforded legitimacy as state actors by the global stage of other actors, we just call them militaries, while we colloquially have started calling communal non-state militant forces terrorists.