I had to write this on my mobile as I'm away from home without my references, or my laptop. I apologise for the mess.
It's noteworthy that these men would have worn bright uniforms that were distinct from one another (company not individuals within the same company) as this is potential evidence that other fire brigades would have turned up to each fire. These men weren't well trained, I remember reading that some were Thames Watermen (so ferry operators, because obviously they know about water so what more does one need?).
In terms of your first question how they knew, that one I don't know as much about, I would posit that the systems in place prior to 1666 were still in use and that London being far more level with less light pollution made it far easier to see fires. I know that the local parish would ring bells but I'm not sure on who informed anyone to begin this. Once these bells began to ring you'd have the scenario I mentioned above in our 1670 event, neighbours, parish police (because crime and fire officials were parish based, there's no Met for the next 200 years), the parish fire brigade that existed pre 1666 are all helping to put out the fire and avoid it devastating the parish. I do have an inkling from a source I can't remember that fire brigades would all rush to fires in case it was one of their's, they're only paid then by the insurance company if they put out or attend these fires. So the fire brigades were incentivised to get to any and all fires quickly. Additionally they'd be checking whether any neighbouring properties were insured by them and at risk of catching fire, however again sources suggest they wouldn't help putting out the original fire, and would wait until yours began to light.
Let's assume, though, that you are a Londoner in this period, decided to take out proper insurance, and were unlucky enough to suffer a fire. If the blaze began by day, you, or more probably a servant, would most likely notice it in time to extinguish it yourselves, or with the assistance of neighbours. If it broke out by night – or during the day in high summer and in a period when winds were high and fire spread quickly – then it was the duty of the members of the city watch to raise the alarm, which they'd typically do by ringing the bells of the nearest parish church. It was this ringing that would alert both the parish fire brigade and the private fire services of the period to the existence of the fire. What wouldn't happen, apparently, is any sort of attempt by the householder or his servants to directly notify their insurance office that they were in need of help. These, in fact, kept normal office hours and don't seem to have maintained any sort of out-of-hours emergency service.