Γειά σου First, if you are new to AH, welcome The mission of /r/AskHistorians is to provide users with , and our are intended to facilitate that purpose. . Making comments asking about the removed comments simply compounds this issue. So please, before you try your hand at posting, check out the , as we don't want to have to warn you further.
Finally, while we always appreciate feedback, it is unfair to the OP to further derail this thread with META conversation, so if anyone has further questions or concerns, I would ask that they be directed to , or a . Thank you!
Thanks for the reply! Your comment demonstrated a far better clarity of understanding the material at hand, and I primarily wanted to add my 2 cents from a queer perspective to explain, in slightly more detail and in a sense perhaps separate from what can be drawn from linguistic analysis alone, why the variance in understanding between our two cultures in relation to sexual dynamics and sexual ethics could render the uncritical application of the term "homosexual" harmful or inaccurate. The venn diagram intersection of "Could care about the authority of Scripture", "Has skill in the area of New Testament Greek", and "Holds an understanding of modern queer sexual dynamics" tends to group in a rather small number of people, but it is what it is. I'll take a look at your post on the economics list claim when I get time- I was admittedly pulling all of this rather quickly from memory, and I've not invested much energy in evaluating that claim in particular with as critical of a lens. I was also somewhat conflating my thoughts on the arsenokoitai-malakoi dynamic and could have been more explicit.
The current debate isn't so much "Does this word give the connotation of one male human person having sexual relations with another male human person?", but instead, "In light of the word's ambiguity and our knowledge of ancient sexual practices, to what acts in particular was this referring?" With that in mind, there's a grain of truth to "Homosexuality" first being introduced into an English translation of the New Testament in the mid 20th century, in so far a word for the internal persuasion of sexuality didn't exist until the 1860s, when it was coined by a German psychologist. As that notion would have been wholly foreign to an ancient, if we're granting the notion that it's referring to homosexual behavior, then a more proper translation becomes "They who act as penetrator in fulfillment of their homosexual urges".
If we’re talking about a (re)translation of this contentious term as "sexual perverts," this would be a truly mystifying modification. Nothing in the word's form/etymology, nor in the evidence of any of its actual usage, points in the direction of a broader sense of “(sexual) perversion” that this term/phrase usually conjures. A better analogous fit to that is another Greek word, porneia, usually understood with a broader sense of “sexual immorality.” [Note: see now my addendums 3 and 4 at the end of this post, about RSV’s “sexual perverts.”].
[Edit 4:] I'm now realizing that "sexual perverts" in RSV's 1971 revision actually translates two paired terms in 1 Corinthians 6:9, malakoi and arsenokoitai — not just the latter term, as implied elsewhere. So I suppose that makes marginally more sense, if (as is the case) both terms refer to those who engaged in what were thought to be illicit sex acts, and were just rolled into one broader category by the translators. ESV seems to have taken the same route, but rolling them into the more specific category of “men who practice homosexuality.”.