The American perspective of the IRA's existence and operation was obviously not uniform, and the majority of Americans remained apathetic, but there was a significant number of Americans who were sympathetic to the cause. These Americans were largely clustered in the northeast of the country, in cities such as Boston, where large quantities of Irish-Americans lived. At the time of The Troubles, the era of the Potato Famine and horrible anti-Irish racist sentiment were not far removed from the Irish-American consciousness. Additionally, Irish families would go to Catholic mass every Sunday and hear from the elders after service, where many were able to recall the brutal suppression of Irish freedom fighters in 1917. It was the religious and cultural ties to Ireland that made many sympathetic to the cause. Today it is estimated that 10% of the US population has Irish ancestry, which is a very significant figure.
The final point is proximity. The US is an ocean removed from Ireland, and the activities of the Provisional Irish Republican Army and other more radical groups were published in the US, but their impact in terms of the lives they took was not explicitly condemned by the press. In Belfast a car bomb would tear through a community, hurting the lives of both Catholic and Protestant alike, but in the US, the bomb could easily be portrayed as just another act of war between two struggling sides. Tom Clancy's Patriot Games is actually very good at depicting this reality, as the official IRA wants nothing to do with the fictional ULA's terrorist activities in the United States for fear of ruining their image. (See, sometimes watching all those action movies can pay off!).
But what about those who were not Irish and still supported the cause? These people fall mainly into two groups: socialists and patriots. The socialists would want to see a united Ireland to progress the values of socialism across the world, as having a country as significant as Ireland being socialist would bring further legitimacy to the somewhat experimental (at the time) ideology. The patriots fall into a much simpler sect of the American psyche. Although it may seem quaint, the US is a nation descended from freedom fighters, and many saw similarities between the Irish struggle and the American one. This was perpetuated by two larger factors: The British shedding her colonies after the Second World War; and the casual yet ever-present racism found in the United States. Some saw Ireland as just another imperialist colony that should be freed, and many saw Ireland subconsciously as a nation of white people who should inherently be free, just as the US was.
A lot of people identity as strong Irish in America, but many fewer are strongly English so there was never any equal and opposite mobilization. It became a Catholic issue in a way that it never became a Protestant issue, American anti-Catholicism having rapidly declined in popularity during the Inter- and Post-War years.
So it's actually clear that most Americans (at least at this one moment in history) were not particularly sympathetic with the IRA. There's not a ton of public opinion polling I could find about Americans interests in the two sides of the Troubles. Most of the other polling I could was around when the Good Friday Agreement was signed in 1998. The most explicit questions I could find were from a survey in July 1998 (the agreement was signed in April and passed in separate referenda in Northern Ireland and the Irish Republic in May):
First I will also add that it's very common for ethnically based insurgencies to be partially funded by the diaspora/co-ethnic abroad. Obviously, the Zionist fighting for the Israeli state relied heavily on North America for fund-raising and supplies. During periods of actual fighting, like the Six-Day War or the Yom Kippur War, funding would increase, as much as doubling. The Tamil insurgency in Sri Lanka was in large part funded by a wealthy diaspora, as was the Khalistan movement pushing for a Sikh state in Punjab. , for example, argues that the Tamil-Sinhala ethnic conflict in Sri Lanka would never have been able to last for as long as it did if the armed minority Tamil groups were forced to rely strictly on resources in Sri Lanka, rather than through the larger Tamil diaspora. In addition, in America, since the middle of the 19th century, the Irish-American political lobby in certain cities has been noticeably strong. The reason for America's very odd diversity lottery visa system is, by the accounts I've read, largely a response to pressure by Irish American politicians to "legalize the Irish" (, ). So if the Irish Americans felt sympathy for Catholics in Northern Ireland, it's unsurprising that we see varying political responses.
In the situation in Northern Ireland, are your sympathies more with the Irish Catholics or more with the Irish Protestants?
We should be careful about slippage between support for Irish Catholics and support for the IRA. There certainly was financial support for the IRA, but what proportion of Americans supported the actual IRA?
The truth of it is that not that many Americans supported the IRA. There are well over 40 million people who identify as being of Irish descent. The population of Ireland is still lower today (\5 million) than it was before the mass exodus of the mid-19th century (\8 million), when millions left for the US, Canada, Australia, Argentina, etc.
Also 30m people in a diaspora is a very large amount considering the population of Ireland itself is less than 7m.