Having been educated in both Italy and the UK, I know history books and the curriculum were always very vague about the fate of Hitler's remains. That lack of clarity definitely fuelled the conspiracy theories, I feel.
The second is that, as you say, it fuelled conspiracy theories. There aren't major histories, certainly ones which I would expect to be used as standard textbooks, which were pushing this kind of stuff. It isn't impossible to have been exposed to it in school, perhaps, but it is far more likely to reflect singular experiences (I had a substitute once who literally used plot points from The DaVinci Code, so shit happens), than actual broad curricula that were teaching "who the heck knows what happened to Hitler Maybe he escaped". As I said prior, the basic narrative was very firmly established no later than the publication of Hugh Trevor-Roper's report, and even before it was mostly agreed even if there were minor, lingering doubts for a few months, which mostly were a product of intentional Soviet chicanery.
I can't say why you were taught that way, but certainly the historical consensus hasn't changed since the event itself, and the determination of suicide has been accepted and uncontested, and tales to the contrary alway relegated to the fringe of conspiracy theory. It was certainly what I learned in my childhood of that period, and the standard explanation in books on the war going back much further than my own cognizant period. in what we knew - reports of suicide in 1945, confirmation of dental identification in the 1950s - as well as some details on the lack of Soviet cooperation, but Hugh Trevor-Roper's report, made available in 1946, was at the time considered quite definitive, and still holds up pretty well under historical scrutiny based on the information that trickled out from the Soviets over the years.
To your other question, while I'm older and my education was far different than yours in the 1990s - I can't ever remember running into a single non-conspiracy-level theory that 'nobody knew', nor do I remember contemporary general opinion being anything except suicide - one general comment I'd make is that in all sorts of ways the fall of the Soviet Union presented a (sadly) brief stretch in which historians finally had the access to archives to fully verify many of their theories about what had happened behind the Iron Curtain on this and many other subjects. If somehow there were remnants left over from the Stalin campaign still floating around in badly outdated textbooks, whatever justification they had for existing disappeared with that additional resource.
Just to add a tiny bit to the massive amount of research done on this by /u/Georgy_K_Zhukov, one thing to keep in mind is just how thoroughly Stalin lied about this. He lied to Harry Hopkins - probably the only person in the United States government Stalin felt any warmth towards - in May 1945 during his trip to mend relations after Truman's legendary dressing down of Molotov. At Potsdam in late July, he kept it up and told Truman outright that Hitler had probably gotten away.