But you just said that it was there for 110 years and few people, if any, had any problem with it. Were the people or the SC in letargy for more than one century and just realized now that the law was not part of the historicaltradition?!
Just with the current temporary court; once more sane judges are appointed to the court, the gun control laws will again follow the historical tradition of more than two centuries.
I’m perturbed that US Supreme Court justices would actually say that “Judges should no longer consider whether the law serves public interest like enhancing public safety”.
That said, I am still disappointed that the justices believe that public interest should not be considered when judges evaluate the law.
The Supreme court did not argue in good faith and ignored stare decisis so it could find the decision it wanted to. Whether you are happy about this or not does not change the fact that historically gun control was much more restrictive than it is today.
And no the gun lobby isn’t ballyhooing that everyone has the right to gun ownership for self protection — felons (based on what they were guilty of) have to get an exemption post prison/ probation.
As for CA & NY: they’ve raised the bar on gun ownership, which is a state by state prerogative, and hearkens back to the 2A being more of a rite than a right thus the ability to defend oneself with a firearm isn’t sacrosanct, but it is contingent upon meeting certain criteria.
“A” large part of the problem with the 2A is that it was specifically written for certain white men - as long as they met the criteria to become gun owners which makes it a “rite” of passage, or a privilege, that can be revoked vs something that is truly inalienable.
You might wanna reread what I wrote, because there isn’t a complaint to be found, I simply stated what the historical context of the 2A was — patently, gun ownership is the flip side of the coin on gun control, and it has always been classist/ race based/ limited in who can participate no need to put lipstick on a pig, just call it fat enough for market and be done with it.