The biggest difference between Rome and CDMX (Mexico City, DF, Tenochtitlan, etc) is that Rome has a continuous through-line of cultural and political influence, and a large part of that is due to the Papacy. While Rome has been sacked and changed hands politically in some sense, there has been a continuous Roman (Latin) culture that has predominated for most of its history.
I am researching colonial Mexico and not ancient Rome - but even in this very brief overview, numerous differences from the fall of Rome are apparent. Above all, however, I would like to emphasize the ultimately very different society with which the Spaniards came into contact, with its own distinct cosmology and way of life. For this reason alone it seems difficult to compare the two examples directly without falling into generalisations or Eurocentrism (sorry Balbuena!).
1. In this post I advocate for seeing post-conquest Mexico City as a continuation of pre-conquest civilization, not as a "clean break." I do believe it is important to acknowledge just how life-altering conquistador occupation of Tenochtitlan was, however. While indigenous culture prevailed in numerous ways for centuries, a centralized political power remained in the hands of the Spanish, and so this collision of cultures (resulting in the social interactions of the three social classes that resulted from that collision) completely changed the city forever, to say the least. This plays out differently for different cities and regions in Mexico at this time, but that is beyond the scope of this thread.
Of course, there are lots of historical differences between Rome and Mexico City-Tenochtitlan. The Aztecs were upstarts who had not been in Central Mexico for long before they ascended to power. Tenochtitlan was not ancient in the way that Teotihuacan was, rather it was a booming, new city. Since it was not so prestigious, it consciously emulated older Mesoamerican communities and rewrote its "official" history to connect Aztec rule to other, more ancient Mesoamerican powerhouses, an effort which legitimized the new Aztec Empire. But even at its height, which was interrupted by the Spaniards, the city's population was probably only about 75,000, not the hundreds of thousands of people that scholars previously estimated. Aztec religion was obviously totally different than Rome's, as was its experience with and relationship to Christianity (and where the power of Christianity came to be located). The city's history was clearly different from Rome, even without the wars that broke out in 1519.