I can shed a little light on the Ringo song. It's actually a cover of a 1960 Johnny Burnette hit, who was the frontman of the Rock & Roll Trio. "You're Sixteen" was written by the professional songwriting pair the Sherman Brothers, most famous for their work with the Walt Disney Company ("It's A Small Word", Mary Poppins, The Jungle Book). The brothers started out as ad hoc songwriters, and sold their first song to Disney, "Tall Paul" in 1958, which was recorded by the budding Mouseketeer Annette Funicello, and climbed to 7 in the Billboard charts.
Between jobs for Disney, they'd try to sell any song they could, and "You're Sixteen" was one of them. According to an interview with Richard (Dick) and Robert (Bob) Sherman published in , and available :
The album featured eight songs either written or co-written by Starr and one of his ex-bandmates, George Harrison, Paul McCartney, and John Lennon. To flesh out the album, then, Ringo needed some extra songs. The other two songs were a cover of a Randy Newman song, a songwriter who Harry Nilsson was a big fan of. He had recorded a full album of Newman covers a few years earlier, on 1970's Nilsson Sings Newman. The other cover for the Ringo album was the Sherman Brothers' "You're Sixteen".
For this particular Ringo song - 'You're Sixteen' - there were a lot of things that came together to take any risque 'sleeping with the underage' sting out of the song. Firstly, 'You're Sixteen', in 1972, was obviously enough meant to be seen in the context of this rock'n'roll revival; Ringo was covering a song from back when it was plausible that he might date a sixteen year old (he was twenty in 1960, back when the Johnny Burnette version came out). Also...Ringo's public persona was not an inherently sexy one, especially in 1973-1974, when the Beatles were no longer at the heights of Beatlemania; he came across as an amiable, kindly sort. And his version of 'You're Sixteen', with its amiable swing and his 'gonna give it a try though I'm not much of a singer' vocals, just does not sound like he's thinking sexy thoughts about someone who was sixteen year old in 1973. As far as I can tell, contemporary reviews of Ringo's 1973 Ringo album don't remark on 'You're Sixteen' at all - the hook of the album for those reviewers was definitely the 'Beatles almost getting back together' angle, and there was much more discussion of the songs written by the other Beatles for the album ('Photograph' by George, 'I'm The Greatest' by John, and 'Six O'Clock' by Paul). I think, more or less, those contemporary reviewers saw the song as run-of-the-mill.