For example, Lord Dunmore, royal governor of Virginia, imposed unpopular British laws like the Intolerable Acts. He was opposed by the House of Burgesses. Negotiations led to outright hostilities. Needing someone to do his job, the Burgesses gave Edmund Pendleton the powers of a governor. Virginia militia units under their control overmatched the British forces under Dunmore's control , and he was forced to flee first from Williamsburg to York, then to a British warship off shore. The Burgesses wrote a constitution for the state, and under that made Patrick Henry governor. There were complexities- Loyalists, and relations with the Cherokee- but the Burgesses essentially kept the government structure.
Yes, the Constitution was counterrevolutionary. There were plenty of radicals and disaffected people voicing their opinions who would have gone further. But they did not take part in the Philadelphia convention, and didn't play a part in the ratification process , either. But, as I say above, the structures put in place during this time did allow for a more democratic republic to emerge- mostly after 1800.
The Continental Congress had few executive powers, and was not good at using those.. US ambassadors rightly complained that they had no power to negotiate for the States, and got no instructions. It had no ability to levy taxes, equip an army. Clearly , all that needed to be changed. But I'm not at all going to venture into the question of whether the Federalists' constitution ought or had to have been written, or whether lesser measures and the anti-Federalists were instead correct. Just that it seems pretty evident the constitution was not written in the midst of civil war and social collapse.
- The American Revolution as Civil War. This definitely has more of a basis of thought among historians, although it very rarely gets raised to a central point of view. By this I mean - even within the thirteen colonies, and especially in US historiography, the fact that the Revolution was a conflict between Americans, specifically between "Patriots" and "Loyalists", gets downplayed and ignored. Often the Loyalists get portrayed in the US version of history as just a bunch of stuck-up rich Brits, but this is not an accurate understanding of Loyalism at all - Loyalists made up an estimated 15%-20% of inhabitants of the colonies (compared to maybe 45%-ish of Patriots), and could come from a variety of backgrounds: freed slaves, tenant farmers in New York, native peoples on the frontier, French-speakers in Montreal. Looking at the conflict from this perspective certainly exposes some of the more violent and revolutionary aspects of the war, as many loyalists had their property expropriated, and a not-insignificant number of them ended up effectively as refugees in the tens of thousands (meaning that something like 2% or so of the population of the Thirteen Colonies was forced to leave because of war and violence). I think there is a very real tendency therefore to downplay this violence between Americans - the term lynching is thought to originate from "Lynch's Law", which described the kind of extralegal violence authorized by Virginian justice of the peace Charles Lynch against local Loyalists. Regarding property seizure, the historian George Tindall in fact made an argument that this massive redistribution of property from the war made the 1780s and 1790s more "equal" in opportunities for white Americans than any time before or since. If this almost sounds like an argument for the American Revolution as Revolution, I'd say that the difference between revolutions and civil wars seems to ultimately have as much to do with PR, who wins, and the benefit of hindsight as it does from formal definitions, and the two types of events tend to go hand in hand: the historian Eric Foner has made the case that the US Civil War was in fact a "second American Revolution" (and much more revolutionary than the first), while the Russian Revolution inevitably led to the Russian Civil War, which was arguably also a much more revolutionary event than the relatively simple seizure of power by Bolsheviks in November 1917.
So to summarise, would you say that the American Revolution was different from other revolutions, and possibly more of a War of Independence, because it was an existing government that fought and separated from it's parent government, while other revolutions are generally characterised by the public overthrowing the government, and replacing it with an entirely new governmental struture?
As was mentioned elsewhere, there were a number of rebellions i this period, most notably Shays Rebellion (indirectly spurring the creation of the new Constitution) and the Whiskey Rebellion (which was intentionally put down as a show of power by the new Constitutional government).