First we should situate ourselves a bit as to where the populated parts of Siberia are. I posted this yesterday, but again for reference is a population density map of Russia. The populated parts of Sibera (which for the purposes of this discussion we'll use as shorthand for "Asiatic Russia east of the Urals") are very much along its southern border, being wider towards the Urals and narrowing out and eventually stopping around the Kutnezsk Basin (Kuzbass). There are scattered areas of higher population around cities along the southern border to the Pacific, notably Irkutsk, Khabarovsk and Vladivostok.
Nevertheless, Yakutsk hasn't always been huge. It had a population of around 8,000 in 1914, which increased to 23,000 in 1933, 50,000 in 1940, broke 100,000 in 1968, 200,000 in 1997, and 300,000 in 2016. Much of this initial population growth was again because of Soviet-spurred industrial development and internal resettlement, whether forced (prisoners) or voluntary (in the Soviet period a bonus was paid to workers who accepted job assignment in remote areas). Yakutsk is actually a bit unusual for Siberia in that its population has continued to increase since 1991, and in part that's again because the area supported a relatively decent-sized rural population that has moved to the city. Many other cities in Siberia, especially more remote ones without diverse economic bases, have seen steep population declines since 1990, especially as work opportunities have dried up and bonuses are no longer paid for living in these areas.
In many ways, the comparison to the development of Canada is helpful because in broad brushstrokes there are certainly parallels. Both Siberia and what is now Canada were largely explored and claimed by Europeans in order to control the fur trade: although Russians made it to the Pacific by the 17th century, much of the control of the region was based off of forts and trading posts designed to control native Siberian populations and monopolize the lucrative trapping and export of furs, especially sable. It was really in the 19th and 20th centuries that agricultural settlers from European Russia and Ukraine were encouraged to settle in Siberia, and starting with the First Five Year Plan of 1928-1932 the Soviets heavily pushed the development of new industrial centers in the region as well, often creating new cities from scratch, such as Magnitogorsk, and more infamously Norilsk. Much of this settlement in Siberia was both a spur to build a transcontinental railroad in the Trans-Siberian Railway (started in 1891 and completed in 1916), and that railway in turn determined where much of the subsequent population and development would be. This is a bit similar to the history of the Canadian Pacific Railway on the development of Canada. In any event, I would say that the more populated parts of Siberia if anything resemble the climate and history of the Canadian Prairie Provinces than they would, say, Yukon or Northwest Territories.
I believe Canada actually did forcibly (or at least, without telling them they had options) a small number of indigenous people from the Canadian Arctic even further north in order to back up their claims to those areas.
I'm not an expert in Canadian Arctic history, but I don't think Canada ever as heavily invested in settling its Arctic regions to the point of actually paying people to move there (or forcibly relocating them there either for that matter). It is worth noting, however, that the US state of Alaska does (kinda sorta) give payouts to residents in the form of Permanent Fund Dividends, and its population is growing and far exceeds that of Yukon, Northwest Territories, Nunavut and Greenland combined.