Would the same be true for the time that he was only bound by the terms of his no-contact injunction, before i filed for the pfa? Its really hard for me to follow the status of his assault charges because the only way I can view the hearings are through the judges youtube channel, but they never end up posting the stream. When i call the court clerk her only answer has been “I don’t know what to tell you”…. I received a single page outlining the conditions of his bond, which simply said “no contacting the victims” and no possession of firearms or other weapons. Nothing very specific.
I am wondering if his no-contact bond condition was violated by him having his friends and family contacting me prior to the pfa being granted. He had texted my sister, my mom and has had his friends and family call and text me. I dont know the specifics of “no-contact bond condition” because I haven’t been able to get any information on his pending assault/battery & criminal deprivation of property charges (pulled me halfway out of a moving vehicle that i was trying to drive myself and children away from him in, then threw my keys onto the roof of our house).
This lawyer calls me constantly and has now sent me a threatening letter. I was just under the impression “no-contact” meant no contact. I am not cool with him coming into the home where my kids and I live, after he tried to hurt us, whether it be for guns or anything. Am i wrong in thinking that him contacting me through a lawyer still is 3rd party contact?
IAL, the lawyer can contact you on his clients behalf. In fact, depending on where you are it’s only the lawyer that can contact you, not friends or family of your ex.
Ah, sorry. I’m in California and I can only tell you what applies here, but with that being said the friends and family contacting you would be a violation here in California. Call the sheriff and tell them what happened. Of course I’m not in your state, but I’m going to guess that your ex has violated the terms of the no contact order.