She's a Christofascist. Let's be honest, though: What she says is how millions of conservatives feel. She is just the latest mouthpiece for Christian hate and oppression.
She's a hate filled monster and deserves every negative thing that befalls her. But I disagree with your take on not trying to reach out to the working class and working poor, because they have been neglected. We can root out hate and enlighten people in the process. They aren't exclusive to one another.
(Skipping over a lot and oversimplifying now...) The Democrats (I would argue) grew complacent with their influence over the working class, unions and working poor to the point that they did not speak to their concerns and worries as jobs began to be sent overseas and their opportunities dwindled. (Yes... the republicans sent the jobs overseas... that's not the point.) Around the same time, Newt Gingrich (invoking Reagan as Patron Saint), his "Republican Revolution" and the likes of Rush Limbaugh began a very well thought out and coordinated attack aimed directly at the working class. The Democrats shrugged. The Democrats continued their efforts on very worthy and righteous causes... but they did not offer enough vocal support or legislative effort to address the concerns of the blue-collar working class. Gingrich's plan was very successful. The republicans did "the impossible" and made serious in-roads to the working class. They have yet to lose ground.
After they found their way in, they played upon every fear the working class had with great effect. If they didn't have a convenient 'boogey man' to use to advance their goals, they created one. (Just because they are evil, doesn't mean they aren't effective or dumb.).
AN. 21, 2021	H.RES.57: Impeaching Joseph R. Biden, President of the United States, for abuse of power by enabling bribery and other high crimes and misdemeanors.	1	ALL REPUBLICANS	In committee.
MARCH 8, 2022	H.RES.968: Congressional Voting Accountability Act	5	ALL REPUBLICANS	Referred to committee.