Colonization, however, drastically changed the political landscape in which we could express said sovereignty. Today our communities continue to experience the ramifications of this historical uproar. Though many Native Nations have survived to our current day, we are constantly beset with challenges to the inherent sovereignty we have maintained over the centuries. To preserve and expand this sovereignty, we must first recognize that Native Nations have possessed this quality before settlers arrived to the Americas. This paper explores the ways in which Native Nations have historically expressed our sovereignty and articulates the basis for our continued expression of sovereignty today.
Good morning and welcome to the "Indigenous Histories Disrupting Yours: Sovereignties, History, and Power" conference panel Q&A! This panel examines the role that historians play in empowering Indigenous communities by countering the historical and continuing erasure of Indigenous voices from within the historical narrative.
How can we bring a deeper understanding of Indigenous history and twenty-first-century Indigenous perspectives into the choices we make as consumers as well as residents of unceded Tribal/Indigenous land?
There is a question of who the audience is, as I think the answer differs a bit whether we're looking within the indigenous community or beyond. If it's within, there will already exist some degree of scaffolding that can be worked with, identifying what people value and providing content that meets it and which they will intrinsically grasp. So that doesn't quite work with 'outside' and 'ally' groups, who won't have the same frames of references, and so may not understand the depth of meaning the 'ingroup' will.
Hi! You know, I know of at least one PhD who tried to do a comparative analysis of indigeneity and colonialism in Palestine and Bahrain, though I believe they had to shift their study from that point.
Basically making the case that outside of the Palestinian case, a lot more thinking needs to be brought to better understand indigeneity in the Middle East, and frameworks cannot only look at it from a Eurocentric, Western colonial view.
For someone who grew up and was educated in the Western way of thinking about colonialism and indigeneity, what books or resources from an alternate viewpoint would you recommend?