That is the sad part. And a lot of people have been convinced to accept it. Fighting against their own rights to unionize in many cases. And those same people will call some "lazy ....." if they refuse to accept it. They will literally talk like they have no rights at all and that it is at the grace of the top few they are allowed to work.
This mentality has been talked and pushed for a long time. It was something I told my kids not to ever fall for. Life is not all about working for the few and it should never have become accepted.
And your points are fantastic. They see that they can fire people and put the work on others and they do. So many fail to realize that if you are working an extra 20 hours your hourly wage is not the same as that 40 hours if you are salaried. Have a friend like that. He will pull 80 hours and have no family time. He complains but talks up his $60/hr job. That salary is based on 40/hours. He effectively gets $30/hr and he cannot understand that. Those extra 40 hours he now works are basically unpaid overtime.
This is not shifting 40 hours onto 4 days. Companies already allow their workers to do 4x10 hour shifts. This is different.
“100-80-100” principle, which means 100% pay for 80% of time worked — with an expectation of 100% productivity.".
Wow. This was a lot of text for your relatively short comment. What I'm saying is, I've been there, and I won't tell you the financial security wasn't a nice reprieve from the grind, but unless you're jumping up to 6 figures, shit right now is kind of just fucking bleak no matter where you're sitting. All I want is a job that pays the bills and makes me not want to fucking shoot myself.
I used to think that. I really did. But earlier this year I realized that the problems with my shitty service industry job had everything to do with the godawful corporate management working me to the bone and the lack of pay. I got an immense amount of satisfaction from the work itself and I would have been happy to do it indefinitely, but I literally could not afford it.
What used to happen is that I would start work at 9, finish everything by 12, eat lunch, and then look busy for the next 4 hours. Not really a big deal, everyone winds down after lunch, but swapping to 4/10's meant I started work at 7, finished everything by 10 AM, and then as a tradeoff for having to sit there in a cold sweat and performatively lie about how much time my job actually takes to do for the next seven fucking hours, I got friday off.
yeah I thought that too, until I became good at my job and ended up finishing what was originally 10 hours of work after 2-3 hours and still had to pretend to be productive for 8 more fucking hours every night.
I swapped to working 4/10's at my last job and I don't think anything put into perspective how much of a fucking scam the 40 hour work week is quite like that did, not even the pandemic.