So first, I need to explain that television sitcom actors from the 1950s had a wide range of dialects that was a result of their training and/or performance background. Many of the most well-known actors of the period began their careers in theatre, radio, and/or Vaudeville. Those early acting opportunities shaped much of the development of their popular characters and acting styles once they appeared regularly on a television sitcom. Broadly, actors made dialectical choices for their characters that they had been working on and refining for much of their careers. But, you are specifically asking about the "circus carny" sound of men and the strident quality of women in television sitcoms of the 1950s, so I'll try to address that directly.
The vocal qualities you describe for 1950s television actors are addressed by Jessica Taylor in “Speaking Shadows”: A History of the Voice in the Transition from Silent to Sound Film in the United States" (Journal of Linguistic Anthropology Vol. 19 Issue 1, 2009), wherein Taylor frames her analysis of dialect/speech in early American media through the frame of the film Singin' in the Rain (1952). Taylor's critical analysis of the premise of Singin' in the Rain follows the qualities you identify for female actors of the period: their voices were often perceived as shrill or strident (and thus in need of coaching or adjustment of some kind). So, it's important to note that the ears of the 1950s were perceiving many of the same qualities you are perceiving. Piggybacking on Taylor's article, I would say that characters like Lucy from I Love Lucy may have been purposefully working from this expected auditory perception as a way to enhance/alter the visual aspects of her character so as to create a comic affect. (Personally, I think Lucille Ball was a genius at this, but I'll defer to anyone who knows more about her career and character/vocal choices.) As Taylor identifies: audience "expectations were, in many ways, determined by discourses around appropriate gender performance" (10). For more on these qualities and how their affect on listeners, I would suggest reading Women and Radio: Airing Differences (2014) on the history of women's elocution lessons, perceptions of the female voice, and early radio technology.
But back to your question: did actors choose to speak this way? The best answer is yes, they did. In the two sources I mentioned above, the authors do much to explain that socio-economic understandings of the early-twentieth century did much to shape the perception of gendered voices and dictated the ways in which actors were educated in dialects based upon their characters and audiences. So an actor with a background performing in Vaudeville shows was trained to reach a largely working-class immigrant audiences and would often employ dialects and accents that would reach those audiences to bring them toward a stronger comic affect. In addition to the sources above, I'll add Jane Hodson's book, Dialect in Film and Literature (2014) to the list of sources that explain how early film and radio had strong expectations for gendered voices that, for the most part, achieved the "proper" dialectal qualities of the mid-atlantic dialect (the socio-economic and cultural reasons for this are addressed--though not through an analysis of dialect--in Michele Hines' chapter, "The North Atlantic Triangle Britain, the USA and Canada in 1950s Television," in Transnational Television History: A Comparative Approach, 2012). With the growth in television ownership across the USA in the 1950s, the sitcom format began to do much of the same type of thing that Vaudeville was doing in the early part of the century: reach the working-class American and counter the affluent sound of the mid-atlantic dialect. The same types of acting strategies that worked for comic performances 30-50 years earlier were affective choices for the TV sitcom as well. I do not mean to suggest that a certain class of Americans actually spoke like TV sitcom characters, but it is a long tradition of comedy to employ exaggerated accents/dialects that give a character the perception of being "lower" or less intelligent so as to elevate their audience and make it easier for people to laugh at the ridiculous situations the character finds themself in. In summary, what you're hearing from those characters is likely exactly how the actor wanted you to hear it. But, in the 1950s this vocal quality probably held a stronger affect than it does today as comic expectations and affect changes with time (but that's not to say that sitcoms on the 1950s aren't still funny!).
That is what you hear. Now to what the actors are doing. First, in 1953 there were no wireless mic packs or lavs, and TV sets often didn’t have boom or shotgun mics for dialogue. They were very rarely looped to allow actors to overdub their lines, so actors were often cast from theater backgrounds for their ability to project both emotionally and physically. A good way to project your voice so that it is clear and audible is to narrow your vocal range and raise your register. This is what stage actors are trained to do. A rumbling low voice or a whispy or husky brogue is not going to carry like a clipped clean crisp voice.