Addendum: Most mestizos actually think of themselves as inferior to white people. It ends up resulting in some inferiority/superiority complex that makes race relations in Mexico really complicated. Mexico's president, AMLO, is really exploiting this at the moment, with the "unsaid part" basically being "mestizos need to do more to keep white people down and keep white people out of the country, because that's the only way mestizos can have their own country, because we don't believe we're able to compete with white people without protections." I can understand a lot of this as post-colonial inter-generational trauma, but it's still fucked and doesn't lead to racial healing.
Also, Maosim in the 50s and early 60s -- as MLK would've known it -- was quite a bit different than the Maoism as we know it today. Maoism was explicitly pro-democracy and generally a liberal ideology (or, at least, full of compromise between liberal socialists and illiberal socialists) and a lot of its rhetoric saw itself as not something to replace American-style Democracy, but as a supplement to it to correct its failings (failings which would be disastrous for a nation like China trying to escape feudalism). Western Maoists then often spoke of themselves as exemplifying the values of the American founding fathers, of French revolutionaries, etc., almost as if they're restoring a more pure version of the democracy originally envisioned, corrupted the industrial revolution and the subsequent rise of big capital.
Note: I don't use "moderate" here as "between left and right". It's used as "preferring reasoned and measured solutions for progress over radical solutions.".
?? I never said it was dipshit. I said they used it to whiten out black people. Same way they did it to the aboriginals in Australia. “That mixing was promoted by governments of those times as a method to, in a first era, make non-whites (amerindians and blacks) racially closer to whites to construct what was seen by the elite as a modern society; and in a second era, make them decline gradually through their "dilution" into a white majority that it was to become as such with the promotion of a mass immigration from Europe and Middle East that started to arrive since then (mid-19th century) until the 1940s. At the same time, non-whites frequently sought to have offspring with whites as a way to make their racially mixed child escape from slavery in the colonial period, and later, from discrimination”.
Intermarriage with non-whites was normal in Spanish colonial society, Spanish women were rarely brought to the colonies so the men had always intermarried with African or Amerindian women.
Mestizos often trace their lineage back to their Spanish ancestors, because unlike North America, where white men took white wives, Spanish colonizers skewed heavily male. They were there as conquerors, not as families, and so they took indigenous women as wives. They raised their children Spanish and that thread continues from then until now. It's why Latin identities in these countries are so all over the place. There are loads of statues of revolutionaries like Simon Bolivar, celebrated next to genocidal conquistadors like Hernan Cortez in Mexico City or Pedro de Valdivia in Chile. It parallels the adoration of Confederate statues in the US, with similar campaigns by socially-conscious citizens to have them removed.