If Turkey wasn't situated in a geostrategically important region, it wouldn't even be part of NATO given it's constant disputes with neighbors and domestic minorities.
That’s like saying that, because Turkey is regularly threatening an attacking the Kurds that it is really NATO that is doing it.
NATO played absolutely no role in the Iraq war. That was the US and several other countries. Those countries happen to be NATO members, but none of it was done with NATO’s strategic support.
I dont differentiate NATO with US, without US NATO is nothing, you say NATO wants stability, look how stable middle east is thanks to US. Remnants of gladio were present in my country until late 2000s, with the help of CIA asset gulenist movement they got rid of them but then erdogan and gulenists become enemies. You dont know the awful covert operations NATO done with their branch Gladio because you or your parents did not live in it. NATO s sole purpose was to defend europe against USSR. When USSR dissolved NATO needed to find new enemy to sustain their legitimacy, how convenient that war against global terrorism become a thing after that. Now im not sayin 9/11 was an inside job or anything. But US undirectly caused the rise of islamic terrorism, mainly al qaeda. NATO nations in my opinion could avoided ukraine war diplomatically but they also indirectly caused the ukraine war. This doesnt mean Russia is right to attack ukraine. Russia is the hostile side and in the wrong as an invading country. Foreign aid to ukraine is needed to defend ukraine and they should get foreign aid im not against that either. What NATO is doing right now is good but that dont redeem their past wrong doings. Im not only againts NATO im against all the military institutions. I have legitimate suspicion that western powers espacially US wanted ukraine war to happen and they could prevented it if they wanted to.
NATO is when after almost one year of war against Ukraine, the alliance is still not providing the necessary military support to defeat Russian aggression.
You can be against NATO and still support ukraine, NATO is not good guys ever in my opinion. But ofc im against countries invading another countries. NATO did exactly what russia did in afghanistan and iraq but that does not mean what russia is doing right now is ok.
What does one do with those who have more allegiance to Russia than the country they live in? Revoke their citizenship and deport them to Russia? Why live in Germany, or Ukraine, or wherever instead of Russia? These people have a pathway to citizen in Russia.