Sort of sure it took me a minute to see it and that's with everyone saying that the crossword having one in it. I mean they could have made it look a lot more like one if that was the intention.
He has been using calling people anti-Semitic when they criticize him or Israel for years now. So at this point I would argue that he almost doesn't have to say it to say it.
I'm not going to argue about this. You will believe what you believe. I choose to look at the data and the facts, and base my belief on it. Long live the people of Israel. All of them. May a path of peace be found, and healing slowly come to those who have been wronged by the perversion of a noble idea.
You must be able to separate the intentions of a movement and the facts. Any movement that is founded on the principle of one group of people being God's chosen people is a breeding ground for extremism and supremacy. There is well documented and inarguable evidence that Zionism has been politicized to fuel racism and destruction where there might not have been if the movement has not been subverted by government and military involvement.
I have been to Auschwitz and Dachau. I am deeply invested in the history and plight of the tribes, and the modern Jewish people. The way you presented your interpretation of Zionism, however, is a perfect example of how a bias has been engendered into its discussion that makes it difficult to talk about the exploitations, violence and oppression that Zionism empowered under corrupt Israeli officials. And to say the Zionism is "literally just" one thing, the hope for a homeland, you are either unaware of choosing willful ignorance because of your bias.
Seem your problem is not with the ethnostate part but with the Jewish part , I don't see you condem the actual ethnostates in the middle east just the Jewish country.
Don't call Israel an "Apartheid Ethnostate" when other Middle Eastern Nations are Ethnostates that ethnically cleansed their Jews. Meanwhile, Israel has Arab Doctors, Arab Politicians, Arab Lawyers, etc. Arabic is an official language in Israel alongside Hebrew and English. Not to mention the Palestinian population in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip has drastically increased since the 50s. How is an increase in population considered "genocide"?