One thing that's often glossed over in school courses - and I say that as someone who teaches them - is that 'Greek Religion' and 'Roman Religion' (or even, perish the thought, 'Greco-Roman Religion' are not simple, single, fixed ideas. Both varied considerably over time, where you were, and who you were. I'm going to talk a bit about Greek religion first to lay some groundwork, and then try to describe what happens when it collides with Roman religion.
Reading my answer again, I think there might be a danger of setting up Greek religion as a complex, incredibly localised and completely decentralised thing, which then collides with a simple, coherent body of belief called 'Roman Religion'. That would be a mistake - Roman religion was just as complex and contradictory, and was also subject to major changes over time.
Roman Religion is complex, and it changed over time. It's not a pure 1:1 parallel. In the Early Republic, Rome's gods were a mix of their native cults and a number of imported Hellenistic figures, though not necessarily from the "official" Greek Pantheon.
So using the above, we can already see that an Olympian god can have multiple Roman-specific aspects rather than just being completely cloned from the Greek version (also worth noting, of course, that Minerva's name is essentially Etruscan in origin...).
For instance, if we look into the history and etymology of the Roman god Minerva, thought to be the equivalent of the Greek's Athena, she actually has origins from the Etruscan culture. Etruscan culture also existed in Italy (Tuscan region) prior to when the Roman's were first thought to have settled (and perhaps originated from if we don't take Virgil's Aeneid at face value). Here she was known locally as Menrva. It is thought that over the centuries she took on more and more of the common epithets & ritualistic traits known from Athena, eventually becoming the Minerva/Athena that was born from the head of Jupiter/Zeus. It is also thought that perhaps when Rome was founded - likely by a few Etruscan men in the area - Menrva came with them to form the backbone of the newly forming Roman culture. Her worship can also be dated back to the founding of Rome in the 8th-7th century BCE where she formed part of the Capitoline Triad along with Jupiter and Juno (who also likely came from the Etruscan pantheon where they were known as Tinia and Uni, respectively). Who she represented then is largely unknown as we don't have much written history pertaining to the early days of Rome, but it's likely that the early Minerva of Rome's foundation was completely different from the Minerva of the Republican era, and this Minerva was different to the Minerva of the Imperial era. It's likely that throughout the centuries, the gods were adapted and altered as the Romans came into contact with other cultural groups, and even more likely that the gods were Hellenized by the Romans to give them a more courageous & interesting backstory like the Greeks boasted so that the Romans could look even more prestigious and favored by the gods than their Greek rivals.
The Romans engaged in a practice called interpretatio Romana, where they 'interpreted' others' gods as reflections or misunderstandings of their own, and so worshipped them either as alternate names or as epithets of their own gods. Hence we see dedications made at ancient Celtic shrines of Sulis to 'Sulis Minerva', as the Romans 'interpreted' Sulis as their goddess Minerva. It's an interesting question to think about what was going through the heads of people worshipping at that site - are they just worshipping their old gods, and paying lip service to the Roman names? Or is there something fundamentally significant about doing even that in a Roman temple, in Latin, surrounded by Roman statues? Interpretatio is certainly an act of imperialism - by 'claiming' gods and situating them within the Roman pantheon, it turns their worship into an act of integration into Roman culture, and reduces any opportunity to use those gods as a locus of non-Roman identity, or as a focus of resistance to Rome.
You've made a really important point here, that Roman religion is not driven from the centre - it couldn't be, except on a very small scale and in a very ad hoc way, and you're right that official and imperial attempts to change the Roman religious landscape didn't usually work too well. However, I don't think there's a contradiction between acknowledging that and seeing interpretatio as part of the imperial project.
Is interpretatio part of the imperial project, or a primarily local phenomenon? (thanks again u/Tiako ).