The English word slave did in fact derive from the name for Slavs, but your friend's connection to the vikings is mistaken. The word thrall, as you note, was connected to the vikings, but both words probably entered the English language through Christian religious use, with the word slave first appearing well after the Viking Age (ca. 790-1060) had come to a close.
But slave raiding was a key element of viking raiding beginning in the late 700s, and speakers of Old English needed a way to differentiate victims of exploitative slaving from their own servants tied to the land. They borrowed the Old Norse term þræll to help distinguish the victims such intensified forms of slaving. Variants on the word thrall first start showing up in English texts in the late 900s, so toward the end of the Viking Age. Some of the earliest uses are actually in biblical translations and commentaries, where churchman used the Norse term to describe the intense forms of Roman slavery recorded in the Bible, as opposed to the looser forms of servitude suggested by Old English terms for slavery. The borrowing of Old Norse þræll survives in modern English words like thrall and enthralled.
As said in my answer here, the word was never entirely replaced; the direct descendant of Old Norse _þræll_, which is _træl_ remains a common term in Danish, Norwegian and Swedish. Mainly it's undergone a narrowing where _træl_ came to refer to the historic Scandinavian form and _slav_ came to be the principal term first for Transatlantic slavery (from the 1600s) but ultimately for slavery in general.
As I also said, _slavar_ ('slavs') as a word for Slavic peoples really only came about in Scandinavian languages in the Early Modern period as well (17th century) and isn't really much older than the term for slaves. Neighboring Slavic people were generally _venðr_ ('Wends') in Old Norse, and the closest thing to a term for 'Slav'. (although it was not used for instance to refer to Bulgarian, Old Norse _Bolgarar_).
Another basic problem here is that Old Norse did not any cognate of the word 'slav' as a term for Slavic peoples. That's an early modern loan (so the 'slave'-word is actually older in Scandinavian languages than 'slav'). The Viking Age term for the Slavic people of the south Baltic was _vinðr_ (euqating to _Wends_), but was also used for Slavic peoples farther away in Russia, and so could be seen as having a broader meaning roughly equivalent to 'Slavic'.
If the eastern slave trade affected Norse vocabulary it would appear to be more through the trade itself, with words like _torg_ (Old Norse and modern Scandinavian for 'market', 'market square', which is a Slavic loan. But of course, the trade in the east was not limited to slaves; Scandinavia had fur and other commodities which were exported to Byzantium.
I take it from your answers here that while Slavs were enslaved and traded, they were infrequently brought to Skandinavia itself as slaves, let alone to the British Isles?
- Secondly, can you hazard a guess on how and when did the word "slave" replace the word "thrall" in Skandinavian countries (excluding Iceland)?
\- Secondly, can you hazard a guess on how and when did the word "slave" replace the word "thrall" in Skandinavian countries (excluding Iceland)?
One might add (to answer the OP) here, that the loaned cognates of 'slave' in Swedish Danish and Norwegian, which entered the language in the late Middle Ages through Middle Low German, did not replace the native term 'træl' from Old Norse _þræll_. It's still in common use, with the domestic term mainly being used for slavery in north Europe and the latter for everywhere else and slavery in general. Not strictly though, and a lot of people (myself included) use both words in Norse contexts if only to emphasize they're the same thing, lest people think the native term is a euphemism.