When the armistice came, the Futurists took position in favorof the Italian territorial aspirations – albeit not on the grounds of the miserly, greedy imperialistic aspirations of the nationalists and national-conservatives, but due to their sentiment of Italy's greatness which pushed them to embrace a form of “spiritual imperialism”. They lined up with Mussolini to heckle and hoot the socialist reformer Bissolati (one of the few supporters of Wilson's proposals) at the famous La Scala soiree of January 6^th 1919). When the Bolshevik revolution impacted the Italian political scene, the Futurists – despite a certain fascination with the more “modern-authoritarian” forms of the Bolshevik policies – embraced a violent anti-Bolsehvism in so far as internal politics were concerned. The mob which assaulted the Avanti! building on April 15^th 1919 was led by the ardito-futurista Ferruccio Vecchi, and Marinetti – who had already participated to the foundation of the first Fascio di Combattimento in Milan some three weeks earlier – openly celebrated the initiative as a sign of national awakening.
As the numerous references reveal, the most extensive examination of the ideology of (Italian) fascism is the one provided by Emilio Gentile, who has spent more or less the last 45 years working on the subject, and is widely regarded as one of the main exponents of the "culturalist" approach to fascist studies (albeit not everyone is equally on board with it). Many of his works have not been translated into English, though. Which might make his treatment less "accessible".
All that said, identifying the Futurists with fascism tout court would not be correct – and that regardless of those, relatively few, futurists who sooner or later openly distanced themselves from Fascism – as the Futurists, despite Marinetti's attempts to form a proper political organization during 1918-19 (indeed the Futurists were a few months ahead of any other Italian political force in so far as the publication of a postwar political program, coming in early 1918), were never a proper “political” force, with their main exponents (Vecchi, whose dubious talents earned him both early notoriety and an eventual criminal record; and above all the future gerarca and leading fascist intellectual Giuseppe Bottai) becoming, de facto, fascists as soon as Fascism acquired a definite political identity and consistency. As a consequence the Futurists could only provide fascism with a key note – a lead – a series of themes which declined their own particular view of “modernity”, and with those a collection of imageries, of symbols, tying the practices of the fascist immediate “community-building” to the imagined “new community” of the fascist state.
The comparison may not be a flattering one, and should not lead us to look at Fascism as purely brutish, obtuse, anti-intellectual out of ignorance, but rather it should alert us to the fact that, at the time when Fascism appeared, at the end of the Great War, and as well at the turn of the Century, when many of its original influences developed, the coherent formulation of a system – whether philosophical, ideological or political – appeared to many as a thing of the past, unnecessary or entirely to be rejected, and the grand, complex machineries of positive thought, something to be broken down and scrapped for parts. In this specific environment, Fascism may appear more attuned to the intellectual sensibility of its age than one might believe at first glance.
Furthermore one should also be wary of insisting too much on the “incoherence” of Fascism as evidence of its fundamental ideological vacuity. Incoherent it may very well have been – and this should inspire caution, and plenty of it, to those who wish to seek the ideology of Fascism in a purely abstract fashion, through the examination of its “sacred texts” and accurate calibration of scholarly glosses – but its lack of coherence does not allow one to conclude, somewhat conveniently, that there is nothing to be learned in the examination of its untidy ideological shelves.
In the words of historian Emilio Gentile, disregarding any ideological manifestation of Fascism just because we can conveniently and effectively point out that it makes for a poor, incoherent and ill-conceived ideology, would be.
Critics of the "culturalist" turn - such as Traverso or Neocleos - have remarked how this approach tends to underestimate the "anticommunist" elements in the fascist worldview. They are correct, of course - even if I struggle to see how an examination of the prewar roots of fascist ideology could dedicate much attention to "anticommunism" - but I don't think their criticism hits the right mark. That "fascist ideology", more than a precise system or expression of structural changes in the socio-economical sphere, consisted of a series of processes which allowed to connect themes and the evolving reality. By returning to my musical analogy, the fascist ideology doesn't appear as the themes alone, nor as one exact and precise representation; but resides in the arrangement technique employed to accommodate those themes to different interpreters, audiences and circumstances.
Which is not to say that we should regard Fascism as a mere empty vessel, ready to receive whatever convenient ideological fragments the ongoing political, social and economical events had produced, and therefore as an inherently opportunistic political formulation. Fascism certainly had ideological elements which characterized it, but not in the form of an ideological foundation – if I were to try and describe it in abstract terms, I'd say it had a “non ideological” or even “anti-ideological” ideological core, where a rejection of ideological formulations came first, and before the subsequent rationalization of pragmatism. In this sense, Fascism did, quite often, and by design, approach the solution of a fundamental antinomy by ignoring it.
In this regard, both the identification of Futurism and Fascism, and the idea that the Futurists accepted Fascism in every regard would be incorrect. But Futurists never rejected the Fascist Regime – nor challenged the fundamental claims of Fascism, neither in regard to its role in relation to Italian history, to its “modernity”, to its representation of a “new state”. Some of them were (or chose to be) sidelined; but others (Marinetti above all) remained close to a Regime which, besides providing them with an unprecedented degree of recognition and with significant “artistic” opportunities, was also as close to their ideal of “modernity” as they could realistically expect. They had been, after all, one of the most vocal and representative – albeit numerically quite modest – forces of that general sentiment (more than a concrete political proposal) which E. Gentile has described as “national radicalism”, and which took impulse after the turn of the Century, drawing its energies from the “historical” and cultural roots of European fascism, in the same way that other (but not all) European vanguards interacted with declining authoritarianism and militarism.
That "fascism was born in France" is already a claim that would need - in my opinion - a series of qualifications; but that fascism was already fully formed at the eve of the Great War, as an ideological system, is a claim very few would accept; whether they are proponent of the culturalist approach, Marxists, structuralists or political scientists.
Both the Italian Futurists and the German vanguards (I'd rather not anger any expert of German art; forgive a certain degree of simplification) found their affirmation in contrast to a “traditional” art, identified in Italy with the liberal state, and in Germany with the Wilhelmine Reich. They were therefore both carriers of instances of “modernity”; but while the former were closely identified with Weimar, the latter were just as closely identified with the force which had taken down the liberal state, that is with fascism itself.
Just the same, to say that the Regime “accepted” Futurism is not entirely correct: Futurism evolved, changing to remain “in touch” with Fascism, becoming in many ways almost an “official” artistic expression. A comparison between the works of Balla or Boccioni in the early 1910s and the aeropittura of the early 1930s should reveal a degree of transformation, of adaptation (and, to an extent “institutionalization”) even to the untrained eye. The old futurist art – no longer new, and no longer vanguard – took solace in its identification with the great achievement of the Regime: the grandiose “air cruises” across the Atlantic, the celebrations for the ten years anniversary of the revolution, the conquest of Ethiopia. Not entirely Futurist – properly speaking – but an art “of the Regime” and “for the Regime”, of which the Futurists could pride themselves with having been the heralds and forerunners. Perhaps not standing at the threshold of the centuries, but close enough to the threshold of fascism.
A bit off topic: I'm currently reading through your posts on this sub (love them) and you seem very knowledgeable on (italian) Fascism. Can you recommend any books for laymen on the ideology of Fascism? I'm a very theory-oriented guy and struggle to understand the theoretical foundations of this ideology. Thank you!