Thanks for the in-depth explanation. I was aware of the pneumonic form of plague and that it could spread from person to person in that form, however several of the sites I was reading on it said that the pneumonic form was substantially less common than the bubonic form, so I naturally assumed that most historical plague outbreaks were primarily people getting the bubonic form. However, it now occurs to me that the sources I was reading were probably saying that the pneumonic form is substantially less common in the present day. Perhaps this was not always the case historically, and I was mistaken to assume that the commonality of each of the three types would remain the same throughout history. Do you know anything about that?
Also, while I agree that the idea that being around sick people would spread the sickness to a healthy person probably wasn't that difficult to figure out, I did find it interesting that Defore also seemed to be aware that an infected person could spread a disease for up to two weeks before experiencing any symptoms themselves. The contagious but asymptomatic incubation period seems like it would be harder to grasp without the context of Germ Theory.
I am just curious whether smallpox would've been called "leprosy" in those times or whether they knew that as a separate disease?
When it comes to leprosy, there is high chance that smallpox (variola) could have, indeed mistaken for leprosy, as it tended to be a largely a blanket term for visible skin conditions. There is even a theory that majority of the depictions of people considered to be lepers might actually be people suffering from smallpox. Significant number of such depictions focus on the small, numerous blisters on the skin of the afflicted person that are not really that similar to the lesions typical for leprosy but are quite close to those found in smallpox. This, of course, can be attributed to the ignorance of the artists who might have known the disease from oral descriptions and similarly inaccurate depictions but late 14th century sculpture of Saint Eleazar of Sabran (originally adorning the sarcophagus in the French city of Apt, now in display in Walters Art Museum in Baltimore) or a drawing of a Leper made by Hans Holbein the Elder in the late 15th century show large, irregular lesions and disfigurements that portray leprosy quite accurately. It should also be noted that the terms we use now more precisely, were often used a blanket term and thus e.g. syphilis that emerged in the very late 15th century was often called 'great pox' (also 'French pox' in some regions). Another viable clue is that the 'lepers' were generally sent to a form of closed communities, where they could work and support together while being separated from the general population. This would be quite beneficial for people who suffered severe deterioration or even complete loss of sight that is a very common complication among smallpox survivors, especially in regions lacking adequate treatment. Additionally, very severe cases of smallpox (like the one on the top of English Wikipedia page) can be very similar to severe cases of leprosy for the untrained eye, making the mistake all the more possible.
Touati, F.-O., Maladie et societe au moyen age. La lepre, les lepreux et les leproseries dans la province ecclesiastique de Sens jusqu'au millieu de XIVe siecle \[Sickness and the society in the Middle Ages. Leprosy, lepers and leprosaries in the ecclesiastical province of Sens in the mid-14th century\]. Paris, 1998.