Apology for being offtopic but it seems that you would be able to answer one of my unanswered previous question: how familiar would an average educated Greek living in the Ottoman Constantinople, and other regions of Greece be with what we would consider classics of the Greek literature, e.g., works of Homer, Hesiod, Sophocles? Thanks.
This was wonderful thank you. As somebody that's interested in Indo-European languages, I had wondered about this but it never occurred to me how the answer lies in simple imperial history.
Curiously, Armenian is a language that's similarly left no descendants but with an entirely different imperial history from the Greeks.
From what little I know about the topic, research on Greek loanwords in Armenian is complicated by the fact that these languages are hypothesized (at least by some scholars) to have descended from a common ancestor.
The dual standard of imperial Greek - Koine in everyday use, Attic in literary contexts - survived into late antiquity and beyond. The Byzantine Empire retained, if only in Constantinople, the essentials of the Roman educational system, founded on memorization and imitation of a small canon of ancient masterpieces. Although spoken Greek drifted steadily away, shifting its sounds and simplifying its syntax, literature continued to be written in stylized Koine or the author’s best stab at Attic, and the unchallenged prestige of the ancient models prevented a rupture between literary and vernacular usage.
Let's start with a thought experiment. Imagine that the Western Roman Empire survived for another thousand years. Maybe Adrianopole went the other way; maybe one of the fifth-century emperors managed to stop the parade of civil wars that ruined the state. We might imagine all sorts of political scenarios - a strong and centralized Empire, a Roman commonwealth, etc. - but we can be sure of one thing: the Western Empire would have used Latin to the bitter end. Spoken Latin would probably still have evolved in the direction of the Romance languages; but since the imperial elite would have continued to uphold the Classical standard as the only "correct" form of Latin, the change would have been much slower. And since there would have been only a single reference point for linguistic correctness, the Romance languages themselves – in the sense of recognized and prestigious alternatives to Latin – would never have come into existence.