A standard feature of business tax deductions is depreciation of assets. You buy a vehicle, or a computer, for your business, and you get to depreciate the cost in your taxes over a standard number of years, because trucks and laptops wear out, or become obsolete.
So my company gets to buy houses, and take depreciation, then after a while, when it works for my company’s business, I turn around and sell the property for 30% more than I paid for it. In the Seattle market, that would have been about five years! In those five years, I’ve written off 18% of the cost of acquisition from my company’s taxes. This depreciation gives a business a significant advantage over an individual who wants to buy a house to live in, because if you live there, it’s effectively cost you 18% MORE to own that house than it cost my business to buy it and rent it out. So, even if the house doesn’t appreciate at all, I’ve still made a profit that you would never see, so it makes sense for my company to buy residential real estate even in a flat market.
Whereas if you just unchain the market and let the developers do their thing and increase supply, that's also the sort of thing that would make it less profitable to sit on property while having it be vacant - because property values would decrease due to the increased supply.
It's just that supply is so restricted that we could simply cut zoning (and not safety) restrictions and over the medium to long term allow substantially more housing to be constructed, which would provide downward pressure, and all at no cost to the government (while also increasing density, which would have its own benefits in various other ways with allowing more efficiency in transportation, provision of law enforcement, climate impact, and other things too).
If zoning laws, around WWII, limited the accessibility of brand new wartime housing and neighborhoods exclusively to whites, and essentially establishing ghettos, offering shitty run down old properties to Blacks, Asians, Hispanics, and other minorities whom also served…you can get zoning laws to limit the corporate entities that can own the property, to begin with. Thus, the general public can allot more control in a local level on how much volume of land can be used for rentals. If in a situation exists where the local economy needs to increase or decrease rental property eligibility then the community has a say. You don’t hurt developers much by slapping a tax, they increase the rents. What you want is to minimize the opportunity for companies like BlackRock to buy the properties to begin with…or at least make it a vehement pain in the ass to do so. Taxes don’t balance oligarchs for fuck, they can always make a quick buck while you struggle to pay rent.