You've already got some good answers. To try to add a bit on the Norwegian side of things, what has been represented by nationalist romantics as religious resistance looks more like a political conflict now. Nothing's that simple, though; to take the pivotal conflict of the Norwegian conversion, the royal saga represents it as instigated by a case of pagan honour ethics causing rebellion against a christian king. But the same ethics existed on "both sides". When the exiled St. Olaf returned to reclaim his throne, christians and pagans fought on both sides. That may give us a glimpse of what the freemen of this period actually felt about the conversion - while religion (any religion) and politics are completely inseparable in this period, politics clearly took the front seat in this case. The conflict was the landowners' war against an illegitmate king, not a religious war.
Part of the reason we keep getting the impression that paganism continued, apart from the romantic appeal of searching for secret underground cults, is that "pagan" beliefs were intimate, inextricable parts of daily life; medical systems, agricultural calendar events, life rites and so on continued but were recast in christian terms. Some of these useful but "apolitical" everyday beliefs had probably been through exchanges like this before - possibly many times; from christian to pagan and back and forth, or even roman pagan to germanic pagan. One example is the magical-medical recipe tradition, maintained by the clergy even past the reformation. It was a tradition shared by English and Saxon christians. The names invoked swapped out and the meters morphing and wandering according to fashion and language drift. Trying to pin down an "original" or "authentic" internally coherent system of beliefs in this continent-spanning spaghetti bowl of superstitions is unlikely to ever be possible, even if a vast cache of new sources suddenly become available. Even medieval christianity, with its papal authority, councils and written records, starts to look a bit ragged at the edges under modern scrutiny.
After 900 years of transmission by devout catholics and lutherans, it's pretty much impossible to get these folk traditions to tell us much about the religion of pagans in the viking age beyond recognising an influence, pathway to our time unknown - for all we know, it could all come out of lost popular literature from the 1500's. The idea of a continuous, authentic or "pure" tradition transmitted from that time becomes meaningless over this timespan. In some ways, the 19th century romantics did as much to scramble our knowledge of the transmission history of supernatural beliefs as record it. The nature of folk religion - organic, oral, hyper-local - is such that even if we imagine the conversion never happened, these beliefs would likely have changed as much or even more over the centuries. Today they would have been as unrecogniseable to medieval pagans as medieval paganism would have looked to bronze age sun cultists.
If you're more curious about the transition from paganism to Christianity among the Norse, I have written several answers that might be of some help!
Then there's the religion itself; Old Norse religion (which we really know quite little about how it was practiced) was likely more tolerant of Christianity than vice versa, which also may have incentivized conversion.
The people asking often seem to have difficulty understanding how and why the Norsemen could abandon their beliefs. The reason for that is because they're in more of a 19th century state of mind rather than the 9th. What I mean is, just because the nationalist romantics decided that pre-Christian religion was a core part of their identity as a people, does mean the Viking Age Scandinavians themselves felt that way. On the contrary the fact that there wasn't much resistance would seem to indicate it _wasn't_.