Lock your credit with the 3 major credit reporting agencies. Transunion, Experian and Equifax. This will prevent anyone from using your social security number to open a line of credit.
A credit freeze, stops others and you from opening new accounts. So if someone tries to open a credit card using your info the freeze would prevent it. You are still able to use your current credit cards you have open.
Open a new bank account and start having your paychecks go to that, and move the money from the old account to the new one, then update all your autopay accounts and credit cards to the new bank.
When you open your new account, which you should do as soon as possible, make it at a different bank. On occasion, banks will make transfers that they shouldn't because they can see that the people are in the same family. If your account is at a totally different bank, that's not going to happen.
Ask for an "account switch" or "account reassignment" as institutions may use either term. You don't need to provide a reason. You'll receive a new account number and cards, if you have any, to match. And your aunt will not be join on this account. You can also ask for a credit report. Every institution relies on one of the three bureaus. If your aunt is willing to steal from you, then I wouldn't put it past her. If any activity looks suspect, ask for a credit freeze until you get it sorted out.
There's no issue with minors having deposit accounts. Past that, it gets complicated. As you stated, and as the linked website points out, most institutions won't bother with full accounts for minors. If you can find a single institution that would allow for full checking and a debit card for a minor, with no adult co-signer, I'd be both shocked and impressed.
A minor needs to have an adult (someone over the age of majority) on their account. The industry calls this "joint" or "custodial", depending on specific circumstances. In either situation, the aforementioned adult needs to willingly take themselves off the account once the minor is old enough to assume direct control.