If you're not entirely sure what a consul was in the 19th century, take a peek at our bonus . There's both audio and a full transcript at the link. tl;dr Consuls were responsible for commerce and the welfare of US American sailors, and less involved with formal diplomacy between state leaders.
Did consuls bring American racial ideas/politics with them to other countries or would they follow the norms at their assigned post? How did consul reports from other continents inform American ideas about race abroad?
As to whether consuls shaped American ideas about race abroad, that's less clear to me. Consuls didn't have a lot of cultural power--they were mostly writing back to the Secretary of State, and few of them had the public status to be able to shape the public consciousness. There are a few exceptions, like literary personas such as Nathaniel Hawthorne or Frederick Douglass later in the century, but for the most part I would guess (and it is mostly a guess, so take that for what it's worth) that if consuls shaped American ideas about race it was purely in an ethnographic sense.
As to the specific mechanics, yes, we're a small, non-funded shop. The director of the Center has paid for a few tools that have our lives a lot easier, but unlike all other Center projects, it's not currently grant-funded, because we're using this as a pilot project to open the door for other audio projects. In terms of how we get contributors, we're just really annoying about bugging people. . Just kidding. But people are very willing to talk about their research with us--and the interviews are so fun. So really we just have a big pile of names that we could talk to for each episode, and we go down the list till we have enough that we think we can tell the story in a rich way. At the moment, we're almost having to back off on the expert interviews--there are so many people we want to talk to but a limited amount of air time. So I'd say that mostly getting people lined up to talk to us has been a matter of just asking. We can't pay them, but that's pretty standard for podcast interviews, and it gives them a chance to talk about their work to an audience that they might not otherwise reach. So it's a win-win. (That's also why we really like talking to a mix of early-career scholars like graduate students and more senior scholars--they all have something to bring to the table.).
2. How much did the personal political leanings of consuls impact their decision-making, and how personally invested did they get in the local and regional politics where they were assigned? Apparently part of the reason for the aforementioned rivalry was that Marshall was a pro-Qing Southerner while Perry was a pro-Taiping Northerner, and again, I'm wondering how far consuls also acted based on personal politics, and how widespread this may have been?