It does not help that the centuries separating the development of an Ainu culture in Hokkaido after 660 from Shakushain’s rebellion in 1669 are only sketchily illuminated, more so by anthropology and archaeology than by the historian’s craft. But it is now generally agreed that the Ainu moshir–”Ainu-land”–remained culturally distinct throughout this period. The Ainu were hunters, not gatherers; they fished for salmon and tracked bear and deer. Religious life centered on shamans and an annual bear festival, during which (it was believed) the divine spirit of a captured bear was freed by sacrificing it. The main exports of Ainu-land were hawks, bears’ livers and dried fish, which were exchanged for metalware, lacquer bowls, sake and the rice that was so hard to grow in northern latitudes. Meanwhile, the Japanese presence on Hokkaido remained almost entirely confined to a tiny enclave on the island’s southernmost promontory.
Hokkaido is such a familiar feature on maps of Japan that it is easy to forget what a recent addition it is to both the nation and the state. It does not appear in Japanese chronicles until around 1450, and was not formally incorporated into greater Japan until 1869. As late as 1650, the island was known as “Ezo,” and was a distant frontier zone, only tenuously controlled from Edo (modern Tokyo). Even in the 1740s, Tessa Morris-Suzuki notes, maps of the region still showed it “disappearing over the horizon and petering out in a splash of unconvincing islands.” And while it seems always to have possessed a small population of Japanese hunters and merchants, Hokkaido was home to, and for the most part run by, a significantly larger group of indigenous tribes known collectively as the Ainu.
By the beginning of "Japan" we have two distinct "natives" to the country: one from the indigenous Jomon hunter–gatherers and the other from East Asian rice farmers who first migrated into the archipelago about 2,300 years ago (Yayoi). Genetic data supports this model in two main regards. First, the genetic profile of the mainland Japanese reveals a strong signature of admixture, best modeled as a mixture of ainu-related ancestry and continental East Asians. Second, the ainu are genetically closer to the Ryukyuians from the southernmost islands of the Japan than to the mainland Japanese. This suggests that inhabitants of the northern and southernmost parts of the archipelago were genetically most isolated from the incoming farmers who first arrived in the central part of the archipelago.