The likely explanation is that Social Scientists and National Governments just use different vocabularies to talk about this stuff.
So was the famine a genocide? It's complicated. We have two main factors to consider, and both involve intent. Question one. Was the intent of the British in formulating their Irish policy during the famine to eliminate the Irish people? Question two. What actually is a genocide, and does intent matter?
Um ... uhhhh ... was this genocide? I mean, it has to be, right? And yeah. I totally think it is. The people targeted were deprived of culture, security, health, and life. They were targeted for reasons of ethnic and cultural intolerance. We have the framer of the law saying that it was implemented with the express intention of exterminating certain groups of people, on the basis that such groups are inherently undesirable. Seems like an open-and-shut case. This is genocide, plain and simple. And, as previously established, the Irish famine wasn't genocide, because unlike the case with the Criminal Tribes Act and Thuggee culls, there's no proof of intent to eliminate the Irish as a people.
Similarly I don't really get saying "The idea that the Famine was a genocide is entirely rejected by historians of Ireland, yet still persists in the popular imagination - akin to the Irish Slaves Myth".
I've read about some of the history of that famine, and I've sort of tentatively come to the conclusion that it's a similar genocide edge case like the Irish famine and the Holodomor; an argument could be made that there wasn't enough specifically ethnically/racially motivated intent, but it could also be reasonable to consider them genocide, one for which Great Britain and especially Churchill could be held responsible.
Actually, when you first mentioned the context of being Bengali to make a comparison to the Irish famine, I thought you were going to talk about a different event, one that I'm particularly interested in as a comparison to both the Holodomor and the Irish famine: the Bengal famine of 1943.
Are you familiar enough the history of the 1943 Bengal famine to comment on the comparison, or happen to know of any texts/scholars evaluating British responsibility/intent or comparing it to those other famines? Is my (only mildly informed) comparison reasonable, or am I overlooking some major factor in that famine that distinguishes it from the other historical cases?