“Her husband, a Ukrainian soldier, died defending Kherson’s Antonivskyi bridge on the first day of full-scale war, she said. During several interrogations in the spring, Russian forces submerged her hands in boiling water, pulled out her fingernails and beat her in the face with rifle butts so badly she needed plastic surgery, according to Minenko.”.
I can imagine russian POWs getting a serious beating if they were captured in an area that it was known the russians had been brutalising the populations or if a AFU soldier had lost his friends to them, and I can imagine 'officers' getting waterboarded during interrogations. I can imagine many other things - but they're done for 'tactical' reasons, no matter how horrible they are - not for amusement or to terrorise the population. But the Ukrainians know that the continued support of the West relies on then appearing to lay be the rules and if a few graphic instances of torture hit the media support would evaporate. And if/when they win there's going to be lots of investigations and their getting into the EU etc will ride to those. The very fact that the russians won't allow anyone at all to see their POW camps is telling.
I wish the UN wouldn't release blanket statements like 'It has found instances of torture on both sides....'. That shit just encourages the idiots.
While I don't doubt for a minute there has been cases of torture of russian POWS, it's not the systemic torture and rape of civilians of all ages and genders.
They found a torture chamber a few weeks ago that the Russians had set up specifically for torturing children.
Edit: I’ve looked into it a bit more. The initial reports that I saw suggested that it had been set up specifically for kids. However, the reports out now say that it was an adult torture center that had a cell specifically for kids where they were starved and abused. According to victims, it seems that the kids were mainly subjected to mental torture: telling them that their parents had abandoned them and forcing them to scrub the blood from the room where the actual torture took place.