The Nazi regime subjected millions of people to violence, starvation, exploitation of labor, imprisonment, and murder but no other group was targeted so systematically and with such totality than the Jews and "gypsies". These key differences become apparent when we look at how this was put in practice. While the Nazis did indeed start killing handicapped and disabled Germans before they started killing Jews, they did not pressure foreign governments to hand over their handicapped for example as they did with Jews. The fact that the Nazi government exerted diplomatic pressure on the Imperial Japanese government to hand over the 18.000 Jews in Shanghai demonstrates that for the Nazis even a comparatively small number of Jews thousands of miles away from any of their territory represented such a danger to them in their minds that they had to die.
This all does in no way minimize or trivialize the horrors and cruelty of how the Nazis treated their non-Jewish victims. Soviets and Poles, handicapped and mentally ill people, Communists and Socialists, Jehovah's Witnesses and homosexuals, all suffered tremendously under the Nazis and unimaginable numbers of them were killed. They all need to be remembered.
The term "The Holocaust" in its most common usage in popular culture and academia is generally understood and defined as the systematic, bureaucratic, state-sponsored persecution and murder of six million Jews and up to half a million Roma, Sinti, and other groups persecuted as "gypsies" by the Nazi regime and its collaborators. During the time of the Holocaust the Nazis also targeted other groups on grounds of their perceived "inferiority", such as the disabled and Slavs, and on grounds of their religion, ideology or behavior among them Communists, Socialists, Jehovah's Witnesses and homosexuals.
The focus of this definition on Jews and more recently so-called gypsies as well as the common association of the term Holocaust with the murder of six million Jews in Europe results from the difference in persecutorial practice and the totality of the planned annihilation of the Jews by the Nazis.
And so, the killing of the Soviet Jews was nothing less than central to the Holocaust while the totality of Soviet victims (including Jews) are usually understood under the "war of annihilation" metric.
The linked answers go into much more detail then I can, but TLDR; When Nazi Germany waged war against the Soviet Union, they viewed it as a war of annihilation aimed at the Judeo-Bolsheviks, and the killing of Jews in the Soviet Union was central to their strategy. This idea that the Jews posed a central threat to the survival of Nazi Germany was what drove the Holocaust.
Was Hitler just that obsessed with the thought of the Jewry collaborating with their enemies and sabotaging the war or something?
It baffles me to think of Hitler's theories that Jewish Bolsheviks were responsible for th e downfall of Germany during WW1. Did he have any basis for this thought? What was his basis?