I did report the abuse once. Never did it again. County sheriff flat out said he didn't know what my problem was because the abuser "seems like such a nice guy". I was bleeding and had bruising, including around my neck. He then said he was only arresting him because the law required him to arrest someone in that case. Prosecutor lowered charges, after talking to the sheriff. Yeah, great laws 🙄.
Good laws? Are you a woman or a woman presenting person? Because the laws are shit for domestic abuse, especially when the cops themselves are huge perpetrators of domestic violence towards wives and girlfriends.
Another huge problem is the fact that until recently, things like financial abuse, emotional abuse, anything other than physical abuse were not considered domestic violence in the eyes of the law.
Really the BEST laws are laws that punish domestic violence, to prevent extreme scenarios from happening in the first place, imo. From what I've read about domestic violence, the best deterrent is long prison sentences. Using policy to create more and better resources for victims to be able to leave would be great too.
So what do you do if you are in that scenario? You wait until he stops and is distracted, his back is turned, or when he's asleep, etc. When you know you can win. And that usually gets women convicted. We really need better laws to accommodate victims of abuse.
I saw a couple comments in here about self-defense, and I want to make a quick comment about it because a lot of people are surprised that women get convicted of a crime when they kill or hurt their abusers. Self-defense often isn't a usable defense for abused women. In most states, someone has to be actively attacking you when you kill them for it to be legally viable. So you have to be IN a fight. A lot of abused women won't fight back while they're being hurt because: 1) they can't or are not strong enough 2) they're too scared, and can't overcome the mental hurdles of killing someone AND furthermore killing someone they are afraid of.
But this isn't just on the police, it's on the whole legal system being unwilling to step up to protect women because it's difficult.