I can't fully answer your question, but I can give some extra context on a few points that I believe satisfies Askhistorian's requirements, as well as link you to some prior posts by flaired users touching on some elements of this that will hopefully be helpful.
I'm not really equipped to comment on what the academic consensus is on the exact roles and claims you bring up, I'll leave that to 400-rabbits and others, but hopefully my comment at least gives some extra context.
It's important to note though that, to my knowledge most sources on Aztec religion and nontraditional gender roles written at the time, regardless of city, describe it as something either dimmly viewed or outright punishable via execution. series of comments by /u/400-rabbits delves into this more (in fact the second comment on the chain talks about Texcoca revisionism of Nezahualcoyotl), but it's hard to tell how much of these sources is accurately describing cultural rejection and disdain for what we'd call homosexuality, transgender or non-binary identities, etc, or if this is merely how the Spanish were viewing and filtering Mesoamerican sexuality and gender concepts which originally had validity in (at least certain) prehispanic contexts. While widespread acceptance of third gender roles which may include identities we'd view as homosexual may have been the case, that's merely one interpretation, it's possible that it still wasn't that well viewed or was only accepted in specific social or ritualistic contexts, etc.
The presence of same sex attraction and non-normative gender roles seem undeniable, determining the scope of the homosexual and transgender presence, however, remains an elusive goal. Olivier (1992) points out accusations of sodomy were used by the Spanish and other Europeans as a generalized casus belli, but Mesoamerican groups seemed to alternate between being condemned for embracing homosexuality or praised for their harsh punishments of it, depending on whichever was most politically expedient at the time. Sigal (2005) wryly notes that a Spanish author’s opinion on the prevalence of homosexuality in the Americas often tracked with how they felt about the conquest of the region. If conquest was just and valid, then it was because the natives was corrupted by endemic sodomy. If unjust or carried out too brutally, then sodomy was rare and already punished under Indigenous law.