(a) Your daughter was mopping the bathroom, hit (and broke) the water supply at the back of the toilet, there was a leak, and water leaked into the downstairs apartment. Maintenance fixed the leak, but didn't check the downstairs apartment.
(b) Maintenance thought they fixed the leak, but there was a continuing leak after they fixed it, and (as a result of that continuing leak), the apartment downstairs was flooded.
If the leak was so bad that it caused the hallway carpets to get wet then I understand it leaking to the unit below you. If your daughter damaged something that caused the leak then you or your daughter (depending on her age) would be responsible for cost to the unit below you. Here is most likely what will happen.
B. If downstairs neighbors dont have renters insurance they will most likely have to sue you in regular court (30k will be way above small claims court) this will require real lawyers and will such cost a considerable amount on the neighbors end and might not be worth their time or money if you have nothing of value yourself.
Yeah I guess you’re right, but why not first try to assess if the landlord is really ready to pursue this in court before committing to legal advice that will cost possibly thousands of dollars? Maybe a letter isn’t the right course of action, but from the details provided, it seems like the landlord is taking some very strong actions on a pretty weak case. The answers from this sun can’t always just be “call a lawyer”. Seems to me the reason people come here at all is because they don’t want to have to go to court. Or they can’t afford a lawyer, or don’t know how to find a good one.
Under no circumstances, like at all? Do you call your lawyer every time you interact with your landlord? OP clearly doesn’t keep a lawyer on retainer, otherwise they wouldn’t be on /r/legaladvice. It also sounds like their landlord is a slumlord. So they’re going to pay a retainer fee of at least a few hundred bucks. Where’s that money coming from? Then they may get 5 minutes with a lawyer, who sends a template letter to the landlord saying whatever. Oh look The landlord suddenly figured out insurance will cover it, isn’t that a twist. That’ll be $500 please. OR Oh look The landlord found a better lawyer who’s going to make you pay through the nose. Get ready for a long drawn out court battle.
This is typical Reddit though, always deferring to authority in mundane circumstances. Not that $30k is mundane, but I’m not talking about this case anymore. You guys seem to operate on the principle that everything here is moot because the only rational option is to call a lawyer. I guess we’re just discussing this stuff for the fun of it? It’s like telling someone with a nose bleed they need to see a doctor because it could be a brain tumor. Well okay, sure, but probably not. Better hope you go to the right doctor because there are plenty who will do thousands of dollars of needless imaging.