The cheeky answer is that the rest of Europe didn't have a "Feudal System" either (other equally cheeky answers that are also correct include: (1) feudalism wasn't a system, (2) the system wasn't feudalism, (3) the very notion of feudalism is a product of our imagination, and lastly, (4) why do we need to call anything feudalism in the first place?).
The political mechanisms of the Southern Monarchy emerged on the one hand through a very late appropriation of roman-style provincial governments propped up on life support (Constantinople still appointed a Catapan in Bari up to the eleventh century, while the Lombard strongmen who defied them in Salerno and Capua played at being even more Roman than the Eastern Romans) and on the other hand generous land-grant style rewards which the Lombards first, and Normans later, offered over a surprisingly rapid process of consolidation. So while it was a very much a contested territory, the South never really experienced the sort of tumultuous sequence of weak institutions the North did. This meant that while prosperous and politically autonomous cities did emerge, they never came to become the institutional building block that urban governments instead became did in the north, and such there weren't any hurdles to "subvert" by the monarchy and the aristocracy (landed, un-landed, or a combination of both) who supported them.
In addition, as you mentioned the Papal States, I did also write looking into the fact that given the origins of the Medieval Italian political system, a theocratic-style government wasn't really unaligned with the way the city-republic emerged.
So while we do see some cities in Germany with political systems very similar to those in Italy (Mainz, Trier, and Cologne) which in fact preserve post-roman political characteristics even longer than Italian cities do, other autonomous and semi autonomous cities emerged from the bottom up. These cities which had little to do with the Roman past (even if they might adopt post-Roman statutes and practices). So the growth of cities took an opposite route in Germany compared to Italy: the political system in Germany was not superimposed top-down onto an existing city-based legal and political system as occurred in Italy, but rather most cities were not of Roman background and instead emerged and asserted themselves from the bottom-up.
There were very many differences indeed between autonomous cities in Germany and Italy, at least in the role they played in the country's economic and institutional development. While autonomous cities were one of many political systems emerging in the German part of the Empire, urban governments were instead the fundamental political building-block of the Italian peninsula.
You might be interested in I wrote with some additional details as to how the Milanese state computed the final transition into a wholly despotic state (thus flouting the "all governments in Italy were city-state councils" trope).
Thus dynasties like, for example, the Visconti in Milan or the Scaligeri in Verona were able to construct large and despotic political units which exerted control over countless urban councils, stretching over an expansive territory. While the city-unit was indeed the basic building block of their political systems, urban institutions did not define the only sort of relationship that mediated between the government and the governed. Indeed, at a point in the 14th century the Scaligeri ruled Padua through a local vassal dynasty (the Carrara) who themselves leveraged their vassalitude (is that a word?) in order to legitimize their rule over the city, council or not, and it would be those same vassals (Francesco da Carrara, to be exact) who would defect to the Venetian Republic and deliver the city to Venice.
Furthermore, staying in Genoa--i did my dissertation on this city, but this sort of thing happened elsewhere--politicians in the city states often acted as feudal lords outside of the city walls while maintaining a complicated set of citizen rights within the walls of the city. For centuries, the Fieschi were the most powerful familial faction within Genoa, and they drew their wealth and authority from their estates around Lavagna. Indeed, within that city, you have a two-tiered political class of nobiles--landed nobles with estates outside of the city who also invested in trade--and mercantes--individuals who drew their wealth and power exclusively from trade. This second group was not able to overcome the former until the insanity that is 14th century Genoa when they made a more assertive compact with the lower orders of the city.