It is this official status that distinguishes the meaning of concubine from that of mistress which, still today, has the connotation of an illicit relationship, even if it may be an open secret in some cases.
The word concubine is Latin in origin and the word concubina described a cohabiting relationship without marriage. The important thing is that concubinage came to be an officially recognised practice, with notice having to be given to the authorities of the relationship. It was used for relationships where marriage was not permitted or not desirable - for example a senator in relationship with a freedwoman, or wanting to prevent the children from the relationship having a right to inherit. (I only mention Rome first because it's the source of our English word and this question is primarily about language, not because the practice in Rome is somehow most important or influenced any others.).
This is distinct from prominent examples of mistresses in the West like Henry VIII who (to put it mildly) famously had to divorce each wife in turn in order to officially marry the next one, even if they were engaging in some extracurricular activities before it was all official.
It was not unknown or unheard of for a royal marriage to be annulled after a number of years, but Henry's behavior was erratic, and Catherine's declaration that her marriage was valid was the best protection she could offer her daughter, despite his imprisoning her and worsening her treatment steadily, she maintained her status as his wife. (Eventually, after Catherine's death, Mary would agree that her mother's marriage was invalid and that she was Henry's bastard child, which was a contravention of both common sense and canon law. Canon law held that a marriage entered into in good faith meant legitimacy for the descendants of that marriage, regardless of later rulings.).
This left Anne in a tricky position, where Henry was now legally a widower in the eyes of the Church of Rome, but legally wed to her in England, but after one daughter and multiple miscarriages, he did not choose to engage in another ceremony. Instead, court intrigues with Thomas Cromwell (yes, of Wolf Hall fame) led to her being accused of treason and executed.