The north initially didnt want abolition of slavery. For the starters of that conflict, it very much so was about slavery. Not just maintaining it, but expanding it. 1857 dredd scott decision also spit in the eye of free states declaring them pretty much slave states as well in practice.
Odd that it wasn’t about slavery at first since every state in the confederacy mentions that it’s because of slavery in their declaration of secession.
that the US federal government, on its own initiative, would have raised an army of 2,672,341 men, and declared war on the southern states solely for the purpose of abolishing slavery?
The Republicans, sought to restrict the growth of slavery into new states and territories, while leaving it alone where it already existed, believing that this was the best way to move forward as an industrialized society.
Both Republicans and Democrats believed that if slavery were not allowed to expand into the new states and territories, over time, the Democrats would experience a loss in political power.
Meanwhile, the Democrats, whom the spoils of slavery had enriched, and which enrichment was subsequently used to grasp political power, sought to expand slavery into new states and territories, thereby extending their power and influence over a growing nation.
This belief, and the pushback of new states and territories against the institution of slavery, led the Democrats to instigate the Civil War, seeking to form their own country and maintaining positions of power, versus loosing political power over time by remaining in the union.
It had nothing to do with the Democrat party seeking to maintain their political power (which was based on slavery), and that had the Democrat party been willing to loose political power over time, (due to slavery not being expanded, and only maintained where it currently existed), with the result being that the Democrat politicians wouldn’t have formed the Confederacy and instigatedthe Civil War.
Only when it became apparent that slavery would not be allowed to expand, and there would be an attendent loss of political power and influence by the southern states at the national level, did the southern Democrat politicians proceed with secession.
The Democrat politicians believed that forming the Confederate States of America would allow them to maintain political power, and continue with the cotton plantation based economy.
Based on contemporary writings at the time, it is a historical fact that the cotton based plantation economy, with cotton being the largest export of the entire United States in the 1860s, was the financial base underpinning both the political power structure, and ruling class structure of the southern states. Democrat politicians in the southern states, in an effort to maintain that financial base, actively legislated for the institution of slavery, within their states, and for the expansion of slavery into new states and territories.
The true cause of the civil war, was a grasping for political power by the Democrat party, and slavery, or more rightly, the belief that there must be an expansion of slavery, was the excuse used, under the guise of states rights, to seek to maintain their political power.
So yes, just like all civil wars, throughout all of history, the root cause boils down to a group of politicians grasping at political power.