There was little need for reconciliation, as Christiany had taken root far before the fall of the western empire. Though that new faith definitely shook the Roman empire (and is considered one of many factors of it's fall, because it damaged the former belief in the divine nature of imperators), that crisis occurred well before the fall of the western empire. When Rome fell to the germanic 'barbarians', it was already a Christian city, practicing what we would see today as Orthodox Christianity (as it was pre-Schism).
In short, while there was a real conflict between Roman pagan beliefs and Christianity, that conflict long predated 476, so it did not impact faith-wise what we see in modern terms as the successor state of the Roman empire. For a thousand years afterwards, it's mainly religious conflict (based largely on what could be seen as Papal overreach and forgeries) that eroded the view that Byzantium wasn't Rome anymore in the west; it never eroded that view in the east until the fall.
So if one accepts at least these two points (cult of the emperor perhaps less important religiously, and transformation of expression of royal authority in 3rd century), it becomes hard to argue that Christianity contributed to the fall of the Roman empire by eating away at the power of the empire. On the contrary, it has been emphatised that successive emperors from Constantine onwards have cannily exploited new sources of power as derived from the Christian God, starting with Constantine's ingenious amalgamation of pagan and Christian belief and in some ways culminating in the 'holy war' waged by Heraclius on the Persian empire, embracing the iconography of the Christian empire as a second Israel with the emperor and God at its helm. Note the relationship between secular and religious authority in Byzantium is a complicated one, with the emperor often legislating on ecclesiastical matter throughout church councils in a way unparalleled in the West - it used to be described as caesaropapism, although this model has been discredited for not being extremely accurate or nuanced.
Et cetera. He does, as you say, omit the polytheist cosmology, presumably when it does not allow him to show how it reflects the Bible (just like George, he recounts a whole lot of tales about Romulus and Remus, but significantly does not mention Mars at all).
So he is also syncretising mythology with history: but while Eusebius is fairly kind to pagan traditions, suggesting they are essentially correct but mistaking the source of divinity (not Christian god, but pagan deities) and thus corrupting their histories, Synkellos is significantly less forgiving - see his judgment of the same passage of Alexander Polyhistor I cited from Eusebius (p. 41):
So, the Eusebian Model attempts to syncretise the Greco-Roman mythical events within the timeline of Christian history while omitting the polytheist cosmology, while Synkellos attempts to accept the historical events and cast outright doubt on the polytheist lineage?
Eusebius definitely syncretises Greco-Roman mythical events with the Christian timeline, but so does George Synkellos - but they do it in different ways. I'm going to generalise a bit, but what Eusebius essentially does is connect all the pagan myths into one and sets them alongside Christian history. He can afford to do that by a) arguing that the pagan accounts are a metaphor for the Biblical account, b) pointing out to inaccuracies within them to show they merely (inaccurately) reflect the Bible and are not the source. See the following passage on the history of Berosus, which he takes from Alexander Polyhistor (the Chaldean Chronicle, 4 and 5):
'...The previous passage is from Alexander Polyhistor, quoting from Berossos, the lying author of the Chaldaeka. So for those whose interest is the correct way to approach the divine book of Genesis and the previously cited Chaldaean fantasy, it is possible \[to see\] the extent to which they have disagreed with one another, and how it contradicts divinely inspired writings in most matters.' From them, this fantasy entirely derives, and by mixing in falsehood, it endeavours to slip in idolatry and some other kind of universal creative power both in time and in nature. In fact, it avoids saying that it stole the essentials of its narrative from Mosaic writings and it puts forth Oannes, the sea creature, who neither existed, nor ever appeared to anyone, nor has any reality, just as there are neither 'thingamajigs' nor 'doohickeys.