Barr is half right, but the half he gets wrong suggests a distorted understanding of the significance of he American Revolution.
Though Barr is correct in saying that the monarch’s powers were greatly reduced at the time of the American Revolution, George III was still, at least in theory, an extremely powerful figure. In his , written in the period immediately before the American Revolution, William Blackstone describes the supreme power of English government as being “divided into two branches; the one legislative, to wit, the parliament, consisting of king, lords, and commons; the other executive, consisting of the king alone.” The king was furthermore, theoretically, “not only incapable of doing wrong, but ever of thinking wrong: he can never mean to do an improper thing: in him is no folly or weakness.”.
No longer was the king an apolitical ruler manipulated by conniving ministers. Now he was a tyrant, ruling despotically through a puppet parliament. In a , Congress formally declared their opposition to the king himself, resolving that “it is necessary that the exercise of every kind of authority under the said crown should be totally suppressed, and all the powers of government exerted, under the authority of the people of the colonies.” On June 7, Richard Henry Lee proposed the , declaring “That these United Colonies are, and of right ought to be, free and independent States, that they are absolved from all allegiance to the British Crown, and that all political connection between them and the State of Great Britain is, and ought to be, totally dissolved.” The Lee Resolution was passed on July 2, and the final wording of the Declaration of Independence was approved on July 4.
In light of all this, does the fact that the Declaration of Independence specifically and repeatedly lays the blame at the feet of the king (instead of his ministers) for the abuses the colonies have suffered act as further evidence toward a rejection of monarchism in general, or only of George III specifically?