So let me see if I’m understanding this correctly. In California, if the divorce judgment states that all property include life insurance is solely rewarded to my mom, the life insurance money can still be handed over to my dad if he’s listed as a beneficiary because the policy wasn’t updated? Thanks for the help!
Edit: So if we show the life insurance company the documentation such as divorce papers and the will, would it have any affect, or is it a done case where he will have the money?
Someone else, besides sister, should look at the divorce papers to see what the actual language is about the "interest" in the life insurance policy. The QDRO (qualified domestic relations order) may have required that your father pay the premiums to keep a life insurance policy in force for the benefit of your mother. The question is did he perform this aspect properly? If your father's life was being insured, then he should have named your mother as the beneficiary. It's not clear exactly whose life was being insured--your mother's life or your father's life. It wouldn't make sense for him to be the beneficiary of a policy on his life.
Your attorney will have to try to figure out exactly what happened here. If father was not legally allowed to be the beneficiary, then the attorney for your mother's estate will need to decide if the attorney can sue your father for the return of this money. Maybe there is some type of penalty in the divorce papers that specifies what happens if the life insurance policy was not kept in force on her behalf.
excuse me if i’m describing this wrong since I have 0 background in this stuff, but I believe she had a life insurance policy and my dad was listed as a beneficiary years before their divorce. the judgment states, “Petitioner”(My mom) “is awarded the following property as her separate property and she shall hold Respondent harmless from all liability thereon: “...( bunch of stuff jewelry, house, debt...) ... h. “any and all interest in the Farmers Life Insurance policies;”. That is all that is said about the life insurance.