It is perfectly acceptable for someone to be found guilty on witness testimony alone. It happens all the time. That is not a violation of your rights.
Which of your rights do you think were violated? Testimony is evidence. Two people testifying to the same story is sometimes sufficient to convict at trial.
In this case, with the evidence against you (testimony from 2 witnesses, and the police who arrested you) your lawyer probably knew you'd be found guilty if it was taken to trial and suggested you plead guilty to get a better outcome. You declined (as was your right), you went to trial (as was your right), you were defended by a lawyer you didn't have to pay for (as was your right), and you got to confront and cross examine your accusers (as was your right).
Assaults don't always leave marks or damage. The judge knows that. Two witnesses testifying to something happening that only the defendant denies can reach the level of convincing a judge/jury of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
Okay, so there were two witnesses, and you tried casting doubt on their testimony by pointing out that they were related and had motive to make up their story against you. That doesn't sounds like your rights to face your accuser and cross-examine them were violated.
The outcome isn't why my rights were violated. My rights were violated because I wasn't found guilty beyond a shadow of a doubt. The only witness to the alleged assault was my aunt my grandfather never witnessed the assault the fact that they lied on the stand and there was no evidence of any fight no damaged property no marks nothing. That is why my rights are violated the prosecution had nothing and the defense didn't really have anything and the judge ruled guilty is a CLEAR violation of my rights and the judge is not fit to serve a judge so quick to slam the javel down without even considering that no crime took place and could be sentencing an innocent youth is not fit to serve and I want her job or money for the incompetence of this judge.
So you say that they must prove to a jury or judge beyond a reasonable doubt well as I stated they didn't because they brought nothing to the table beyond there words and as my defense broke down those words while they never broke down any of my defenses and just continued to hurl accusations proves that the judges decision wasn't reasonable.