It's only weird if you try to view it from a Western idea of what 'progressive' and 'conservative' mean. Japan (and Asia as a whole) do not fit neatly into Western boxes. Japan is socially conservative in the truest sense of the word. They don't like any change that is perceived as interfering with the social fabric of the nation, whether that's being more progressive or rolling back protections. Like most of East Asia, the cultural emphasis is on harmony and stability - and their solution to the fringe groups that don't quite fit in is to pretend they don't exist.
Taiwan is a prominent counterexample for the region, as it has a very vigorous democratic culture that seeks to achieve the same idea of harmony and stability by reforming laws and changing institutions. It is still the only country in Asia to have legalized gay marriage, and every year Taipei hosts the largest Pride parade in Asia and the turnout from people of all kinds is huge. Note that it is definitely still a conservative society - the approval percent for legalising gay marriage was like in the mid 30s, but just a couple years after legalisation that jumped up to around 70%, and outside of evangelical Christians there's absolutely zero political pushback or desire to rollback gay rights laws.
It was more poking a joke at the recent bill that received pushback from a handful of republican congressmen to legally protect gay and interracial marriage, but go ahead and tell me all about myself after a 3 word comment on Reddit. Triggered much?
Yep that very same bill. It's still a hot issue with multiple well-seated powerful entities working against LGBT interests.
I mean, if you want to have your tirade, that's your personal decision. Just know that nothing you said makes me enjoy my joke any less and that neither of us has gained anything from this exchange. Now I'm going to block you and move on with my life. Don't marinate in the salt too long.
Edit: Just like abortion was legalized through constitutional review? The court giveth, and the court taketh away.