This is it exactly. There are probably approved vendors they are forced to purchase from and probably minimum and maximum quantities they have to work between.
Also the reason why it isn’t worth pursuing is that $45,000 is actually a very reasonable amount for any business, school, or nonprofit entity to spend on miscellaneous supplies.
As other commenters mentioned, $45,000 is not an unreasonable amount of money for a public school to spend on suppliers, depending on the size of the school and what supplies were bought.
You realize that $45k in supplies could very well be reasonable depending on the size of the district and the programs they are running? Art supplies are cheap from your perspective, but you aren't buying them for 10 art classes with 30 kids, 8 times a day. Suddenly giving a group of kids $0.10 worth of cotton balls for a single project is a $250 problem.
Schools can't shop for the best price. I work in NJ, but I imagine NC has very similar rules. They have to bid out those supplies and select from the bid replies. Or work with a vendor that has been pre-approved by the state. By law... the leadership could go to jail if they don't comply. So while you may be able to find individual items cheaper, they may not have the same subset of purchasing options that you do. Or, there might be other reasons. Many of the more expensive vendors will do things that would immediately exclude them from typical consumer use. For example, net 30/60/90 payment terms, flexible freight delivery, accepting purchase orders, dealing with the government bureaucracy to become an approved vendor (because people got annoyed with the gov spending lots of money and wanted answers, and the resulting restrictions and reporting requirements raised the net cost significantly...).
I mean ffs I work with small school districts that spend close to six figures on printing... they cart in rooms full of palettes of paper at the beginning of the year. What is the net revenue of the school district? If it's a $1mm org, you might have an argument. If it's a $20mm org, $45k is basically nothing. That would barely buy a decent laptop for a few dozen teachers.