What are these assholes planning now? I wish that they would go away, but I am not dumb enough to believe that. I hope all my Jewish brethren can stay safe.
I hope Jews are getting armed for self defense. The cops can't be everywhere all the time, and they often take a while to get to your location if you call them, so it's better to be prepared in case you get attacked.
These nazis need to be found and held accountable. I'm so fucking sick of those fucking assholes terrorizing innocent people.
White supremacists have a lot in common with Islamic fundamentalists. In the Middle East they call it "day of rage" but it's the same principle, and Jews are usually the targets of their hate.
Modern far right extremism’s main objective is hate, fear, and persecution at the forefront. It’s much more shocking and violent at its core as they know they’ll never win a political majority with their rhetoric. Consider what would happen if a modern neo-Nazi leader was given the same powers as Hitler when he rose to chancellory. If they’re able to maintain their violent rhetoric and gain a majority, it’d be a huge surprise and is very unlikely. What lenhs would they go to? To be honest, they probably wouldn’t have the logic capacity to keep a government, and they probably wouldn’t even be able to agree on their versions of the final solution.
A major difference was that the NSDAP wasn’t so outright in their hate and persecution as their main goal (at least not at the start) to win over the people. While they stressed the superiority of the prototypical German and were strongly antisemitic and racist, they were very nuanced when they had to be to spin up nationalist fervour; the average German probably didn’t make the jump to agreeing with the final solution at the start, but they were definitely being brainwashed to hate through national socialism. They didn’t call it hate and bigotry, they called it the “people’s community”, and while this was a big part of WWI Germany, Hitler added that only members of the Aryan race could be members of that community. Hence why the final solution and the camps were kept “secret” to some extent. The average German didn’t want to believe it was happening. Obviously this is a generalization and I’m sure there are many examples of the opposite of what I said. They were a political party looking to gain majority power.
However, they can use propaganda (GOP) to convince enough people, then shift to what their real intent is, much like Hitler and the NSDAP did. Except I don’t believe they’d go for outright murder (they can use the police and radicalized domestic terrorists for that to a certain extent). Moreso policies that discriminate and disenfranchise the people they believe are the problem, which could lead to the injury or early deaths of those problem people. It’s pretty obvious that they’ve already started this shift. It’s a response to their base. They want to keep power, and they have to be hateful to do so; it’s a feedback loop. More of a longer drawn out systemic change “solution”, aka turning back time while discriminating against more than just black people (Jews, women, Native Americans, and any and all immigrants). An American version of Germany’s “people’s community” where membership relies on being white and subservient.