The Geneva Conventions are a series of treaties and protocols that establish the standards for international law by which soldiers and militaries are to abide concerning humanitarian treatment during war. It does not address the use of weapons and their legality, which are covered by the Hague Conventions.
The Conventions were created in 1929 in the aftermath of WWI, and updated in 1949 after WWII. Under the updated protocols, conducting a nuclear attack falls under the premise of a war crime due to "willfully causing great suffering or serious injury to body or health" and extensive destruction and appropriation of property not justified by military necessity" which nuclear weapons obviously do.
(4) International law prohibits the use of weapons and belligerent means that produce unnecessary and cruel forms of suffering as illustrated by the prohibition of lethal poisons and bacteria; the atomic bomb causes suffering far more severe and extensive than the prohibited weapon.
A nuclear weapon of comparable power to Nagasaki or Hiroshima, used against a city, will in almost all thinkable scenarios be illegal because it per definition is indiscriminate. There are probably options for using strategic or tactical nuclear weapons against more isolated military targets, but there is just no argument to be made in favour of the legality of nuking a city with ordinary nuclear weapons, and even less so for the use of thermonuclear weapons at all, as using them without undue damage to civilians or the environment would difficult and even more so using them with any precision that could be termed "discriminatory", almost no matter where on the planet they are used.
(3) there was no concentration of military objectives in either Hiroshima or Nagasaki; therefore, no legal basis exists for contending that the atomic attacks might be allowable by analogy to zone bombing.
You might be interested in which discusses the question of whether Hiroshima and Nagasaki could have been plausibly considered war crimes at the time (unlikely, given the way the laws of war was understood and practiced during World War II) and later (much more easily). The question of whether they did constitute violations of international norms was engaged with in their day, but as the Allies were in charge of any prosecutions of war crimes, there was obviously no sanction made.
The Geneva Conventions are not a govermental body which can levy sanctions or impose will upon another nation, they are more of a set of guidelines or rules as to how Protecting Power states prosecute war crimes committed by ground troops against other soldiers or non combatants.
I don't see a scenario where Truman would punish himself or his own country for what they viewed as necessary to end a war against a genocidal nation, which had no qualms whatsoever about disregarding the laws of the Geneva and Hague Conventions in the first place.
To put it shortly: The allies - for the most part - didn't just invent war crimes after the war as a means to condemn otherwise and previously legally accepted behaviour. I'll go more into the existence of war crimes before ww2 and their applicability to nuclear weapons below.
So, the atomic bombings was, in my opinion quite clearly (but, there are jurists who dispute this), a war crime also at the time and for the US, as were probably many of the mass bombings and killings of civilians. The fact that none were prosecuted for them does not, and should not, change the condemnation of them as war crimes.