The owner/friend does not but there's a bedroom available. Our friends who are staying there are a couple and only occupy one room. If they have a lamp and rug in the room does that count as occupancy?
they should have talked about it more. But actually I stayed in that room in the house with them, October and November at my friend/owners insistence, because it's his house, so that was the agreement then and I still have my things stored there. now they're saying they're want the house to themselves. Everything should be fine then right?
Actually I've already stayed in that room for October and November and the agreement then was that the owner can let me stay there as he wishes or live there himself, I didn't pay rent then, but i think that's agreement and I have texts from the roommates saying as much.
His agreement to let a couple "stay in the house" as its only occupants that does not specifically describe which parts of the house they have possession of will probably be considered to give them possession of the whole house.
Note that paying rent is largely irrelevant -- was the agreement that they could stay there and occupy the entire property, or just the one room (and maybe other common areas or whatever)?
It sounds to me like the landlord should take this opportunity to get everyone on a written lease agreement so that there are no misunderstandings.
It sounds like your friend has been somewhat loose and disorganized with their handling of being a landlord and taking on tenants, and is now in a pickle as to which tenants have access to what portions of the house, etc.
An alternative view: when a landlord breaches the "implied covenant of quiet enjoyment" by taking away a tenant's access to part of a house, their recourse is generally to break the lease without penalty, or even to recover damages up to the value of their rent. And of course, they don't have a fixed term lease or pay rent.
I don't think a court would consider ordering the landlord to provide his tenants with another house free of roommates for free.