Part of that was linguistic hegemony: the Deitsch language is not English. It's a variant of German. The Deitsch language is still spoken today, though mostly among plain sects like the Amish.
Coming in to add that the Deitsch (Pennsylvania German & their diaspora) may have been mostly-Palatinate / "German," they were not considered Anglo-Saxon.
I will add,, there is a current movement among Medievalists to switch from the term "Anglo-Saxon" to "Old English, because "Anglo-Saxon" has been co-opted by white supremacy.
First, the term WASP (White Anglo-Saxon Protestant) or The Establishment wasn't used until the mid-20th century. It was used as a criticism that a small group of white men had too much control of large institutions and the levers of government. Although the term was created in the 1950 and 60s, it was used to describe something that had been going on for centuries in America. The WASPs were the portion of the American establishment (white male patriarchy) which emanated from the elites of Boston (or New England, more broadly). Before being called, WASPs, specifically they were known as Boston Brahmins. Peak-WASP power was probably in the mid-20th century; but this was also the precipice of when they began their slide out of power.
Other waves of migration came from the southern England and landed in Virginia (bringing the cavalier tradition, aristocratic culture, plantation culture, a sociology that was tolerant and then dependent on indentured servants and slaves, etc.), from the Midlands (Yorkshire area) into the Delaware/Philadelphia/Susquehanna River area), and then the Scots-Irish who settled the backcountry and into Appalachia. Eventually there would be cultural elites from all of these groups, but the WASPs were centered around New England, and were mostly Episcopalians, Unitarians, and Congregationalists.
Similarly, a group of boarding schools emerged, all with religious connection and mostly in New England. These boarding schools were feeder schools for those colleges. But most Americans were illiterate at that time.