(2) Upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade where such vehicle cannot be seen by the driver of another vehicle approaching from either direction;.
Is it legal? Mostly. If you have an accident, expect to be found at fault. Reasoning: If you are making a u-turn and have a collision, you are 'not being safe' and 'interfering with other traffic'.
What's your legal basis on u-turn "not being safe" and that it is "interfering with other traffic" if I have a green light, or it's my turn at 4-way stop intersection?
It's about making a u-turn on a green light, but I don't see reason why 4-way stop intersection would be different.
It's about making a u-turn on a green light, but I don't see reason why 4-way stop intersection would be different where it was my turn.
As someone posted, Georgia law has only allows U-turns when they can be performed safely and without obstructing other traffic. A four way stop does NOT give enough space for a U-turn to be performed safely, and you clearly obstructed other traffic. What you should have done is make a left turn then find a parking lot to turn around safely in.
You had the right of way to make a left turn like you were signalling for. You did not have the right of way to make a U-turn. You apparently are arrogant enough to think that you have sole possession of the intersection. Other people are not aware of you wanting to perform a U-turn there because it's not a safe place to do it even if your car is small enough to perform it there. The turn signal is a left turn, not a U-turn. The reason why is generally, a U-turn is not considered a safe maneuver which is why in most states and localities it is illegal to even do it. You happen to live in a place where it's legal in certain circumstances. If that intersection had no one else at it, you could do it there. Since there was other traffic, it became illegal as it would obstruct other drivers being able to enter the intersection in a timely fashion.
My car was small enough and that intersection was big enough for me to smoothly and quickly make a u-turn without reversing at all, so I don't know how did I obstruct other traffic especially if I did had the right of way and the other driver did not.
a driver attempting execute a right turn on red must yield to everyone else lawfully within in the intersection. Therefore, screaming, honking and obscene gestures aside, the driver executing a lawful u-turn has the right of way. (.