There isn’t really any truth to the claims at all. The only Europeans that traveled somewhat into West Africa prior to the Portuguese were the Romans, as evidenced by Roman coins in Mauritania (Mokhtar 515), although the purpose of these expeditions were specifically for commerce. I want to emphasize that these were now huge expeditions and were very sparse, with there being only four verifiable ones. There’s no evidence to suggest any Roman influence on the art, government, and other historical achievements of the powers within the region. It was only done by European colonizers to, like you said, downplay these African civilizations. It’s been done multiple times, such as with Great Zimbabwe.
Asomani-Boateng, Raymond. “Borrowing from the Past to Sustain the Present and the Future: Indigenous African Urban Forms, Architecture, and Sustainable Urban Development in Contemporary Africa.” Journal of Urbanism: International Research on Placemaking and Urban Sustainability, vol. 4, no. 3, 2011, pp. 239–62. Taylor & Francis Online, doi:10.1080/17549175.2011.634573.
As for the first quote describing the lack of doors, it refers to a general overview of the housing in the city, the second refers specifically to the palace grounds. Architecture could very well play a large role in it, as if you were to look up photographs and artistic imagery of pre colonial Benin there is a lack of doors throughout what we can see. The impluvium-courtyard is very prominent in Benin architecture and they were essentially courtyards in the middle of mudhouse compounds (Agbontaen, et al.) “Family units built houses enclosing a central court. As the family grew, men and their wives and children moved out and built similar structures”. This is one possible explanation for the amount of open spaces seen by the Europeans, and perhaps the lack of doors as well. There is also the fact that houses essentially owned the road immediately in front of their house. These roads would be “...fenced with tall [water cane] neatly set very close together in uniform rows…” (Asomani-Boateng) which were likely added for a sense of privacy. There’s a book titled Ancient African Town by Fiona Macdonald that explores Benin City as well, although they are artistic interpretations they still provide a good idea on the layout of the city and just how open everything is. I do still want to emphasize that detailed information on this is rather sparse, or at the very least, extremely difficult for me to find. This is just what I have managed to gather and piece together in this amount of time. Yoruba architecture is very similar to that of the Edo of Benin, so some architectural inferences could be gained from that. Both had emphasized familial courtyards, great earthen walls around their cities (Vlach), and more although there will obviously still be some differences. Hopefully this provided at least a bit more insight.
Thanks for such an interesting answer. I have a follow-up question: Do we know what ambassador Ohen-Okun thought about Portugal and by extension Europe?