>The United States, which is selective about which countries it sells the F-35 to, has not made it clear whether they have offered the jet to India — nor has the Indian Air Force said anything official about it.
The US might help in developing engines and other stealth tech for India but there is no way they give the f35 etc for export.
As an indian, this article feels a bit clickbait. The demonstration was an indication of growing relations between the US and India however i doubt that the US would be willing to give their stealth stuff to India when they refused their NATO partner for buying the s400.
Although India became a member of the QUAD, America can't get a supportive attitude from India unless the US can give valuable weapon development skills. If the US wishes to change India's heart, should give the nation precious weapon technologies to satisfy India's slogan such as "Make in India" But that's impossible in the position of the US. However, Putin's Russia can do that enough. Let's will see America's diplomatic steps.
The current US administration & American weapon builders don't know India's central government & its citizens' hearts on the national defense of India. Why did those Indians support Putin's regime during the war in Ukraine? The nation has purchased a large number of tanks & jet fighters from Russia, so the PM of India, Narendra Modi used to announce "Putin is a real brother to Indians".
So far India has been maintaining a very dangerous situation with other nearing countries like China and Pakistan at the border of India. Therefore, India needs more powerful military organizations. A.K.A India bought huge amounts of petroleum & natural gas, at very cheaper costs many times from Russia regardless of the US & EU's negative responses. India does not have any interest in the Ukrainian war, at the same time, the nation would like to obtain an awesome weapon-building technology to punish China at the border of India.
India could have ten times as much military forces at present and it's still not really a -threat- to China, even if on paper they could win a conventional conflict. Likewise, China with ten times their present forces isn't really a threat to India simply because they've got other fish to fry, so to speak.
That doesn't mean that they'll have no conflict, but the small-scale border stuff that they get up to is more useful as a drum to bang on for domestic politics than it is likely to actually result in anything significant.
That doesn't mean they'll always get along, that doesn't mean they have common interests, but they're not the kind of opposing forces where Indian troops tie down Chinese resources that are then unavailable for other conflicts.