So see , which goes into the "timeline" issue. They essentially _did_ surrender after the bombing of Hiroshima, but by "after the bombing of Hiroshima" one should change it to "after they investigated the bombing and made sure it was legitimately what Truman said it was — which took a few days — and also during that time the Soviets invaded Manchuria." Even then they didn't _unconditionally_ surrender until their first conditional surrender was rejected by the US and there was an attempted coup.
Anyway, nobody serious says that the Japanese were "about to surrender" prior to Hiroshima. What they say is: Japan was on the brink of _defeat_ (which is not the same thing as surrender), had people in the high command who knew this fact, and some of those people were seeking ways to end the war diplomatically (e.g. through a negotiation), but were not clear how exactly to do this, and were stymied by the US insistence on "unconditional surrender" which they interpreted as possibly meaning the end of their Emperor system, which they saw as unacceptable. So that's a more complex situation. And indeed, even after the atomic bombs and invasion by the USSR, they were still hung up on that "condition" for several days.
Sure, plenty seriously. There is a lot of evidence to support the idea that the Soviet invasion played a bigger role in the surrender decision than the atomic bombs, or at least as big a role. And certainly the Japanese were trying to court the Soviets as a neutral mediator; the US was well aware of this because it had cracked their diplomatic codes.
There’s an alternative theory that Japan expected that the Soviets would fear being surrounded by Western-allied states both east and west, and Japan expected the USSR to diplomatically force the US to agree to terms with Japan. Then, it wasn’t so much the second nuclear bomb but the Soviet invasion of Manchuria that broke this last hope for Japan.
Was there not also a big difference between the surrender terms Japan offered and the what eventually happened? Specifically, I thought Japan offered to surrender on condition of no change in the Emperor's status--no conditions that would "prejudice the prerogatives" of the Emperor. I would think that the Emperor as a figurehead, what eventually happened, is a real and significant difference from the terms on which Imperial Japan proposed to surrender.
So if Japan offered to surrender as long as the emperor was kept in place and the US rejected that offer, why did the US allow Japan to keep the emperor in place? Had the US always intended to? Was guaranteeing that Japan's surrender be unconditional the US' top priority?
Truman repeatedly brought up Pearl Harbor with anyone who suggested that they modify the unconditional surrender requirement. In his mind, as he put it, anyone who was trying to let them save any military honor was wasting their time, as they had no military honor left to spend.