It seems that there are multiple ways to fall into slavery. How about the different way out of slavery?
In a word,busy owning slaves. The primary reason why this system could continue was because the state was the foremost consumer of slave labor and thoroughly reaped its benefits. The enslaved-kin of criminals and all generations that succeeded them were considered state property and while allocation of state-owned slaves to the aristocracy was common,the Imperial government undoubtedly bore the lion's share. Moreover, the idea of a slave as being 'base' was thoroughly ingrained into society. The slave class was the lowest class,unworthy of thought or consideration for they must've had performed some form of crime to deserve this sort of punishment. This idea then evolved from base (卑) into foreign. Slaves from lands outside China were acceptable because they were already 'low' in the eyes of the Chinese. If the lowest of the low Chinese could become slaves,foreigners definitely could! There're however no recorded instances of a foreign slave in the Han period with the first references to the foreign slave trade being in the Tang Dynasty,with poets such as Yuan Zhen (779 – 831) referencing the fine quality of 'Vietnamese female slaves' and their beauty in his poem Gu Ke Le ( 估客乐 ).
INITIAL DISCLAIMER: This will not be a discussion of slavery in China in general, but rather practices of slavery and bonded servitude among one particular group specifically during the time of the Qing empire (1636-1912).
This is something exciting I'll admit As u/Xuande88 has taken a brief foray into variants of slavery in China and u/EnclavedMicrostate has gone into the idea of Manchu slave societies (Something I never knew by the way,super exciting stuff) , I'll do something they didn't talk about! Let's talk about its roots and how the earliest forms of slavery were codified in Han China,how it became the 'norm',what it was like,who could become slaves,how they were treated, what were the numbers etc etc and how much we really know about this. (Spoilers: not a lot).