The landlord doesn't have the option to evict just certain persons from the lease. Either the landlord will choose to overlook the violations, or he'll choose to seek eviction (which targets everybody on the lease).
Contact the leasing office: If you let your landlord or the property manager know about the lease violations, they can move to evict this guy. However, in order to do that, they're going to have to evict you and your girlfriend too because you're all on the same lease. They could agree to re-rent you the apartment afterward, but you'd still have evictions on your records, which is going to make moving in the future very difficult.
My advice would be, talk to the military guy (especially if you're still on kind of good terms with him, haven't burned that bridge openly yet). Maybe you can say, "Look, you clearly want to have a place to come back to when you're home. You want your friends to have a place. We don't really like your friends, and they probably won't like us either. Why don't we all agree that we get off the lease, and they (or other friends) take our place?" Of course, this will also depend on your landlord agreeing to a lease break / transfer. To get you off the lease, you need the agreement of all parties, you, the roommate, and the landlord.
You have a tenant issue. I see no viable alternative for you because if you contact your landlords, your landlord can claim breach of contract. Though, maybe you’re landlord is friendly and willing to amend your current lease in listing you and your GF as the only lease holders. If your landlord is friendly and amends your leasing agreement, then you still have a tenant issue.
So question since the new ppl living would be subleasing and it’s against the lease agreement would that not be something to get him removed since it breaks the contract he signed?
Hey question. So he’s the primary person on the lease. He wants to be removed. But per the landlord we all have to sign off. We don’t want to because we can’t remain on the lease afterwards we all get removed. If he does what you have stated where they are protected and removed off. Are we screwed as well not being military or do we get some type of protection where it doesn’t mess up or records with cutting lease, etc?