Your friend's expectations were also fairly unreasonable, and she should be prepared to manage them. In most cases, whatever country has jurisdiction will favor the child residing primarily in that country. In this case, it's hard to argue at all that the child's best interest would be served by removing them from one parent and the only country they have every known and forcing them to relocate to a completely different country and culture. On the other hand, it's very easy to argue that remaining primarily in Japan would be in the child's best interest.
Mom should be prepared for a very expensive custody battle that ultimately is unlikely to go in her favor. She may instead want to try and work out a visitation schedule with the father.
I'm not a mental health professional, but it really sounds to me like your friend's mental health may be getting in the way here. Rejecting an incredibly reasonable offer for an expensive battle she cannot afford to fight with an effectively non-existent chance of success (the chance that a Japanese court removes a Japanese child entirely from their clearly fit Japanese parent and forces them to relocate to the US is, while not technically 0, effectively 0) sounds a lot like she's not fully connecting with the reality of the situation. He's offering her close to the best case of what a court is likely to order, and he's offering it to her without the stress or cost of an international custody battle.
Your friend should speak to an attorney in Japan who specializes in international custody matters, preferably ones with the US. As the child was born to a Japanese parent in Japan, resided for their entire life in Japan, and is currently in Japan; Japan unquestionably has jurisdiction over this custodial matter.
Your friend absolutely and unquestionably needs an attorney in Japan, and to consider other probable outcomes other than she will be granted full custody of the child if the father contests it.
If the child is already in the US, and your friend and/or the child does not ever return to Japan, it is probably an uphill battle for the father however, unless the father has US citizenship or residency and wants to pursue custody in the US.
Japanese family courts are notoriously loathe to allow children to be placed with a parent moving internationally if the Japanese citizen/resident parent wishes the child to remain.