The urgency was due to the international situation at the time. Essentially, the answer to your question.
Negotiations were ongoing with the Baltic states, leading to agreements of "military cooperation", allowing Soviet baees and troops, with Estonia (28th September), Latvia (5th October), and Lithuania (10th October). The Soviet Union then waited until mid-1940 before using its military presence to take over the Baltic states.
is a big YES. The Soviet Union was cautious in its expansionism. The Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, which placed Finland, Estonia and Latvia in the Soviet sphere of influence (which the Soviets interpreted as German permission for conquest) had only been signed on 23rd August, 1939. Before this, nothing could be done safely enough. At that time, the Soviet Union was fighting Japan at Khalkhin Gol/Nomonhan, with the heaviest fighting in July and August. A ceasefire with Japan was agreed on 15th September, to come into effect on the 16th. On 17th September, the Soviet Union launched their invasion of Poland, to pick up their share of the spoils as agreed in the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. This was followed by further talks with Germany, leading to the German-Soviet Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Demarcation of 28th September 1939, which adjusted the German-Soviet border in Poland, and assigned Lithuania to the Soviet sphere of influence. There was no peace treaty ending the Soviet invasion of Poland, since the Soviet Union treated the Polish government as no longer existing and the Polish government did not declare war on the Soviet Union (and neither did Britain and France, who didn't want to add more enemies while fighting Germany). The Soviet invasion operations ended 6th October, when the last organised Polish unit still fighting surrendered.
Whatever the Soviet intentions, they preferred to gain their demands by negotiation, which didn't risk war with France and Britain. The troops that would be required for the invasion (if it turned out that an invasion was required) started to move into place in October - an invasion was not possible until November. if there was war, it would be a winter war unless the Soviet Union was willing to wait until spring. Could they wait? The key question was how long France, Britain, and Germany would be at war. If there was a quick peace agreement, Germany's greed might turn to the east, with the Soviet Union as their next target - it would not be a safe time to invade Finland. If Scandinavia responded to the war with mutual defence treaties, relations between the Soviet Union and Finland would become more complicated, even if Finland didn't join such a treaty. If Scandinavia joined the war, things would become even more complicated (regardless of which side they joined on). The risks with waiting until spring were that (a) WW2 might not last that long, and (b) WW2 might grow to big for Finland to be safely invaded. Since the Soviet Union though that invasion would lead to quick victory, once it was clear that negotiations weren't going anywhere (at least quickly enough for the Soviets), and the invasion forces were ready, they invaded Finland on 30th November.
So,f or the original Soviet plan, the weather cooperated quite well with little snow and mild temperatures - it was just that Finnish resolve and military competence combined with the lack of the same in the Red Army threw a gigantic wrench into the machinery of the plan the Soviet leadership had come up with.
The Soviets seem to have over-estimated the abilities of the Red Army and seriously underestimated the Finnish army - this was the case even in 1941, when the Soviets seemed to have assumed that one of their divisions would be superior to a German one due to its larger and heavier artillery component (this was not the case, to say the least).
The Soviet plan was for their heavy divisions to punch through any resistance the Finns could put up and by a kind of "shock and awe" demoralise the Finnish army and over-run them with tanks supported by massive amounts of artillery, both light and heavy.
The Soviet infantry division was at the time a heavy formation with two artillery regiments, often (and always in Finland) a tank battalion attached with a large degree of motorisation.