I mean it's a matter of political expedience. Gun control is always going to be secondary to societal reform, because fixing inequity within society drastically cuts down on gun violence anyway. Countries like Switzerland, Sweden, and Finland all succeed in having high gun ownership rates and baseline gun violence rates, mostly because they have functioning social systems. Their common sense approach to gun control and universal or near universal conscription helps-their citizens are highly likely to know basic gun safety.
The only problem is that this is impossible. There were only about 6 million burglaries the year Kleck did his study. In only \22% was someone home. That leads to around 1.3 million cases...And only 42% of homes owned gun at the time.
C. The number of people who carry guns daily given the number of crimes that occur outside of the home.
For even more reason to be skeptical, only about 5% of people carry their guns every day. Unless those 8 million crimes are all occurring while the victim is home, the chances of having the gun are even less likely.
Hence gun owners are even less likely to be involved with crimes, because most crimes are simply not occurring where they are to begin with, and they aren't likely to have their guns when the crimes do occur.
This is a pretty biased take, it seems highly plausible that those people living in areas of higher crime might be more inclined to get a gun for defensive purposes in the first place.
I would have thought defensive use would be something they could spin like "look there's so much crime that instances of people having to defend themselves with a firearm have gone up and it's great that people are defending themselves." But I guess anything that shows gun violence is bad in their minds, even if was defense.
This was made righter after 2013 after Obama's executive action to look into gun violence. Note that the CDC never really did anything with this because they didn't get any funding to actually do anything.