I have a little quibble with this - there wasn't a sudden gendered division of labor. Middle-class women hadn't been doing work outside the home in the sixteenth or seventeenth centuries. They were typically either concentrating solely on domestic labor due to their husband being a white-collar worker (like, for instance, Elizabeth Pepys), or they were participating in the family's artisanal workshop along with the children and apprentices as well as handling/managing those domestic tasks. There was a change in the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, as you described, in the increasing rigidity of the way gender related to the concepts of public vs. private, and an increasing belief that women weren't suited to do "skilled work", but there is a very strong throughline of the idea that women were adjuncts to their husbands and should serve to assist them rather than going out and doing work in another field.
So scholars are split on how much the entry of women into the workplace in the 1980's-today was based on feminism and women's desires for freedom, and how much is an outcome of the economy pushing women to work. Like most of these debates, it probably comes down to both things. Turns out women do like independence and being able to be free from domination by men, but they don't love being exploited in the capitalism workplace. So yea, some women hate having to work for wages. And of course motherhood and whether or not we have family leave policies is going to impact whether or not women work, so I am not sure what that Washinon Times article is trying to say except that they don't like feminism.
But the point is that many first wave feminists did critique the gendered division of wage labor and domestic labor. Charlotte Perkins Gilman is perhaps the best known of these writers and she argues that capitalism is built on the unpaid labor of women. More frequently than demanding entry to the wage labor market, the first wave feminists focused on entry into the political sphere. Jane Addams (an early sociologist, social worker, and Nobel Peace Prize winner) argued for what she called "social housekeeping." That women needed a voice in social and government policy because they knew best how to care for members of the family and by extension, the members of the nation.