well, lukashenko doesn’t want to invade. he knows putin is losing, and knows what happens to leaders in corrupt countries when they lose a war. being a leader in a corrupt country, he’s done a very good job not actually joining the fight.
I agree, so far he’s done a great job but eventually he’s gonna get pushed either into the war or out a window. Eventually Putin will bully him into it I imagine. He doesn’t care about Lukashenko.
That’s the thing, I imagine their next mobilisation will be amassed and then a lot will be based in Belarus (not entirely, they still need meat for the grinder elsewhere) with a mostly Russian assault from Belarus again, possibly with elements of Belarusians.
Another wave from Belarus territory is possible if not likely, but still will not involve Belarusian forces to great extent - they are not embedded into Russian structure, so Putin would probably try to do the same they do elsewhere use Belarusian troops as cannon fodder, throw them into meatgrinder just to exhaust Ukrainian defence, everyone is aware of that - Lukashenko too and he will resist on the basis this bringing risk of an open revolution in Belarus (Russia does not want that).
If Russia does attack from Belarus I don’t think there any way Belarus itself doesn’t get somewhat involved, because Ukraine will absolutely be hitting them over the border while it’s difficult to cross in, so either Belarus gets involved while attacks are happening on their territory or they’re seen as one of if not the weakest cowardly countries in the world.
I read some interesting analysis last month that Lukashenko was raising the specter of a NATO invasion of Belarus to justify not committing troops to fight along with Russia in Ukraine.
Belarus has limited military capability and very real risk of forces defying attack orders - this would be a disaster scenario for Lukashenko. Both himself and Putin are aware of that. He will also not be killed by Putin, who obviously does not care about literally anyone, problem is Lukashenko being killed will open void for pro European movement in Belarus, Putin will struggle with managing this in a peaceful manner and may struggle with using force too.