Your goal of owning the entire pond is best accomplished by a "boundary line adjustment". This is typically accomplished by hiring a Surveyor to perform a boundary survey of both of your lots (and depending on the lots / local regulations can sometimes be just a partial boundary survey of just the area in question, rather than the entirety of the both lots). The Surveyor will create a survey plan that shows both the existing property boundaries and the proposed adjusted boundary, along with lot sizes & any zoning setbacks for both the existing and proposed boundaries. You will need to consult with the town to understand your local requirements for getting boundary line adjustments approved as well as what the zoning requirements are that need to be met. A surveyor will be able to guide you through this process. Once the boundary line adjustment is approved by the town you will need to have the surveyor create a legal description of the portion of land that is being transferred and an attorney will use the description to compile a deed to be recorded; again, a licensed surveyor can walk you through this process.
Edit: if local zoning had a 1.5 acre minimum lot size, the boundary line adjustment could include both you receiving their portion of the pond area, and them receiving in another area an equal sized portion of your land for zero net change of both lots. Again, consult a local surveyor and this really is a straightforward process.
My advice is general in nature, and procedures vary from town to town and state to state. A local licensed land surveyor should be able to correctly guide you through this process, it is something they do frequently. There is no need for you to own both lots to move the common boundary line, as long as both owners are agreeable to the adjustment (though they will likely want some sort of payment for the portion of their land you are receiving).
Subdividing plats is certainly a thing; although it has to still conform to setback requirements, minimum lot size, and other restrictions. It’s also one of the ways easements by necessity tend to arise. So you’ll certainly want a local real estate attorney to go over the transaction.