2) In regards to the point above roughly 80% of the population of Russia and Ukraine do not want to negotiate. Politicians have very little incentive to negotiate in good faith when they know their wider population does not want them to and may react harshly if a “bad” deal is signed.
1) Negotiations for large scale conflicts like this where there is no clear winner (Russia still controls significant territory) can often take many months or even years to resolve.
5) The United States will have significant influence over Ukraine but ultimately they cannot force Ukraine to adopt an agreement. They do not have as much influence as social media “influencers” think they do.
4) Any ceasefire that allows Russia to keep the territory it has in Zaporizhia will make the above scenario much more appealing for Russia.
In this scenario, this is a conflict between Russia and Ukraine… the fact that Russia is the aggressor is irrelevant. The question becomes is the United States willing to go to Nuclear War with Russia on behalf of Ukraine?
I agree, but you are missing the Russian demand that Ukraine remain militarily neutral (i.e., outside of NATO).
I'm sure Ukraine would love to end the war too, but negotiating with Russia usually comes back to bite them. I'm of course refering to the Budapest Memorandum and the Minsk Agreement.
The Budapest Memorandum had security guarantees from U.S, U.k and Russia in exchange for dismantling their nukes. I'm not sure anything outside of joining NATO will deter Russia from future attacks?
As for what Ukraine will accept, well, Ukraine is dependent on NATO aid and intelligence. Also, the people of western nations are pretty supportive of Ukraine. So, I think Ukraine will accept whatever western politicians can sell to their own citizens, since it means retaining Western support. Once the looming recession in the West takes hold, I give us perhaps one more year of significant economic support for the war before the public starts calling for a deal, even if it means some concessions to Russia.