There could absolutely be a world in which the billionaires are still rich while everyone else still has a decent life, but the problem right now is that the wealthy are still lobbying for tax cuts for themselves.
In a sense, you are correct, except what these people are doing is to go above and beyond to keep you poor by passing corporate friendly laws and legislation, which frequently leads to lower wages with right to work laws, and leads to lower government revenues with lower corporate taxes thus cutting the ability of the government to fund education or healthcare.
They keep you and me both poor by buying government - they have gotten laws passed that make it next to impossible for you to get off the floor - they have been chopping away at public education so you can only get better if you can afford to pay for private school (no, oh here won’t help that one bit, the good private schools will still be too expensive, the ones vouchers would pay for will be barely regulated and worse), they have been chopping away at labor laws to give the companies more and more control over you, they’ve been changing tax codes so that the middle class’ effective tax rate is many times higher than their own so that if you start climbing the ladder you get pulled down (I make good money, my effective tax rate was at least five times what Mitt Romney’s was on his “income,” but the really rich have lots of ways of hiding income or getting money in other ways like insanely low interest loans from their own companies that get paid off with new loans from their own companies) . . .
I say this all the time. Democrats aren't amazing, but Republicans are fucking horrible monsters -- not evil, but they could not care less who gets hurt by their policies to help the rich.
What a surprise, the GOP protecting the capital interests instead of the average people… I hate them.
Is there a pro-forgiveness movement? I’ve noticed the current administration nor the media is being vocal about the need for the forgiveness, maybe they want to use the block as political leverage?