Menus and recipes from Delmonico still exist, and recipes from around that time and before are also pretty readily-available, because Delmonico's most famous chef published a cookbook. This is a reasonably easy question to answer: you would definitely enjoy the food, but yeah, it'd be pretty heavy, and look a little different.
Right, both because you like meat and because it's relatively much easier to get a hold of than, say, the vegetables you're used to. Makes sense, thanks.
It's probably worth being a little bit clear here. Delmonico was around for a long time, and its menus were not carved in stone. What's popularly bandied about as its first menu is not actually from Delmonico; it's from another restaurant also named Delmonico's, so when you see, say, pork chops, pork and beans, or sausages and think "this is not fancy French food," that's why.
So I guess what I'm trying to pick apart is - were these sorts of giant dinners (and each course would have its own alcoholic beverage) standard for the type of people eating at Delmonico's? How would a modern person find eating this type of menu? Or were diners actually eating everything at the time, or was it more a conspicuous show rather than a "delicious, let's eat every course" type of deal?
A final point is that sure, even in French haute cuisine you have rich dishes like this, but what customers were eating at some of the banquets at Delmonico's doesn't sound like small gourmet plates.
On the other end of the spectrum, if you've done much fine dining you've probably had a beurre blanc. It's a very light-tasting, delicate sauce, and a classic staple of French cuisine. It's also composed of sauteed shallots, white wine reduced to around an eighth of its original volume, and butter. Lots and lots of butter, which makes up most of the sauce by volume. It's quite easy to make, and I highly recommend it. It may give you some perspective on how very "heavy" ingredients like butter can be used in ways you may not recognize.