It's a good job that Russia is (was) already a major net exporter of food and in fact has all the natural resources it would ever need to succeed as a modern nation state then.
Russia is one of the world's richest countries in raw materials, many of which are significant inputs for an industrial economy. Russia accounts for around 20 percent of the world's production of oil and natural gas and possesses large reserves of both fuels. This abundance has made Russia virtually self-sufficient in energy and a large-scale exporter of fuels. Oil and gas were primary hard-currency earners for the Soviet Union, and they remain so for the Russian Federation. Russia also is self-sufficient in nearly all major industrial raw materials and has at least some reserves of every industrially valuable nonfuel mineral--even after the productive mines of Ukraine, Kazakstan, and Uzbekistan no longer were directly accessible. Tin, tungsten, bauxite, and mercury were among the few natural materials imported in the Soviet period. Russia possesses rich reserves of iron ore, manganese, chromium, nickel, platinum, titanium, copper, tin, lead, tungsten, diamonds, phosphates, and gold, and the forests of Siberia contain an estimated one-fifth of the world's timber, mainly conifers (see fig. 8; Environmental Conditions, ch. 3).
Russia needs to deal with corruption, create safe conditions for foreign business to invest and take advantage of they hydrocarbon and mineral potential to build lasting high tech industries.
Russia is one of the biggest hydrocarbon exporters in the world, they have massive mineral deposits and is by far one of the countries in the world that does not need to expanding.
Russia could try to expand into its own mostly uninhibited territory and thrive on the vast resources it has. But in order to do that, Russia needs to fight domestic corruption instead of embracing it.
Russia fighting domestic corruption is never gonna happen. Russia is made of corruption, and it always has been; in the Tsarist era, in the Soviet era, and today.