Hi, I am going to tackle the second part of your question, which relates to the ID-cards and how their existence was handled during the genocide. My sources for this are Gérard Prunier's book The Rwanda Crisis: History of a Genocide and Lt. Gen. Roméo Dallaire's book Shake Hands with the Devil. I am unable to check at the moment but there might even be a passage on this in Prunier's later book From Genocide to Continental War: The "Congolese" Conflict and the Crisis of Contemporary Africa, also known as Africa’s World War: Congo, the Rwandan Genocide, and the Making of Continental Catastrophe, but both his first book and Dallaire's shed light on your question around the IDs. Instances from Dallaire's book are also backed up by reports to the UN and within the UN during the genocide.
Finally, we come to the point were ID cards majorly came into play during the genocide. I will use the capital Kigali as an example but the bottom line is that the same situation happened all over the country in areas controlled by the RGF (the formal military arm of the government). In the captial, roadblocks sprang up in increasingly big numbers. These were sometimes manned by regular army (RGF), sometimes by police but oftentimes by Interahamwe. Here we get to the core of your question. People were still trying to move through the city, sometimes trying to escape the increasingly heated atmosphere between the military parties, especially after the RPF moved into a complex, sometimes to get to one of the "safe zones" of the city.
Another form the brutal acts took, was targeting places people fled to after the killings started. This included churches, schools and other sanctuaries. We have reports from United Nations Military Observers (UNMOS) being present at some places but unable to stop the killings. In at least one case Dallaire reported that all people within a church were killed with machetes. This included not only Tutsi but also Hutu.
This included not only Tutsi who were at times coming out of hiding but also Hutu. At the roadblocks, people were required to show their IDs. Those highlighted as Tutsi were often killed on the spot. Reports send to the UN mention slain bodies lying in ditches next to roadblocks or being loaded onto trucks to be moved away. Those who didn't have an ID on them were targeted, too. While there are no definite reports on if this was handled the same way at all roadblocks, we do know that in several cases Tutsi and Hutu alike were killed at roadblocks if they couldn't provide IDs. This is turn implicates that there is not necessarily a physical or otherwise obvious distinction between Tutsi and Hutu but I will leave this part of your question to others who are familiar with it or the research and facts around it.
My part on physical atributes is based on some testimonies, a book and real life logical explanation that could be solidified by those 2 former sources : 1. tutsies were believed and supposed to have thinner traits and not hutus (or mostly not ; to which the nose was the most obvious), 2. You had people in rwanda with such characteristics, 3. Therefore those people would be targets due to that.