I'm curious about Y. Pestis outbreaks in the early modern and modern state (whatever you feel comfortable talking about). Nowadays, mentioning "The Plague ☠️" causes a really strong imaginative response, even though the y. Pestis bacteria is very easily treatable with modern medicine.
Did that response exist in the UK or British colonies during the late outbreaks of the 2nd Plague Pandemic in the late 17th and early 18th centuries or in the 3rd Plague Pandemic, and if so, did the central state make efforts to combat or encourage it?
First, your comment in the Columbus Dispatch made me curious if the British response to the 1918 pandemic varied across local councils (as it did with their equivalents in the US), or was it mandated from up top? And given wartime censorship, how have you approached primary source research for it?
Second, while I (think!) I'm familiar with the general story of the advent of the NHS in postwar Britain, any good survey recommendations on its implementation?
To ask another way, how did the trade unionist movement as a political movement alter/change/etc how public health was conceptualized and practiced in early 20th century Britain?
"By the first decades of twentieth century public health programs evolved to not only include the municipal or communal level, but also the familial or even individual bodily level of British citizens as well. As a result, the British state became more intimately involved in the lives of British citizens than ever before, targeting in the most private aspects of their lives—their very bodies—through national legislation and local governmental medical administration aimed at improving the physical health and fitness: maternal care, infant welfare, children’s diet and nutrition and healthy development, venereal diseases and alcohol intake as bodily poisons, as well as instituting efforts to improve bodily physical fitness both in children and adults. These public health programs reflected the growth of a more interventionist, “new liberal” British state that became increasingly concerned about the social welfare of its citizens and the Medical Officers of Health were at the heart of its implementation.".
Oh absolutely! State sponsored public health efforts were certainly met with backlash. There was considerable pushback against compulsory vaccination in the 19th century for example. See my piece on this with Origins here:
BUT, while domestic responses to the pandemic were comparatively minimalist, the militaries around the world were very concerned about the flu, the impact it could have on the end of the war, and the ability to keep soldiers fighting. I've written about this in my article “H1N1 in the ‘A1 Empire’: Pandemic Influenza, Military Medicine, and the British Transition from War to Peace, 1918–1920,” Social History of Medicine 33 (May 2020): 604–621.
If you want a good read on this I recommend George Dehner's Influenza: A Century of Science and Public Health Response (University of Pittsburgh Press, 2012).
A great question my friend I'm sorry I don't have an answer for you--but if I were to take up another influenza 1918 project, this would be a good one.
The 1918 flu is the subject of my research on this subject especially, so I'm happy to address this. (I've also written on this for Origins too! ) To say influenza in 1918 was "kept secret" is not entirely accurate, so much as its origins were blamed on other nations (hence the misnomer "Spanish flu").