Just to clarify based on my own experiences in service (18 years in and counting) . . . the vast majority of officers have to either graduate a service academy, graduate ROTC at a civilian school, or have a bachelor's degree and then graduate Officer Candidate School. I don't believe this changed to a significant degree from the Vietnam era, or any era since WWII.
Generally, there is a class distinction between officers and enlisted, but this varies by each individual service's culture, and it's generally not seen as a reflection on the individual's class upbringing, but more as a reflection of the disparity in rank. I've worked with officers who grew up dirt poor before they found the means to attend college, and enlisted from middle to upper-middle-class families, so it's not something where a "gentleman" has any social rank independent of their military rank.
I'd like to ask about the perceived demographic and socioeconomic disparity between commissioned officers, who I would imagine may have been ROTC in college (correct me if I am wrong) or out of the various military academies, compared to a typical soldier. Did a front-line soldier from poor beginnings and an entirely different background resent these upper-crust individuals as a norm?
Few of the men were draftees, and more likely they had volunteered for the military expecting something different which never materialized, hoping to escape their neglectful childhoods and failures in adolescence, only to be again disappointed with military life.
As for the why, motivations vary from incident to incident. The minority of cases were 'lone wolves', some single soldier who acted on his own. In a study done shortly after the war on the American combat soldier, these incidents, which were estimated as making up 20 percent of fragging attempts, were described as follows:
Could this be a case of fraggings being under counted since, presumably, a combat unit would be more able to hide what happened or blame it on enemy forces?