Republicans have been trying to tear down our tried and true government institutions and social programs for decades they cut taxes always even when they earmark more money than taxes bring in and they don't actually cut the budget but only things they don't like while giving money to corporations and the military. Sadly one of last conservative Republican things done in this country were done under Nixon with the establishment of the EPA. If Republicans were actual conservatives they would be doing everything in their power to save our environment there is nothing more conservative than preserving our natural resources for the generations to come.
free speech means that the government has no right to regulate speech unless said speech would severely impact the public good the last part has been adjudicated in the supreme court and added on but essentially only such speech that would (not could) lead to violence or national security of the highest order does the government have the ability to stifle speech in most cases.
>Along with communicative restrictions, less protection is afforded to uninhibited speech when the government acts as subsidizer or speaker, is an employer, controls education, or regulates the mail, airwaves, legal bar, military, prisons, and immigration.
Speech in this case is not limited to vocal speech but any expression of thought or emotion so anything that can convey expression including but not limited to spoken and written language, art of any kind, body language, music etc. Also covered under free speech is the right to not be compelled to speak by the government so just as they cannot stop you from saying things they also cannot make you say things against your will.
Free Speech is basically "the government can't arrest me for expressing myself in a way they don't like, unless that way is a direct harm to someone.".
Yep. Conservatives don’t care about freedom. They just want the freedom to be the worst, most vicious versions of themselves without criticism. They’ll hide their bigotry behind whatever they need to (states rights, religious freedom, personal freedom) but in the end, they’re just bad people who don’t want to be told they can’t be racists or homophobes. Your freedom means nothing to them.
To them, free speech just means they can say whatever they want and nobody else can say anything about it. They literally have no clue what the first amendment actually states or protects.
Wasnt necessarily arguing against you. I feel like we are just saying the same thing a little differently.