If the court mail has been placed back into your box after you've written "NOT AT ADDRESS" on it, then in addition to just informing the court that the address is wrong, also inform the court that the USPS is re-delivering the mail instead of returning it (they're basically required to return court mail if it's incorrectly addressed), and complain to the highest person at the USPS that you can find. Heck, you can take the nuclear option and complain to your Congressional representative - likely extra effective right now, because both sides of the aisle have been trying to blame each other for USPS dysfunction in recent years.
Also, what are the risks, exactly? Because this has been going on for so long already, and because like you said I'm not sure I can avoid this at my new PO Box (I know there's a form for getting only one person's mail forwarded to a new address, but I don't expect that it'll be any more successful than anything else saying that only one person's mail should be delivered to my PO Box) I'm concerned that whatever could happen may have already started to occur.
Like I said, I have written "NOT AT ADDRESS" and "RETURN TO SENDER" on the mail and returned them to the post office and asked them not to deliver any more mail with that person's name to my PO box, but that doesn't work - the mail just ends up right back in my PO box, with those notes in my handwriting on the envelope. The postmaster at the post office has also asked them not to deliver any mail with that person's name to my PO Box, and has put a note that people are not to deliver that person's mail to my PO box on the inside - I can see this note on a piece of hot pink paper covering the entire back of my box when I open the door.
There are risks, but all you can control is write on the boxes and letter NOT AT ADDRESS and return those to the post office and ask them to not deliver any mail with that person's name addresses to your PO box.
Ooh gotcha, thanks I will give your suggestions a whirl and hopefully, I can stop getting these darn mailbox-cloggers, lol (I got a small-sized PO box, and I don't live very close anymore, so it's like a 1.5 hour trip each way to get to the PO box location. I figured, ok, I'll stop by once every month or so. Welp, not with these cloggers filling up in my mailbox, lol. A real pain!).