If they are evicting her for violating the lease by not maintaining the property and/or causing property damage through her negligence/inaction, she would not be covered by the moratorium.
That is correct. Legally, only a judge can give the order to evict a tenant by force from the unit, and this order is handed down and then turned over to the Sheriff to physically perform the eviction. is a rundown of the process in CA. Yes, if anyone tries to force her out of the unit, change the locks, etc. tomorrow, call the police to report the illegal eviction. is information specifically on illegal evictions in CA, just because it's good to know in order to be prepared. Again, the sheriffs handle valid evictions, so anyone other than a sheriff trying to force her out of the unit is not doing so legally. Even in the case of an eviction that has gone through the courts, a landlord must use a sheriff to perform the eviction.
In order to be evicted, both her and the landlord would go to court and argue their case. The judge would have to issue an eviction order that says she must leave by a certain date. If that date came and went, the landlord would get the police (often the sheriff's department but not necessarily) to remove her, but that takes time to schedule as well. A piece of paper that says, "Be out by July 16th - Landlord" is not an eviction notice.
I don't know if it would help anything, but you could reach out to the landlord and explain the situation. It might be that you can get the landlord to delay filing for an eviction, but in cases of property damage landlords tend to just want tenants out so they can regain control of the property, stop the damage, and repair. So the landlord may not be willing to put any brakes on their timeline because that could potentially result in additional damage to the property. However, it's probably worth a shot. Worst they can say is "No, we will be filing for an eviction immediately".
So the landlord cannot evict without a court order/ judge hearing both cases? And if anybody shows up to try and remove her before then I should call the police?