when a (good) scholar/author kind of invents the childhood and early adulthood of someone for whom we only have records from a small portion of their life, based on information about the context?
when dialogue/scenes/thoughts are added to a historical narrative, not really a "historical fiction" scenario but certainly somewhat fictionalized (and again: by a responsible, good scholar or author).
Unfortunately, historians are prone to cross over into historical fiction when writing about the thoughts, feelings, and early lives of particularly colorful figures like Akhenaten. For example, Donald Redford's Akhenaten: The Heretic King reconstructs a meek Akhenaten intimidated by his own court.
Fleshing out a biography based on the careful appraisal of archaeological and textual evidence - while noting where one leaves the beaten track - can lead to new insights. Bettany Hughes' acknowledges that a historical Helen almost certainly did not exist, but she successfully incorporates archaeological information and Linear B and Hittite texts to produce a very interesting look at what the life of an elite woman in Mycenaean Greece may have been like.
I think authors have to be very careful to note where the evidence ends and speculation begins. Speculation based on historical context is fairly common in ancient history given the paucity of biographical information about even the most well-attested individuals. For example, we know virtually nothing about the life of Queen Puduḫepa of Ḫatti prior to her marriage to (the future) king Ḫattušili III except that she was the daughter of a priest in Kizzuwatna (Cilicia). We could speculate about her early life based on the excavations in that region (e.g. Sirkeli Höyük and Tatarlı Höyük, probably ancient Lawazantiya and Kummani, though it's not clear which is which) and what we know about religious practices in Kizzuwatna, but it's necessary to note that we have no textual sources that discuss her life prior to the age of around seventeen and that a discussion of her childhood is necessarily highly speculative.