Wow, you’re right, those are some “interesting” opinions on the “natural” role of women. Thanks for the rundown, it was equally interesting and infuriating to read.
Thank you for an amazing answer, I did suspect the Instagram post I linked was at best somewhat skewed. That’s not to say Ruth Bader Ginsberg didn’t rule, she simply wasn’t the sole player behind Women’s Rights^TM.
While it wasn't the full closed-door to sexism that Ginsburg and others had hoped, it provided a great precedent for later cases - often involving Ginsburg! - to say, "no, you can't legally discriminate based on gender" in other specific ways, which is something that had not previously been done before. The following year, Ginsburg would set up and lead the Women's Rights Project in the ACLU in order to put and keep equal rights for women on the organization's radar, which does mean that she deserves credit for the good work the WRP would go on to do in fighting for equal rights for women. She was involved with other SCOTUS cases dealing with gender bias enshrined in law throughout the 1970s, including Moritz v. Commissioner (1972), which struck down a law that allowed a state allowance for hiring a home health aide only if you were a woman or widowed man, and Frontiero v. Richardson (1973), which required the military to give benefits to male dependents of female officers just as it did female dependents of male ones.
No Constitutional Right to Be Ladies: Women and the Obligations of Citizenship, Linda K. Kerber (1999).
First, though, we have to be clear about which women we’re talking about when we’re talking about women and the law in America. In 1989, Black feminist scholar Kimberlé Williams Crenshaw created the legal framework she called “intersectionality” to identify how the law impacted women differently based on their race and other aspects of their identity. The clearest example of this is the 19th Amendment. Although the Amendment prohibited states from preventing people from voting on account of their gender, they could still use race as a factor. ( with Dr. Martha Jones is a great read on the topic. As is her new book!) In effect, the path that non-disabled cis white women followed and/or forged is different than the path followed by Black, Indigenous, Hispanic, Pacific Islander and Hawaiian, and Asian women in America. So, generally speaking, we’re talking about white women when we’re talking about women’s rights and the laws.
Women's Rights in the U.S.A.: Policy Debates and Gender Roles, Dorothy M. Stetson and Dorothy E. McBride (1997).
The landmark case that brought the Equal Protection Clause to bear on women's rights is Reed v. Reed (1971). Sally and Cecil Reed were divorced, and Sally had been unable to keep full custody of their son as she had wanted. While at his father's house, their son apparently committed suicide with one of Cecil's guns. Both parents filed to be the administrator of his estate (Sally actually submitting her petition first), but it was in Idaho state law that men must be preferred to women when it came to estate probate, so Cecil was given their son's belongings. This traveled up the chain to the United States Supreme Court, and Ginsburg wrote the brief defending Sally Reed's rights along with the director of the ACLU. SCOTUS found in her favor, and it was deemed unconstitutional to enshrine a preference for one gender over another in law; Congress would go on to rewrite a number of laws that had done so.
The case was as far as i know the first women's rights case in the supreme court, and an early attempt at using the fourteenth amendment to combat sex discrimination, albeit not the equal protections clause that was used by Ginsburg.
The newfound equal protection clause protection against discrimination spurred both legislative and judicial action and put a lot of existing laws or practices in an unclear legal position. The cooperation on this case was probably the basis for Ginsburg joining the ACLU and their women’s rights project. Going forward, they identified some core areas of discrimination that could be combated both in the legislative and judicial area, the discrimination in credit was one of those areas.