Great question! Before we go any further I want to give a quick shoutout to the fine folks at /r/linguistics. It's an amazing subreddit which is generally better suited to these types of questions (duh) but I believe there are some linguists on the payroll in this illustrious place. In lieu of an actual linguist, however, you'll have to deal with yours' truly today... just some random guy with an interest in linguistics, a chip on his shoulder and more time than he should have at 5AM in the morning. Think of me as your hungover, slightly pervy substitute teacher, or your step dad who'll never be as good as your real dad. Make of that what you will. Now then, let's pluck this duck.
One down two to go. Why does "daughter" have a lot of silent letters? This is to do with the conservative nature of English spelling. See, at the time when the spelling standards for older variants of English (Middle English in this case) where being experimented with the spelling "daughter" didn't contain any silent letters. It would have been pronounced something like "dou-ch-ter" (with the "ch" here being my attempt to represent that funny guttural sound like in "loch" and somewhat like in German "ich"). If you can read IPA, this is /ˈdɔu̯xtər/. As time went on though English people got annoyed with having to make this unattractive guttural sound and grew bored of diphthongs (okay, that isn't exactly how it happened), and so what was once /ˈdɔu̯xtər/ became the pleasant sounding word we know today. That is, in spoken English it did. The spelling rules of English have not been properly updated for several centuries, and even then they were really rather archaic to say the least. This is why, for example, "night" and "knight" are pronounced the same today whereas, in Middle English, knight was pronounced /'kniçt/ (k-nicht -- "ch" being the sound in German "ich") and night /'niçt/. And this pretty much explains all the spelling irregularities and silent letters you see in English. French has much the same problem, perhaps worse. Languages like Finnish do not have this problem, the Finns being a sensible and hardy people who are far too busy and stopping Russians from stealing their land for potato cultivation to be worried about such silly things as "maintaining our linguistic heritage", far too rational to adhere to such thoughts as "purely phonetic spelling looks silly". Their language is pronounced exactly as it is written -- learn the sounds of the letters and you're practically fluent already!
So, with that in mind, where did "son" come from? Dʰugh₂tḗr looks very much like the word "daughter" but "son" and dʰeh₁ylios are clearly nothing alike. Well from PIE spawned a bunch of other languages, some of which went on to become proto languages in their own right. Some of these are Proto-Germanic (the most recent common ancestor of the Germanic languages; English, German, Swedish, etc), Proto-Celtic (the ancestor of Irish, Gaelic, Welsh, Breton, etc) and Proto-Indo-Iranian (the ancestor of the many Iranian and northern Indian languages, Farsi and Hindi being the most widely spoken of these respectively). In Proto-Germanic, the PIE word dʰeh₁ylios (son) was replaced by sunuz, itself from PIE suh₁nús which was another word for "son", stemming from the root sewH meaning "to give birth". This word has come down to us in English as "son". In the Romance languages however, both the words "son" and "daughter" are derived from the PIE source stemming from dʰeh₁ (whence "daughter" comes), with Italian "figlio" and "figlia" coming ultimately (through Vulgar Latin) from the aforementioned PIE terms. So this is why "son" and "daughter" are nothing alike; the Germans basically said "nah bugger this, we prefer this word" and that's just how it is.
Or to use a more modern day equivalent, Dutch "dochter", which, since the Dutch were completely unconcerned making that shift like English, means daughter.
As an aside: Several people have mentioned that the Dutch word for "daughter" is dochter, but it's more widespread than that. Dutch and English belong to a Germanic sub-group called Ingvaeonic, or North Sea Germanic. AFAIK, all the other Ingvaeonic languages (the Frisian languages, Low German, and even Scots) have also preserved the /x/ in dochter. Only English is the odd one out.