I will check them out! Thank you very much. Financial history, including public finance, is very fascinating to me, but it's shockingly hard to find information on China outside the taxation systems. The Economic History of China: From Antiquity to the Nineteenth Century had some good information on lineage partnerships during the Qing, but not incredibly much.
Yingcong Dai, 'Qing Military Institutions and their Effects on Government, Economy, and Society, 1640-1800', Journal of Chinese History 1:1 (2017).
From a purely militaristic standpoint, then, it is fair to say that while in absolute terms the Qing had a material edge on any one European power, we can speak of some pretty substantial disparities even before the 1757 point of divergence proposed by Tonio Andrade. Firstly, the Qing maintained an army that was proportionately far smaller than its European counterparts; secondly, its revenue collection was far smaller in scale; thirdly, its military equipment was starting to fall behind and it was not developing the means to catch up; finally, it was definitively behind in its maritime technology, infrastructure, and expertise. This is not to say the Qing were some massive terminal failure: as an empire whose ambitions were concentrated against small inland states who, by comparison, were far weaker, the Qing were never pressed to mobilise a larger number of troops than were needed for a regional campaign, nor to establish a fleet to deal with maritime foes that they did not (yet) have.
So if I'm understanding correctly, while the Qing did generally have a larger armed force, though they were behind on the european powers on military and naval technology, with things like the flintlock and square rigged squares, though this might be because their goals generally didnt require them (because the general weakness of their targets compared to themselves and the lack of naval enemies)? But this leads me to another question, is the reason that Europeans lead on military and naval technology because of the more fractious nature of its polities and higher abundance of wars, which encouraged them to develop new technologies to gain advantages on eachother?