I haven't heard anyone argue that German or Japanese wartime tobacco and cigarettes were high-quality or particularly enjoyable compared to American; Americans were famously flush with tobacco.
Even before the war the bulk of German tobacco wasn't imported from the Americas, that was really only the case for luxury tobacco products.
There was also significant tobacco production in the southern Balkans (Northern Greece, Bulgaria) and in Turkey which was accessible for import by Nazi Germany during the war once those regions were occupied or in the case of Turkey land borders opened with them.
Germans often turned to growing their own tobacco, both at home and on farms (though they continued to import tobacco from annexed and neutral territories - see comments below). While the Nazi Party was officially against tobacco use, it was still included in ration kits. Roughly 80% of German men were smokers in 1937; during the war, imports did drop drastically and cigarettes were more valuable and consistent as a currency than cash.
Japan cigarette consumption was 71 billion cigarettes in 1941, dropping to 64 billion cigarettes in 1944, and 31 billion cigarettes in 1945. This drop was caused by the destruction of cigarette and paper factories and the scarcity of tobacco from Manchuria and China getting through to Japan -- the Japanese had expended a lot of effort in expanding their tobacco industry on the mainland. They had actually been maneuvering for a long time to monopolize the tobacco industry in China but were beaten to market by British and American Tobacco (BAT) and domestic Chinese production. The Japanese Imperial Tobacco Monopoly finally emerged victorious over its Anglo-American rival when all the areas of BAT tobacco production in China fell into Japanese hands after 1937.
Japan also used colonial Korea for much of their non-domestic tobacco production. Other Japanese cigarettes were produced with tobacco from the Philippines, Taiwan and Java. At the time of Japan's surrender in World War II, income from the tobacco tax accounted for as much as 20 percent of the government's total revenue.
Smoking for Empire: The Production and Consumption of Tobacco in Colonial Korea, 1910–1945, Michael Kim.
source: Golden-Silk Smoke: A History of Tobacco in China, 1550–2010. University of California Press, 10 apr. 2011.