First of all, no respectful expert will say so. If you open any books about any major conflict, there are always will be several reasons listed. Such things are complex and can not be explained by one factor. Aside from this, this message disregards the Ukrainian position as a victim and ignores valuable input, considering how alongside it is with other nations' experiences that have been subject to Moscow's influence in a past.
It's only different in a way, that Ukrainian managed to hold long enough to wait for western response. Just as in Georgia and Moldova Russian used separatists as a pretext for invasion and military help. Considering how they used separatists in Crimea in 1992, I suspect they were threatening Ukrainian government with similar tricks they already practiced in Moldova by that time. I would also argue that shale gas deposits were also found in Western Ukraine which were not occupied by russians and there are still no deposit development by this day, and it seems like russian presence isn't the only issue.
A deal was made with a major gas company to start industrialization infrastructure in ukraine for the gas deposits in 2013, russia invaded in 2014 to destabilize the area and halt that development.
Of course there are infinite complexities, but this is the simple fact that people don’t seem to understand. Russia has other ulterior motives to invade ukraine, but this is the reason that gives them no other choice but to invade.
We have already figured out it is russians homes, and ukrainians are "defending them" from russian army who the russians support.
Ukraine, or at least parts of it, were long considered a core part of the Russian ethnic identity and controlling Ukraine meant Russia was controlling all of the ancestral homeland of the Rus. In fact, the medieval name for the land that’s now Ukraine was Ruthenia, a latin name for land of the Rus. It’s like if the US suddenly became obsessed with controlling Great Britain because that’s part of our cultural origin. Worse, if Ukraine westernized successfully and becomes prosperous, it’ll make Russians wonder why they are putting up with the oligarchs stealing all the wealth and undercut the old, tired argument that a western-style government is incompatible with Russian culture.