I wouldn't say it's anger. It's disappointment because Poland actively chose to be ignorant demagoges. Is it really necessary to bite our ankles for a publicity stunt?
The first source (second is paywalled) shows Germanys stance on sending their own tanks 8 month ago. The allegation germany denied other nations to send Leopards is not mentioned.
Issue 2: Germany not sending leopards of its own is a completely separate issue. I fucking agree that they should. But its their own choice and afaik political will in germany is fairly divided on the issue. Germany has given a ton of other aid and should givr leopard 2 aswell.
Leopard 2s are developed in Germany and sold by Germany. Therefore, if Poland wants to resell or give away the tanks, they need to ask Germany permission first. That way, countries cannot just give arms they buy from Germany to someone that Germany does not want having those arms.
It's a pretty standard thing to do for most nations that export arms, not just with stuff Germany sells.
It is a basic part of pretty much all arms sales worldwide. Every arms export has clauses like this. Countries don't want their weapons and technology to fall into the weapons of their enemies for example. For example the US would block any request of reexport of for example F35 to Iran, China or any other country like this. And these clauses can't just exclude certain countries from this check, as weapon systemes will be used for decades and you can't predict if a friendly country now will be friendly in 20 years. So what you do is block all weapon transfers by default and then by applying for an export request you can get the permission to export the weapons.
As a manufactoring country, you don't want to see your weapons in the hands of the wrong people, so you include a veto in your arms deals for every kind of reselling/redistribution.
The ramifications of not abiding by these would be pretty substantial as you would be seen as not trustworthy by every single country and you severly limit your chances of importing weapons in the future.