So in these party platforms, we can get a glimpse of what alternative political proposals would most likely have been and the result is very different from the idiosyncratic dictatorship of Hitler.
TLDR: In short, not only did Hitler have different "messages" for different audiences at different stages, but different stylistic elements in Hitler's speechmaking appealed in different ways to those different audiences. For the cranks in the early years, it was Hitlers's clarity and focus. For the bored Munich literati, it was the tittillating radicalism and even savagery of his words (and of his racism). For the nationwide right-wing in 1929-30, it was his anti-socialism, plus the socially-minded populism... the latter of which was actually showcased by Hitler's speaking-style, which was more populist. And for "Germany" as a whole, his dramatic pretensions and megalomania dovetailed perfectly (like that of a modern pop-star/diva) with the audience's expectations, turning him into a true celebrity and projecting onto him the role of savior.
4) After the Nazi "breakthrough" in the 1930 elections, and in the face of ongoing economic collapse and governmental paralysis, Hitler again shifted tack, and rhetorically now presented himself as Germany's "savior"... though this meant, in practice, making full use of his new status... as a celebrity. He was increasingly known for being known. He was The Latest... Hitler began speaking to stadiums with huge audiences and highly-staged performances, and going to hear Hitler speak was a bit like going to a pop concert: the audience was predisposed to "see" his greatness... and project it onto him even if they didn't see it.
Now as for the man Hitler himself and how and why he learned to speak that way: any public speaker is not judged on his content or manner, but in how they appeal to their audience. Hitler was without a doubt groomed for the task of appealing to popular German sentiment. He did possess some natural talent in speaking, which led to his prominence in the NSDAP in the first place. That being said, he did not become Fuehrer over night; Ernst Rohm was a leading contender for party leadership (which is why of course he was purged in 1934.) and Hitler was overshadowed by original DAP founding party members like Anton Drexler, Dietrich Eckart, Gottfried Feder, Karl Harrer. Rudolf Hess also overshadowed Hitler for some time, but would later become a leading Nazi during the Reich under Hitler.
This air of political naiveté and candid, off-the-cuff style leads us to the difference between Hitler as a candidate and as a ruler. The transition from one to the next would come with the crucial help of figures outside the Party but living within the frustrated right wing. Hitler would take the substance of their plan (authoritarianism) without the style. Among these figures, NDVP leader Alfred Hugenberg (who remodeled his party based on the Nazis) and BVP leader Fritz Schäffer were openly monarchist. Franz Von Pappen, a crucial figure in the rise of Hitler, was a supporter of a "concealed dictatorship" by what was known as presidential government, ie Hindenburg allowing ministers to act entirely by emergency decree and protecting them from the Reichstag's censure.