That is really helpful, thank you I will file a claim. I asked a friend who worked the same two events with me, and based on what she stated and the amount I got on my original check, it appears it was about $60 of tips (give or take what the difference would have been if I had actually been included). I was furious that I didn't get my tips due to what is essentially a clerical error, so I have already left the company, which means retaliation is not really going to be an issue unless there is something I'm not considering. I just think that if your system relies on a literal piece of paper that signs me in and out and can be lost or destroyed during transit, that is not a system I want to rely on for my paycheck. They base payroll on that sign in/sign out sheet, which feels illegal to me somehow. My payment was delayed until the following pay period due to this error (which seems to go against "reasonably knowing I was working," since they had me on the schedule and should have known whether I physically signed the sheet or not), plus I did have a text confirmation it would be addressed. I'll include that note in the claim, if there is a way to do that as well. Thank you again.
That one semester of contract law I did in university did not do enough to teach me about labor law violations!
good point, they had a small section of labor law notes in that course but not nearly enough to prepare you for entering the work force. It was only after entering and doing resourcing myself that I started learning just how many labor law violations most companies just let slide.
Yeah, I can see how it would be one of those "technically legal but slides into gray area" things, as far as the sign in/out sheet goes. I think the fact that the only "record" they have in payroll is based on that is a little questionable, since when I called to correct it, they said they "didn't have a record I worked" that event and it took going into what sounded like a completely different system to see that I was on the schedule. This company also did not pay me for events worked in 2018 until about 6 weeks ago because of "missing paperwork" which, now that I've done some recruiting/onboarding work at my old job, is just straight up illegal, as far as I understand (at least, at my old job, nobody was even allowed to start work until their paperwork was in, so the fact that I worked 2 jobs with improper paperwork and it wasn't noticed or corrected or 3 years seems messed up). This gig was the last job I worked for them and since I've been paid for it (a pay period late and less tips), I feel like I don't have anything to lose by filing a formal complaint.
I would tend to agree that you have nothing to lose as you already quit, and have already received all pay they are likely to pay you willingly.