For job roles in particular, Tolkien was not the creator of the image of dwarfs as smiths and craftsmen; Nordic myth had dwarfs create Thor's hammer Mjolnir, for example, as well as other treasures, and the ring of the Nibelunglied, which was adapted in Richard Wagner's Ring Cycle was forged by dwarfs. However, it can very easily be said that Tolkien codified certain images of mythological creatures, so that they were picked up by many subsequent authors.
While these myths are recorded in the 13th century, the saturation of our society with these fantastical archetypes is owed in no small part to the massive advancements in technology of the past century coinciding with the timely publication of Tolkien's universe. Allowing for the dissemination of countless reiterations of what became the 'generic' fantasy template.
Dwarfs & Dwarves. The former is indicative of something of diminutive stature, as well as a preternatural creature found in tales of folklore. The latter was popularised by J.R Tolkien's works, though it did have limited use in English works before this. Tolkien is often regarded as having set the precedent of what a dwarf embodies in fantasy but dwarfs are a staple of mythology.
Not the person to whom you are replying and I may be wrong, but I believe the people called dwarfs may well be named after the mythic figures, and not vice versa.
While in modern parlance, dwarf means of diminutive stature, interestingly, in the Scandinavian primary sources, Dwarfs aren't mentioned as short.
I think fantasy Dwarfs and dwarfism are unrelated (or the latter derives meaning from the former). Dwarfs of myth, were magical, sometimes invisible, craftsmen. Later in Anglo-Saxon oral tradition, we hear of Dwarfs being short. I can only speculate that this is once again a mixing of myths and legends, where short ab-humans have always been commonplace in folklore and this has conflated with the Norse tales of magical craftsmen. As to why, again its speculation, but perhaps in the Danish and Norwegian migrations to England they disseminated their mythic tradition.