While we’re we’re waiting there I was in park at the 15 minute mark of waiting and took it off the Mount to get an alternate route I will take a ticket for that. But tasing me because your mad at my words is pretty ridiculous agree… in the neck right behind the head.
Let’s be completely honest here. I was in a good mood and happy to comply with every until I realized her was writing me a ticket for MY PHONE SCREEN BEING OFF on my pant leg after making us wait 30+ minutes. I didn’t mind waiting, I didn’t mind the any of that, but the entire operation took 30+ minutes to even move one car lenh? You try being a Lyft driver barely making 10.25 of that not including gas. And being told you also have to pay a 100 dollar ticket by the person who just made you wait. You can pretend like I was in the wrong but I’m not. I a guy who wants to make money super bowl weekend and support my family only to get bullied into a bull shit ticket. Try again sir, being tased near you brain is beyond ridiculous ESPECIALLY when there’s no signs of resisting OR ANY verbal “I’m going to tase you” NOTHING. If you agree that’s right…. That’s how people are dying.
People are dying because they're acting like idiots when they are around cops. Maybe instead of running when they see a cop (which makes it seem like they have something to hide), they act cool and cooperate. Life goes a lot smoother that way when you do as you're asked.
But in most states, if the vehicle is on the road and you touch the phone (even if at a stop light) it's a ticketable offense.
Georgia requires you not to be holding or touching your cell phone when driving. So giving you a ticket for it is perfectly fine. If you are going to drive with Lyft you should review all driving laws again.
That in itself no. But given that you had additional interactions and are possibly leaving other stuff out you may have been legally tazed. Again consult with an attorney.
You can get an attorney to try to get the footage. Did you go to the doctor after you got out? There would be evidence from that.