There are two clues in the title: former colonial powers, and decolonization, the ending of colonial status. A presumption of independent statehood is (or at least was in theory) that other states don't dictate your internal political system to you when things go off-script, otherwise there's not much point to independence.
But having a coup of cancelling elections doesn't override the principle of sovereignty. That shouldn't surprise us when we recall that the UN of 1945 or 1965 included countries with a remarkably diverse range of regimes, from western states with regular elections to one-party governments or military regimes with at best strictly limited voting.
So in sum, western countries didn't generally intervene in African coups because in those days it was considered contrary to international law (though that of course didn't stop less overt involvement, often against elected governments), and because its moral case for doing so wasn't what you'd call watertight, and because geopolitical or economic interest tended to trump ethical policy.
Note that there's nothing in either provision limiting the right to political independence to countries with civilian or elected regimes: it's subject only to compliance with compliance with the fundamental requirements of the Charter, notably non-aggression against others. The principle doesn't override the UN's right to act (or authorise action by others) to keep the peace or respond to other extreme emergencies: innovations such as the 1948 genocide convention hinted at a possibility of internationally-agreed action, though the qualifying conditions and appropriate responses remained undefined.
(2) Here the nature of indeterminacy and generality of the question makes compounding a constructive argument for it rather difficult, not only because the complexity of the period, but because direct military interventions outside of UN were rare. Since the condition is overt military action after a coup, the example will be Panama intervention. But this intervention, to be generalized, is again problematic. It was at the end of cold war and one of the major factors - bipolarity - was at its end. Also, the intervention had general support in Panama.