Thanks for replying! I'm also curious about that insight into Hebrew's origin. It must have been a shock for linguists to conclude that a sacred language like Hebrew can't have a divine and unchanging nature. I've always understood that one of the big social implications of Darwinism is the conclusion that the human species is not eternal and unchanging.
If linguists already made that connection about Hebrew, are we giving too much credit to Darwin for applying prevalent theories about change over time to his own research on biology? I haven't read The Descent of Man or much of Darwin's other works, but I'm curious if some breakthroughs attributed to Darwin may have been common knowledge when applied to other fields at the time.
Though not exhaustive, I hope this does give you some sense of the historical linguistics background and the thoughts of scholars on the origin of languages in a pre-Darwinian era. I'm happy to try to elaborate on some things if you're interested.
This list of theorists does include a number of very familiar names, though: Dante imagined three distinct families of languages in Europe, "Northern"/Germanic, "Southern"/Romance, and "Eastern"/Greek+Slavic; while Leibniz figured there were two families in the region, "Northern" and "Southern" (Slavic languages were shortchanged once again), and noticed that Hebrew was related to Arabic, but not European languages like Latin and Greek. Between the two of them, Joseph Justus Scaliger, a French Calvinist from the second half of the 16th century, rejected a claim from before his time that Hebrew was the 'original' language from which all others spawned, and grouped European languages into four families based on the word for 'God' (Deus, Theos, Godt, Boge).
NB to any mods: I'm sorry if you saw a comment from me before — I hit save without realizing, and had to quickly delete it.
The incredibly short answer is: yes! However, this isn't a very useful answer, not to mention an inappropriate one for the subreddit. I don't know much about Bopp and Edward Said, so I can't say anything on the specific example you gave, but I can talk more generally about the history of analysis of languages.