To be honest, the Han government was able to crush the power of local landholders once. But this statement can only apply in the early and mid times of the Western Han Dynasty. In the last decades of the Western Han, the government already lost the ability to fully control the local powers. From the Western Han Dynasty to the Jin Dynasty, there were 2 parallel trends. The power decline of the central government and the rise of landlords and finally led the Jin emperors became the weakest throughout Chinese history. Besides, the power base and nature of the Jin Dynasty was very different from the Han Dynasty. All these factors caused Jin's emperor could not handle the landholders just like Han's emperor did.
The latter Han empire had the misfortune of most rulers came to power as a child which meant a regency. If the Emperor survived to adulthood, the regent and/or the Dowager wasn't always willing to hand over power, this sometimes led to the Emperor gathering up what supporters he could and overthrowing the regent. The Emperor then would rule a short time, die without an heir (usually, at best a child heir) and so regency begins anew. Add dealing with various wars or issues of the day, Emperor's didn't have the time or the personal authority to rebuild the tax system (that was no longer providing enough money by the 140's) while they struggled to deal with the increasing violence from powerful families with their retainers engaged in vendetta's or a recruitment system that was in the hands of the powerful. Measures taken to deal with such matters would arouse protest and Emperor's would try to win support or at least maintain a balance with the powerful families.
By the end, Emperor Huan and Emperor Ling both used the eunuchs (who had repeatedly come to Emperor's aids against the regents whereas gentry had been implicated in the regicidal regime of Liang Ji) to act as a counter-balance at the capital and in the provinces via their own retainers and families. This went down badly with the gentry who saw them as unnatural beings who should never be given power and disliked the challenges to their powerbases. This worsened tensions with some bloody reprisals from both sides while the ill-suited Emperor Ling drove the long declining Han into the ground.