That's basically Israel, extremely simplified, and most likely a wrong analogy, but you get the jist.
1- A lot of "Middle Easterners' have the mindset of Jews = Israelis (my point here is they don't know the difference.).
And Majority of Egyptian are educated in the sense that they graduated from college, I have Syrian, Palestinian Saudis within my family members and friends and majority of them wouldn't say anything about Jews but Zionism and Israel as state.
While a lot of Middle Eastern have the mindset of Jews = Israeli, majority of educated Arabs that I met and within my family just despise Israel as a State and government not Jews.
If your Israeli and in an Arab country u shouldn’t admit it you can say your Jewish and they are still very hospitable and nice the anti semetismnis pretty common tho but not as common as just despising israel and Zionism in general.
We don't hate Jews we hate Israel= proceeds to ethnically cleanese all Jews from Arab countries and giving legitimation to Israels existence as a safe haven for Jews.
Not everyone there is anti semetic but the vast majority are galvanized against Israel bc Palestinians are seen as Arabs and Israelis are “killing our brothers” .
I didn't invalidate his experience as an Iraqi, I can see a lot of Iraqi feeling hate toward the west and falling for the usual conservative conspiracies that "Jews are behind it all".
But mate Iraq is not the totality of Arabs or Muslims, so 100% him being iraqi doesn't mean anything in the vastness of Muslim population let alone Arabs (that is not all muslims).
It is fair if he is speaking about Arabs and Muslims as whole, he didn't specify Iraqis if that was the case I would've not commented instead he said "Reality is most Arabs" which is unfair categorization.
And if you wish to bring something to the table, maybe to fight the antisemitism among Arabs then why not focus focal point (Education) which you seem to agree with rather than Arabs as race(leading to racism) or Muslims as religion(leading to Islamophobia) being the reason.
Please ask yourself why are you commenting in the first place because my purpose here is I've seen enough racism toward Arabs and I and my family, friends (majority of them) love Jews and I'm tired of the hate. So what are YOU gaining from trying to validate him I wonder? why do you want Arabs to look so bad especially when you seem to understand that education is a solution to most things.
It is worse than meaningless, it directly attack my people and why did he choose to type "Muslims" there is plenty of Arabs that are not muslim.
And this has NOTHING to do with Muslims, literally Christians are as passionate about Palestine as Muslims here.