Going through Napoleon's Marshals by David Chandler et al. While the majority of the focus is on their military careers, the bits that deal with their family lives are rather more affective to me right now. One can't help the smile when reading of the 'exceptionally loving' marriage of François Lefebvre and Catherine Hübscher, or find relief in Jean Lannes' second marriage, which was a much better one than his first one (which ended in divorce on grounds of infidelity).
Unrelated to the above, one does find it odd sometimes what my characters say. In adapting , one of them's just said, rendering what's actually being said in not!Japanese, "Perhaps Honoured Sir wishes to wait for the weather to subside?".
P.S. I've asked mostly about the Eurasian steppe and its influence on Europe, the Middle East, Central Asia and China, but I appreciate that there are pockets in the Sahel and in Arabia that are just as influential.
I have a question that I think is too wide reaching for a regular Q, but I can't get it out of my mind so dropping it here in hope of an answer:
Is there a population factor in the steppe that caused over-crowding and mass movement? Is the answer simply military strenh - that sedantry groups had no good answers to the mobility of a people all on horseback? Or is there a historiographic answer here too (that it's only the most successful tribes that get written about and recorded?).
What a fantastic answer, thank you. Do you feel then that the idea that steppe pastoralists kinda came out of nowhere to conquer (I believe that the Assyrians just referred to the area where the Medes and Persians came from as 'somewhere else' or something), is a creation after the fact by the civilisation targeted? I suppose most pastoralist migration/invasion weren't actually civilisation ending in the way that, say, the Mongols were.
In general I'd also say that they weren't civilization ending - even the Mongols, who tended to adopt a lot from the sedentary peoples they conquered, including employing lots locals in their military and government. For all of the latter's destructive conquests, their bloodiest wars tended to be ironically against places like Khwarezm that had a long history of interacting with/employing steppe peoples, or states like the Tanguts or Jin that actually themselves had steppe roots.
I guess I could also say something about Ibn Khaldun and his theory of sedentary dynasties being weakened by moral decay caused by material wealth, to be replaced by new barbarians, who then repeat the cycle, but it's not like that's really a standard-accepted theory nowadays. The grain of truth there is probably that steppe peoples in particular did look up to sedentary societies as places that they admired for wealth and culture.
I think part of the deal with steppe peoples being influential in world history that, to be honest, those peoples and their sedentary neighbors had really strong influences on each other.
So I guess overall I think a big factor tends to be that these steppe peoples had horse-based cultures that had both certain values (and certain negatives) associated with them by writers in neighboring sedentary societies. It's almost more an accident of geography that the Eurasian steppe basically borders, well, pretty much every major region of Eurasian sedentary societies, so they would get written about a lot (in contrast, we have very little left in those peoples' own words).