India is keen to boost trade in this way, said the source, as it tries to narrow a ballooning trade deficit with Russia. Some companies have expressed concern, however, about potentially falling foul of Western sanctions.
"There is a hesitancy among exporters ... particularly on sanctioned items," said Ajay Sahai, director general of the Federation of Indian Export Organisations (FIEO), a body supported by India's commerce ministry.
A source in Russia's car sales industry said the trade ministry had sent a list of car parts needed to corresponding ministries and state agencies in other countries, including India.
An industry source in Moscow, who declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the issue, said Russia's Ministry of Industry and Trade asked large companies to supply lists of raw materials and equipment they needed.
NEW DELHI, Nov 29 (Reuters) - Moscow has sent India a list of more than 500 products for potential delivery including parts for cars, aircraft and trains, four sources familiar with the matter said, as sanctions squeeze Russia's ability to keep vital industries running.
In the full article its said that indian prime-minister wants to have bigger export to Russia and indian companies are already prepared to do this order, but they are hesitant only cause of sanctions.
But some Indian companies are reluctant to export to Russia over fears of being sanctioned by the West, the lack of clarity over payments and challenges to securing insurance.
Still as it considers the request India should think carefully about it and consider if it would be seen as breaking sanctions and taking sides for Russia in a way that makes doing this bad for business with Ukraine's allies.
If India starts to directly support Russia's war machine against Ukraine, then India will suffer sanctions from the West and live with bad blood for decades.
Prefering russian failed state and distancing themselves from the entire West is a gigantic mistake, that is going to bite India in the ass in the long run.