These questions matter because if you have a lease, you have more protection. Even if you are month to month, you still are protected from an illegal eviction.
I don't know if appliances such as a washer and dryer are considered necessities. Many people live with going to the laundromat. Were use of these appliances part of the lease.
I'm wondering how she was able to remove the appliances though. Most states require that a landlord can't enter a rented unit unless it's an emergency (major water leak, stove leaking gas, someone is incapable due to an accident, fire, etc). So, did she give 24 hour notice that she was coming in? And did she tell you, verbally or written, that she was removing those appliances?
Anything that you have written down, anything that she has sent by email or "snail" mail, keep. Don't let anything get thrown away, nothing that you or she has communicated. If you remember anything verbal, write it down, date, time, and that it's verbal, not written. Get your lease (you should ALWAYS get a lease for any rented items or property), and review it carefully.
But seriously, people can give you more proper advice, if you answer the location and lease question. So please get back to us about that.
Yes. State security deposit laws do not apply to owner-occupied buildings with three or fewer units unless the tenant gives 30 days' written notice to the landlord of the tenant's wish to invoke the law.
Basically - if you do not have a lease agreement you’re likely on a month to month and your landlord needs to give you written notice to vacate - I believe it needs to be 30 days notice most places.
May I ask why you aren't updating your post by providing your location (state and town is good enough), as well as what type of lease you are under (month to month or longer). Everyone is trying to provide you with useful information, but you need to help us help you. Many states will not let a landlord remove standard appliances (stove, refrigerator, dishwasher, washer/dryer, etc), because they are implied to be part of a rental.