His service in the Revolutionary War would be similarly lackluster from a win-loss perspective but he had a crucial trait, a command presence, that allowed him to do what almost no one else in the colonies could have done - unite a disparate group of raag colonial militias into a relatively unified fighting force that could survive (although not win) direct confrontations with the world's preeminent military power. His power had political consequences but his mere presence was often enough to prevent defeats from turning into disasters. His primary goal early in the war was the preservation of the army at all costs until it could be armed, equipped, and trained into an actual counter to the British regulars and their Hessian hirelings. He also seems to have won when it mattered most - Boston, when the nascent revolution would have been strangled in its cradle if he'd lost, Trenton and Princeton, when the army was on its heels and could have been destroyed under a lesser commander.
It's hard to overstate the full amount of means the French, Spanish, and Dutch supplied. The French realized they needed to modernize their army to confront the British, something they had every intention of doing. This meant they would have a lot of military surplus as they re-equipped modern formations with modern weapons. The French king and his cousin, the king of Spain, created a shell corporation run by the guy who invented Figaro, the Barber of Seville, and fronted him 2 million francs in secret. They then sold the antiquated contents of their armories on the open market, where it was promptly bought up by their shell company and shipped to America on credit. The first major shipments arrived just before the battle of Saratoga and equipped an American army in full retreat to the point where they turned around, confronted Burgoyne's army, and won. In John Trumbull's famous painting of the surrender, a French cannon is pictured prominently in the foreground. By the end of the war, the French would supply 90% of the gunpowder the American army used as well as similar quantities of tents, uniforms, muskets, ammunition, and other supplies. Perhaps more importantly, the French shell company found military experts from across Europe and recruited them to the American cause including names like Lafayette and von Steuben. French money paid their salaries and passage to the country, where they helped build forts, command artillery, and forge the American army into a fighting force that could confront the regular British Army.
Additionally, by the time of French entry into the war, the rebels had waged war for two years against the most powerful forces Britain would ever deploy to the theatre. They had driven one British army out of Boston using green militia and fought a creditable (though badly flawed) defensive campaign in and around New York against the largest and best equipped army Britain ever employed. After Saratoga, and especially after the French, Spanish and Dutch came in, British troop strenh was substantially reduced, with thousands of men drawn off to defend British colonial possessions in the West Indies. The rebels did this largely with pre-war militia stocks of cannon, muskets, and powder and on those arms they were able to capture from the British. Far from being a few plucky backwoodsmen with civilian arms, the militias, especially those of New England, were reasonably well organized and equipped, though obviously not to the same degree as the British.
colonial militias maintaining publicly owned arms seems kind of relevant to today's debates about well-regulated militias. Are there some sources for that we could read? Sounds fascinating.