The sword definitely had the close association with honor and the idea of what a gentleman was, but it was such a gradual process that you don't see any particular point where people put their foot down, and in any case, it was mostly accepted as a good thing and a necessary adaptation for the institution of the duel to survive. A few things are worth noting though.
This is fascinating to hear. In HEMA it's a really big issue people are trying to address, "double kills" are extremely common. to hear they were so rare in real duels is very interesting.
If the duel does happen, the Seconds arrange the meeting place, the time, discuss the choice of weapons, and so on. If it is pistols, they would handle the loading of the weapons, measuring distance, giving the commands, etc. With a pistol duel, they would both be armed, and in theory empowered to shoot down the opposing duelist if they egregiously transgressed the agreed upon terms, such as by firing before the command. At certain periods in time, as I discuss they would involve themselves in the combat as well, joining in to fight each other for the mere honor of it, but this wasn't in vogue everywhere, nor for the entire period of the duel.
Since I study Fiore armizarre swordfighting, how did duelling go from large arranged events that were officially held and sanctioned to the 18th and 19th century illegal duel held at the break of dawn?
Probably not, although it is hard to always find reliable numbers, especially for sword duels prior to the 19th century, which is the period where they were considerably more deadly. If we look to the 19th century, where dueling with swords was still common in several countries including France and Italy, we have excellent statistical accounting thanks to several intrepid chroniclers of the period, but deaths were exceedingly rare, in the realm of 1 percent, and I can't think off hand of any in which both participants were killed.
But by the 19th century, in France and Italy where the sword duel continued, at a glance they didn't look all that different from a fencing match, with a neutral referee in the middle to stop the action when an injury occurred, or even if a blade touched the ground, an occasion which required disinfecting it. which might interest you as it traces what a fairly typical duel might look like, but the key take away here is that although first blood was important, it wasn't the guaranteed end of the duel. Rather when first blood was drawn, that might end the duel, as the challenger now had the opportunity to declare himself satisfied, and many did do so at this point, but it wasn't required in most cases.
The irony is that while it allowed the duel to survive for a time it would in the end be the death of it, since the pistol duel couldn't adapt in the way that the duel with a sword could. Deaths continued, mostly by chance, right up until the end of the institution in England in the 1840s at which point public opinion had turned against it, but in France, which never really embraced the pistol fully and instead continued with the sword, the duel continued, and would actually reach its apogee in the late 19th century. Although fictionalized for April Fools a few years ago, , but in sum through the 19th century the duel in France morphed into a performative piece of masculine theater, where two men would go out, cross swords, get a few scratches on their forearms and boast about how they had faced death bravely to acclaim of their political compatriots. The key factor of course is that especially given the way the pistol duel was constructed, much was left to chance, while with a sword, a good swordsman can kill his opponent, but is quite in control to ensure only minimal damage too, and this is reflected in the style of the 19th century France - and Italy too - where minor injury was common, and death almost entirely unheard of outside of a few very serious duels.
There is debate as to whether the pistol duel made it safer, as different methodologies have resulted in different calculations of fatalities and injury (I take the side that it did reduce fatalities, but that is neither here nor there), but there is no debate that it made the contest more equal, with a number of rules and norms arising that intended to reduce the impact of skill as much as possible, and certainly the end result was more duels in which both participants were more liable to be jointly injured.
So there are several examples, but I would again caution that they don't quite reflect a trend, and I'd also note too that the decline of the sword duel was in large part driven by the unequal contest that it created, and the perception that the winner of such a duel was too often predetermined. Not to say that duelists of equal skill did not face off, or that a lessor swordsman couldn't get in a lucky blow, but it is to say that the general view of duels was that both men dying was far from likely, outside of a true contest of equals. An anonymous Army captain, writing a guide for duelists in the late 18th century noted this as he commented favorably on the transition to the pistol as the dueling weapon of choice, since while a balanced contest could mean to very injured men, it was also a great rarity:
I'd also briefly note Germany, where an entirely different tradition developed in the 19th century, where sword duels were seen as juvenile and for minor offenses at best - largely due to the institution of academic fencing practiced by young men at university - and the pistol duel the proper way to show courage. But unlike in Britain where the norms were designed to ensure random chance and equality, Germans had a much higher fatality rate with their duels, allowing for longer periods of time to aim, and rifled barrels being quite common. Facing death was key, and they took fairly seriously the need to ensure you really were doing so.