NAL, NiWS. As far as the less you have to deal with a call to CPS will get your sisters taken care of but what happens to them will be outside yours and your family's control.
Note: it is likely that there will be certain requirements imposed by CPS if your sisters are removed by CPS for where they can live, when and how your mother can interact with them, and what the conditions are under which your mother can take your sisters back into her custody. If those conditions are violated or not met (e.g., if you or your grandparents allow your mother to visit your sisters unsupervised), CPS can take action to remove them from that placement. I take it from your post that this isn't a concern at this point, but if you're concerned that this will be an ongoing safety issue for your sisters, you or your grandparents may want to consult with a family lawyer (specializing in guardianships) to explore other options to remove your sisters from your mother's care long term.
My information may be a bit dated, since I only worked in youth and child advocacy law when I was in law school (in Washinon state), but my understanding is that Washinon state prefers to place minors who are removed by CPS with family if at all possible. If you and your grandparents are willing and able to take your sisters, CPS will very likely place them with you and your grandparents rather than in foster care.
If you do not want your sisters in foster care, depending on the age they are, they can make the decision themselves to go stay with their grandparents. If they refuse to go back home they can make the claim of abuse/neglect as opposed to reporting. It will eventually involve CPS but if they are not in the home at the time then most likely they will not be put in temporary custody. Foster care has many flaws, and in a more liberal state like Washinon they may seek to keep the girls stay with family as opposed to removing them from the home. If they are already established elsewhere and claiming they want to be there, as teenagers, Child Protection\Family Court will listen to their wishes. Your grandparents can also sue their parents for custody. They should get a lawyer and discuss their options as that is free advice, check your states legal aid hotline.