The way that this question is framed reveals something interesting about the popular understanding not only of British history, but about ideas surrounding political theory more generally. In many circles, even academic circles, "British" has come to be synonymous with "English" since at least the nineteenth century, when the lesser partners of the British Union were relegated to unimportance by the focus on the grand narrative of English progress. These attitudes have continued on into the twenty-first century; Scottish history (let alone Welsh history) has been deeply marginalized by the academic establishment to the point where many academic presses won't publish titles in Scottish history because they view them as too "niche". Thus, the books that are available for the reading public to consume are invariably focused on English history that has just been marketed as "British" to sound more inclusive. What this means is that curious history lovers will ask questions about the "English Enlightenment", when in reality, England contributed very little to Enlightenment debates. Instead, it was primarily French and Scottish writers who shaped the discourses that would later incite political revolution across Europe and North America.
The entanglement that you mention here did certainly occur, and indeed, Scottish political thought was influenced greatly by both English and European discourses throughout the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. I'm not arguing that there's no relationship between Scottish history and English history, or Scottish political thought and English political thought. My point above is purely an observation of the fact there is very little that approaches "British" history from a Scottish perspective in the current historiography while there is a lot to be found that either adopts an English perspective when talking about Scotland or ignores Scotland altogether, yet calls itself "British" history. This is a criticism of academic publishers, not a denial that English and Scottish history shares connections and has influenced one another.
While this point is certainly true to a large extent, I also think its worth being aware that the early modern period is one where English and Scottish political and religious discourse is becoming entangled. I don't think its necessarily true to speak of a 'British' political culture in this period, but neither can English and Scottish political ideas be thought of it a vacuum.
This leads us to the next misconception that is often tied to political theory of the early modern period. While the eighteenth-century Enlightenment certainly did have an impact upon the eruption of the American War for Independence and the French Revolution, early modern political theory was not inherently oppositional or combative to the reigning establishment.
As I am a scholar of early modern Britain (Scotland, but also England), I have not addressed the rise of political theorizing and debate in France, which was, arguably, the primary seat of the Enlightenment in the eighteenth century, because I don't know enough about the unique circumstances in France to tackle the subject in a meaningful way. I hope, though, that a member of this community, flair or otherwise, will be able to weigh in and add insight on France to the discussion.