Yes but it wasn't very easy. In 1872, the Meiji government passed the Firearms Control Law (銃砲取締規則). Under these regulations, only licensed gun merchants were allowed to sell firearms, and had to keep a strict log of who they had sold these weapons to. Ex-military officers were allowed possession of their old firearms, but they would be specially marked and stamped as well as strictly recorded. It was a crime to lose a firearm without reporting its loss. Essentially only hunters could really purchase firearms.
A notable aspect of firearms access during the Meiji era was the practice of renting guns to farmers and hunters that needed them. Private ownership was significantly restricted during Meiji, though there were still mechanisms available for a citizen to have access to a firearm for approved purposes. In most cases this meant a hunter or farmer would rent a gun from an authorized dealer for a period of time (usually an annual renewal) in order to hunt game or manage pests. They would also be required to provide records of the game which was killed with the gun to justify the rental. Overall, however, having a gun as a private citizen was very rare and highly controlled. Even former Samurai were forced to surrender their firearms as part of the Meiji sword hunts, as the government saw guns as being under the sole purvue of the military and the government.
There was certainly a relationship between the sword bans and the restrictions on firearms. Guns have always been a weapon of war foremost in Japan, and any use for hunting or even self-defence is a secondary consideration in the Japanese context. Placing restrictions on firearms served the same purpose as the restrictions on sword ownership, in that it lessened the availability of weapons by the peasantry and by disaffected Samurai alike, and further enforced the monopoly on violence held by the Shogunate (and by extension the Fudai Daimyo, those that supported Tokugawa during the civil war). Peasant revolts were a significant concern during the first sword hunts after the consolidation of Tokugawa power, as they had defined much if the period prior to the civil war (for example the Ikko-Ikki in the late 1400s). The Meiji era sword hunts served the same purpose to suppress dissent. The Imperialist faction that had won that civil war had gained its foothold though the use of privately armed samurai insurgents. They were well aware of the dangers an armed populace posed to them during as tense a period as the reopening. Restrictions on the possession of weapons were an important extension of the more broad, national powers the new Japanese government now exercised.
Historically, guns have been an extremely disruptive factor in the political conflicts of Japan right from their introduction during the 15th century. The Tokugawa shogunate introduced restrictions on firearms very rapidly after the closing of the country (Sakoku itself I have seen interpreted as, in part, a response to foreign arms sales to Daimyo and the potential threat of a well armed Tozama clans like the Satsuma). Letters from field commanders during the invasion of Korea in the 1590s place a strong emphasis on Samurai being sent to the front lines to arrive with at minimum 3 rifles, and an acknowledgement that firearms would be and should be the primary weapon of war for the Samurai going forward. (If you are interested in this subject, I highly recommend looking into "Houjutsu", the traditional Samurai firearms martial arts.) This is all to say that unlike other places in the world (such as the USA), firearms have always been a restricted object by the government and seen as too dangerous for regular citizens (or peasants) to have without controls.
To speak to your second question, the was a transition for many samurai into the new armed forces, so there was likely some leeway given. I'd have to look into specific laws or military procedures, but I don't know at the moment.
EDIT: Also, to add some social context to these restrictions, in the period around the Sengoku civil war peasant revolts were a serious issue in many regions of the country, and restrictions on weapons in general were seen as a way to limit the ability for peasants to revolt against their lords. Firearms exacerbate the danger peasant armies pose to the Samurai, and this mindset is clear in the restrictions that would be enacted going forward.