As it happened, Ogedai's widow ruled precariously as regent for five years before Ogedai's son Guyuk was ultimately elected and came to power. During this time Batu was unable to campaign in the West, as this would have left him open to an attack from his rivals, and resulted in him being unable to influence political events. When Guyuk came to the throne things were particularly unstable, as he and Batu had an intense rivalry, and there was almost open war between them. It was likely only Guyuk's death in 1248 that prevented outright civil war across the entirety of the Mongol Empire.
1. Supposedly the summons to the Kuriltai weren't sent out until the following year. Even assuming this is true, it's not any sort of proof that news of Ogedai's death didn't reach Batu within three months or so. For one, Pow doesn't seem to consider that he's basing that date on the same sources he condemns as unreliable, and is frankly overly credulous of them. Secondly, the fact that the Kuriltai wasn't formally convened until a year later didn't at all challenge the immediate political urgency of heading eastwards, particularly since it was very uncertain when a new Great Khan would be chosen, all the while leaving Batu blind and vulnerable to the machinations of his rivals. Even if the kuriltai wasn't formally convened until a year later, it would still have been absolutely necessary for him to withdraw as soon as possible. Indeed, from 1242 onwards, there was the constant threat of war with Guyuk to contend with. Pow is frankly naive and ignorant not to recognise this, and to disregard all political dimensions outside explicitly formal ones.
When you say political motivations "may" have played a role in their withdrawal, I think you're greatly understating things. To add to your answer, the death of Ogedai Khan in December 1241 left an enormous power vacuum at the heart of the Mongol Empire, as different khans moved to present their claims to the throne in the "kurultai", a grand council where the new Great Khan would be elected.
Thereafter, the outbreak of civil war in the 1260s between Berke Khan and Hulegu Khan, prompted by the former's conversion to Islam, and the latter's sack of Baghdad and conquest of the Abbasid Caliphate, signalled the end of Mongol unity. In turn this meant that major campaigns on the scale necessary to subjugate Europe were not really practical. This was partly due to the limited resources and manpower available to the Golden Horde without support from the rest of the Mongol Empire, and also because mounting such a campaign capable of subjugating Europe would have left them critically vulnerable to attack from other Mongols, with whom they were no longer closely aligned.
It's no wonder than the Mongols rarely managed to physically assault and capture a major Chinese city of this scale, but what can't be forgotten is that they were capable of taking smaller fortifications. As the disastrous 1258-1259, the Mongols had the means and the will power to systematically reduce well sited, well stocked fortifications even when disease, weather and supply difficulties resulted in heavy casualties. They proved this in Korea as well, launching invasion after invasion, slowly wearing the country down until it finally surrendered.