Not just Hill. He was constantly talking about pornography, sex, and other work inappropriate topics throughout his career. Women of course, to make them uncomfortable and exude "power," but men in his various offices have often admitted that he was a fucking weirdo. The guy would literally roll in on a Monday and over coffee and bagels casually mention, "I saw this movie where a woman was fucked by a dog over the weekend. Wild, right?".
That's what would happen. The right-wing on the SCOTUS have no interest in lessening their power and there is no mechanism that would keep Thomas off the bench.
Imagine if they tried this and it went all the way to the SCOTUS, Thomas didn't recuse himself, and successfully got the court to drop the subpoena.
In the extremely likely event C. Thomas was involved and there is clear evidence, he should be impeached and criminally tried as well.
There is a good case for ignoring the Supreme Court. Admittedly for unjustifiable reasons, Andrew Jackson ignored the Court. What can the Court do if the other branches ignore it? The Supreme Court cannot enforce anything and only has legitimacy from a perception of being fair-minded in its Judgements. The Democrats only have something to lose if it somehow hurts them in elections. Very few Republicans will likely ignore Supreme Court rulings because they don’t want to hurt their political weapon. If the Democrats are not willing to add Judges (say having 20-40 Judges added over time who rotate so it’s doesn’t remain the kangaroo court it now is), they have little to lose by making a case that the Court has undermined its own legitimacy. Unless the Court is changed in its size, it will be a nakedly partisan branch of government for at least the next few decades.
The current Supreme Court cannot be taken seriously. It’s members stopped vote counting in Bush v. Gore and one member’s wife sought to play a role in denying the election results. Thomas refused to recuse him from cases in which his own wife was involved.
His wife, Ginni, should be put on trial. She should get a fair trial, but if the courts insist on using their position as a will to power then she should get the same shitshow kangaroo trial Ed Snowden would get if he came back. Whereas Snowden (or Assange) would be tried in a three letter agency district in Northern Virginia with the ruling predetermined, G. Thomas should be tried in a district with little to no MAGA support, a hostile rubber stamp district with little support leading to a supermax.