I did not ask the question but I am very grateful for your answer. It is interesting to analyze how the anachronistic views of democracy have come to influence our understanding and idealizations of this way of government.
Obviously views and definitions have evolved since then, but that is probably as good as any starting point for the deficiencies of democracies.
There's a distinction to be made here that does not really translate well into modern conceptions of political structures and forms of government. We tend to see a sharp dividing line between autocracy and representational government. The historical reality is more nuanced than that. In feudal kingship sovereignty, legitimacy, and power are entirely derived from the aristocracy and church. Who had the right to rule would be determined by who had the most legitimate hereditary claim to the throne and who could muster the most support from other hereditary nobles. Popular consent was nearly absent from the equation.
What can we make of the widespread acquiescence? Well, the revolutionaries had killed the King, and we really only see the Vendée in insurrection against this. As mentioned above the federalist insurrections were in support of the aims of the Girondins, not upset about the King. Therefore it does seem that the people, on whole, were amenable to the dissolution of the monarchy. However I think the important caveat here is that this should not be translated into a full-scale support of a republic. In Robert Darnton's Forbidden Best-Sellers of Pre-Revolutionary France he shows that, via channels of public opinion (literature, gossip, journals, etc.) the Bourbon monarchy had gradually (until 1750, then picking up steam) become de-legitimized in the eyes of the people, and most especially that the King himself (Louis XV and then XVI) had become de-sacralized to many. There could (and should) be entire books written about this subject, and it's definitely one I'll be looking into more due to these amazing questions, but what I postulate here is that the people, while not becoming fervent converts to republicanism, had lost their faith in their Bourbon kings specifically. There are many supporting factors for this (Louis XV had famously stopped taking communion due to being denied it thanks to his public parading of mistresses) and I think it helps explain the sphere the people (of course "the people" is a massive, non-cohesive body, so this is a generalization) existed in. I would term this sphere one of indeterminacy: their traditional institutions had been obliterated -- the traditional church was gone, the king and all his institutions were gone -- and they had a bevy of new institutions to take their place (Hunt's book does a great job of outlining these such institutions). The people had varying levels of enthusiasm for these new institutions. Leaving aside the Vendée, we could start this scale at "Mildly Hostile" and go through "Fervent Supporter". I think we could postulate this public opinion scale looked like a bell curve, which most sitting just to the left of center, where they were not republicans per-se, but were willing to participate in the new institutions and to see what this new governmental experiement meant for them.