Could you please talk more about the source you're quoting? Is this your translation? I'd love to get answers to my questions about funeral practices from the body text of the OP if you can.
There is an inline citation for the <<Announcements of Pan'geng>> but the numbering scheme is unfamiliar to me. Was it also translated by James Legge?
There is a translation by Legge, available . (The quote in question is under Pan Geng II.) There are more recent English translations for most of these classical texts, but I don't know much about them.
I'm quoting the Legge translation of the Zuozhuan with modernized transliterations, which can be found online . The other commenter talked more about the Zuozhuan in his post. It does contain scattered information on funeral rites, although as a warning it probably won't be easy digging through 200 years' worth of commentaries on annals to find what you're looking for yourself. Other primary sources would be Rites of Zhou and Confucius's works ( parts of the Liji but I'm sure there's more.).
Thanks for pointing this out. You are correct, Zuozhuan did briefly mention Zixu's death under 11th year of Duke Ai, albeit nothing about "throwing the body down down the river" part, which is the focus of op's question.
Finally, Zhanguo Ce presents us with this familiar “thrown into the river story arc, roughly two hundred years after Wu Zixu’s death. This also constitutes the closest “contemporaneous” historical record of the event. Interestingly, unlike later historical accounts including the one from Shiji, which tended to narrativize this event with a moral frame of faulting King Fuchai as a foolish and obstinate lord who unjustly murdered his most loyal and virtuous advisor. This moral framing is further completed by the eventual suicide of King Fuchai upon being defeated by the State of Yue, which reaffirms the classical Confucian belief that the “long moral arc” of history always bends towards justice. In this pre-Shiji account of the same event, Zhanguo Ce narrativized this same event under a different moral lens, essentially blaming both King Fuchai and Wu Zixu for being headstrong and failing to adapt to and accommodate their counterpart.
Another pre-Shiqi record explicitly mentions the “river” episode of Wu Zixu’s death is Zhanguo Ce or Strategies of the Warring States, a collection of writings on warfare and statecraft from (most likely) the late Warring States period. Specifically, the account is found in these lines from Yan Ce II of Zhanguo Ce, and my line by line rough translation: