The underlying question here, of course, is: what does it mean to be rational? U.S. policy regarding Japan in the lead up to the attack on Pearl Harbor was fundamentally based on several of assumptions about what Japan would "rationally" do, and that U.S. economic pressure would lead to "rational" leadership retaking control, with whom a settlement can be reached, as the Japanese had to have known that they rationally had no way of defeating the United States in a war. Of course, that policy proved to be quite misguided, as--for whatever reason--Japan did decide it would take the risk of war with the U.S. In many ways, the so-called rational actor model has a charm to it. It is easy to envision states as though they are individuals on a macro scale, playing a cool collected game of international politics, with every move and counter move calculated to provide maximum value to themselves. Yet, as Graham Allison illustrated in his work on institutional decision making, Essence of Decision: Explaining the Cuban Missile Crisis, assuming that states follow a rational pattern can be a false light, allowing our own implicit biases and preconceptions of what it means to be "rational" color our interpretation of events. With Imperial Japan, this is especially vital. Imperial Japanese decision making was complex, and the language barrier has proven very high, enabling obscuring much of what was going on in Tokyo from the popular consciousness. Quite tellingly, Imperial Japan did not really have the same kind individual "leader" who captures the imagination. There was no Hitler or Stalin whose very word was law, as--while theoretically the Emperor held supreme authority--the Shōwa Emperor was not one to assert himself in government affairs, though that is a matter of some controversy. Thus, it is harder to capture an understanding of what exactly was going on in Japanese decision making circles on the road to war.
The IJA was infamous for its tendencies to place its own interest above those of the state, with field officers often deciding policy for themselves and acting upon it, confident that they would face little repercussions if they did so. For more on this, please refer to my above linked post on insubordination in the Japanese military. Suffice it to say, the Army was quite keen on deciding policy for itself almost independently of what either the general staff or civilian government in Tokyo had in mind. The lack of any kind of unified body at the uppermost levels of decision making meant that, when it came to planning for war, the IJA and the IJN were each drafting their own plans independently of each other, with the Imperial Defence Policy of 1907, and revised in 1923 was little more than two separate plans for operations scale combat, with no integration of how the IJA and IJN would collaborate, much less any true grand strategy that would have harnessed those operations to a national plan for the employment of Japan's resources. Indeed, the IJA and IJN both sought to actively exclude the civilian government from war planning. Even the 1936 "Outline of National Policy" document did little to craft strategic plans, and retained purely a purely operational focus. While the IJA and IJN had drafted plans on how they would expel the European powers from Asia and defeat the American fleet, there was no plan for how these operational victories would be transformed into strategic ones, and allow the war to be brought to a close.
I've written previously on plans by "total-war" officers within the Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) to turn Japan and her empire into an autarkic state as well as the general issues of insubordination within the Imperial Japanese military and more specifically on the Kwantung Army's operations at Nomonhan . I've also discussed the state of Japan's resources in the immediate lead up to December 7, 1941 . Most of what follows will be adapted from these comments, but I highly recommend you review them, along with /u/StarWarsNerd222's excellent summation on Interwar Japanese Politics for greater context on what the political situation was within Imperial Japan in the 1930s that laid the ground work for Japan's decision to go to war.
Do you have any recommendations for reading on the Japanese Strategic decision-making in WW2? Looking for reading on the grand strategy decision making particularly in the 43-45 era. Thank you.