Historians have been trying to answer that question for 200 years. I think an interesting way to answer your question would be to take a quick run through the major developments in the historiography of the French Revolution so we can see how the answers to your question changed over time. It’s important to note that most of the following history (at least most from the late 19th century onwards) is based on solid historical evidence, not just a whimsical interpretation. Most of these ideas are based on a massive amount of research, which the author would use to answer the classic question, “what’s the deal with the French Revolution?” When historians say, “no, you’re wrong,” they don’t just do it by sticking their tongue out. Major changes in the historiography are backed up by a lot of quality research that supports their new point.
As we get closer and closer to the present, historians become more and more reluctant to even try to answer your question. They feel that the question itself is too big to be answered by a single overarching grand theory, and that any answer that tries to explain everything will end up being too subjective to be a useful way of thinking about the French Revolution. François Furet wrote not only rebuttals to the Marxist approach, but also on why this kind of overly-big picture thinking is a silly way to go about history in the first place. Recent historians have tried to avoid the greater debate entirely, focusing more on smaller events and why they happened instead of trying to put the entire revolution into an ideological box. Timothy Tackett has written on the psychology and paranoia of the Committee of Public safety, and Lynn Hunt has written extensively on the role of women and the history of feminism during the revolution. Others avoid the debate like the plague by writing longer general histories that stick closely to the “what” and stay away from the bigger “whys.” William Doyle has tried to take this approach. Others still would rather look at the French Revolution from the trendy and fashionable Global History perspective, and focus on how the French Revolution was influenced by other world events and trans-national trends, and how in turn the French Revolution influenced more than just France and Europe.
What is the difference between political revolution vs class struggle revolution espoused by Marxists in the context of 18th century France? Seems like one and the same.