But: I will say a few things that should be taken as caveats. One is that "percentage of Muslim population by country" is not necessarily the best way to determine where the world's Muslims live, and using national borders on a map can give undue emphasis on sparsely-populated countries. For instance, Niger will look like a huge Muslim country, when in fact it has some 15 million people, which is relatively small, all things considered. Indeed, if you look at a map of the world's Muslims , you will see that something like half of the world's Muslims live east of the Indus, in relatively wet, fertile regions. Indonesia is less of an exception, as Bangladesh, India and Pakistan have huge Muslim populations, and even a country like China has more Muslims than Syria does (or did before the war). Even in those heavily-Muslim countries in the Middle East, the population (Muslim and non-Muslim) is in fertile areas.
This is very interesting, why is it that Islam thrives or thrived in areas where arable land was not equally distributed? Is it due to a quality particular to Islam amongst all other potentially competing religious orders?
It does also go on to argue that trade routes (and not armies) were the primary vehicles of the spread of Islam.
Why would Islam spread so well in a place like Indonesia, so far from Arabia, instead of other religions? If the distribution of arable land has something to do with it, I can't quite surmise why, and I'd be curious to know what the connection is. What about Islam makes it more successful in such places compared to other religoins? Or why don't other religions in competition with Islam find uneven distribution of arable land to be quite such a boon?
However, there were other Muslim empires and other ethnicities that were Muslim. To take a salient example, the Arabs were never able to make inroads into Anatolia or the more mountainous northern regions. The Ottomans, in contrast, were much better at dealing with mountainous terrain like southern Europe or Turkey and the Caucuses. They had the opposite issue: the desert Arab territories were always loosely held and not central. They were often held through vassal relationships with local rulers, if at all. (Indeed, we often forget the Ottoman Empire's European territories were more central than its Arab ones.).