Ah, wonderful! I was thinking myself that it was probably just the case that there was no real ceremony of note, and I suppose you could view it that way if you wanted to argue that copying the Qing ceremony while tweaking it to fit the Taiping concept of God isn't much more than bare legitimization, but I think it's interesting enough that the Taiping thought that there was real benefit and legitimacy to be gained from such a practice that was so closely tied to the Qing interpretation, with the exception of the prayer.
That's almost more interesting, it seems to me. Would Taiping leaders have been aware that the general contours of enthronement originated further back than the Qing (I imagine so?), or would it have not been immediately evident that they weren't copying something which originated with the Qing? If they didn't know that the enthronement ceremony originated with the Ming and was rooted in older traditions, it would seem like they would still be making a sort of legitimization judgement wherein they believed that copying a Qing practice (even if it wasn't really a Qing practice) was beneficial.
Well, as I note in the first post, the Qing accession ceremony was basically abbreviated from that of the Ming, and the critical elements (enthronement, supplication and proclamation) remained the same. While yes, you could theoretically say that the Taiping were taking directly from Qing practice, given their anti-Manchu antipathy this is unlikely. Rather, the similarity between the two rites is the result of their common derivation from established Chinese practices.
So yes, they were certainly at least in part drawing on practices commonly understood to confer legitimacy and authority, but they were unlikely to have associated it with the Manchu Qing in particular. I think it is worth noting that the Taiping are better understood as a revivalist movement seeking to restore an idealised vision of a pre-Confucian, monotheistic China, rather than as a movement rooted in very specifically anti-Qing sentiment. Anti-Manchuism was the product of a vision of Han Chinese purity; sentiment against many of the trappings of the imperial system were the product of an opposition to the Taiping view of the Confucian order. But they were more than fine preserving traditions and practices that they conceived of as being part of ancestral, uncorrupted Chinese tradition.
But our candidates for possible sources on such a rite are not confined to prescriptive texts. At least three people who were in Nanjing at the accession of Hong Tianguifu wrote confessions after their capture by the Qing government, including Hong Tianguifu himself, and one or more of these may have mentioned what proceedings took place, if any. The confession of Li Xiucheng, the Taiping general who oversaw the failed defence of Nanjing, says nothing in this regard beyond stating that Hong Tianguifu 登基 dengji ('ascended the throne'). Hong Rengan, the Taiping prime minister and Hong Tianguifu's de facto regent, does not even mention his coming to the throne, skipping from Hong Xiuquan's death on 1 June 1864 to the breaching of the city wall on 19 July. Hong Tianguifu's personal confession is very brief in general, and says only this on the matter of his accession: