Your employer has discretion on who to call into work as long as it doesn't violate labor laws. I'm unaware of any labor laws that says you can't pick employees who haven't worked a full-time shift to come in and work in order to not pay over time for another employee.
If not, then the only thing the law cares about is the hours you actually work, whether or not they came about because you traded shifts or not. The bosses can forbid trading, of course, if that trade would put you in excess of your forty.
Under the FLSA, employer approval is required. So if they ordered another person to work overtime and declined your offer to work overtime, that doesn’t seem to run afoul of any FLSA mandates.
Employers don't need to allow employees to set schedules, outside of a union agreement to allow something of that nature. Generally speaking many employees get little to no say in their schedules, but none is required by law.
If I'm correct, there's no legal reason (barring union policies or employer policies) for them to call any certain employee in. They can choose, and can use whatever reasoning they want as long as it doesn't end up being illegally discriminatory (always have women work OT, never men, or along other protected class lines).
The employer and/or union can have whatever policies around doling out overtime or scheduling to cover for people who call out, or whatever, that they want, as long as they don't go against the law (both discrimination and labor laws). And there may be specialized laws for firefighters, as it's a unique type of shift work, and many states allow things like working 2 24-hour shifts in a week without having to pay overtime, as long as it doesn't exceed a certain number of hours in a certain longer period, or whatever.
I'm GUESSING that OP was originally scheduled to work, say, Monday day shift. Then they traded with Employee B, so now Employee B is scheduled to work Monday day shift, and employee is off (though the actual written/online schedule may still have OP listed). Then Employee B had to call off, so now they have to fill that shift. OP was willing to work, and it would have been OT for them, but apparently they called Employee C, for whom it is also OT.