oof, when i took my sinovac last year everybody was saying how all vaccines save lives, and made fun of who wanted to "choose" their one.
Now even though i'm vaccined (as i should, it's the right thing to do) i can't travel to a lot of countries.
Except taking Western vaccines that were far more effective than the Chinese ones. You know, probably the best thing they could do. They're doing everything they can to enforce basically unenforceable policies. That doesn't mean it's effective...
Efficacy based on what? The CDC calculation of reduction of illnesses among people vaccinated or preventing hospitalization? Only thing I can find on Sinopharm (the strongest of the Chinese vaccines currently) is efficacy against hospitalization of 79%, and that was with older variants (can't find anything with new variants). J&J a reported to be 93% effective at preventing hospitalization but 78% effective at reducing illness based on the CDC criteria. So are you sure you're comparing the same stats?
Or, to put it another way, China did everything they possibly could to prevent transmission and they keep getting it anyways. Having intense prevention policies, but less effective vaccines and treatment options is probably a bad trade, even if you ignore the ethical implications. Strict policies never eradicated a virus, but vaccines have.
Even if Chinese vaccines matched J&J, it still doesn't really explain why they'd refuse to approve mRNA vaccines for use in their country if they wanted to do everything they could.
They opted for historically-proven vector vaccines with insane amounts of testing where we went with yet-unproven mRNA vaccines and no focus on regular testing in comparison.
Also, you know that all vaccines had to go through clinical trials to determine efficacy right? Because once you have data that a vaccine works, it's not really unproven anymore, is it?
I mean, this isn't exactly the formula for krabby patties, mRNA vaccines have been published and used in academia for over a decade. Sure they'd have to fiddle with the formulation to optimize delivery and perhaps infringe a patent or two, but when has China ever cared about such things.