Of course not. But China also has no intentions of detaching themselves from Russia either. In previous years the power could be seen as a little more balanced. These days, its increasingly looking like China is the senior partner here, and Russia increasingly relying on China.
My comparison to China was moreso about raising a rival and not an ally. Certainly, they're Democratic and I get frustrations from the past where the US aligned w/ Pakistan during the Cold War or the US having strong relations w/ the British who colonized India.....but that's precisely why I don't see it working out.
The US should try to foster relations but, talking to Indians, they view it more like India is doing the US a favor lol and how they'll just use the US to become a superpower themselves.
So long as Pakistan or India don't launch nukes or Pakistan doesn't sponsor some terror group that assists in a 9/11 type attack, it makes more sense to just let these nations be themselves and have no further relationship to the US.
If anything, once the US withdrew from Afghanistan (a place that viewed India favorably and was anti-Pakistan) and let it collapse, there is no longer any reason for the US to care about this part of the world.
There's no reason for the US to pick sides. Let China get bogged down in Afghanistan and Pakistan's bullshit, let India be India and not some project that the US hopes to change India by leveraging trade/economic power (that may be welcome at first but just cause resentment down the line).
India can't hold up to China, as of now uneless sweeping changes occur in all indian institutions and it's borders don't have countries that want to destroy the nation it won't get much further than maybe what Germany is today.
Becoming another China but democratic, without a demographic bomb and with plenty of access to blue waters is the best case scenario for India, they can truly be a superpower, in that case, yeah, the US may find another country challenging it's hegemony annoying but at that point India will be able to stand on its own against anyone, it will be the most stupid move ever to not become an ally of the US even if just temporarily until China collapses.