Thank you so much. I knew Jefferson was considered a hypocrite because he owned slaves while speaking against it.
Now we all know two things about Jefferson: he said all men are equal, and he owned some. Those aren't compatible, and I'm not saying he ever lived up to his words. But what changed wasn't those words, it was his actions. He felt it was a state issue, but he never tried to again change it in Virginia. You can't get around that, and it's the nail in the coffin. But there is so much more going on here, too. Jefferson had become massively encumbered with debt which began as a trickle after the death of his FiL, John Wayles, which perhaps ironically is when he procured his largest one time sum of human "property", being about 125 (and including a young Sally Hemings). But even in the choice of wording, such as "the class of laborers do I mean to withold from the comparison that portion whose color has condemned them, in certain parts of our Union, to a subjection to the will of others" and "has not the British seaman, as much as the African been reduced to this bondage by force, in flagrant violation of his own consent, and of his natural right in his own person?" shows he wasn't exactly saying "hey, we treat em good so whats the prob?" He never, ever openly advocated the institution of slavery itself. But he did champion resistance to the Tallmadge Amemdment, which would have basically stopped slavery from expanding westward and started the whole Missouri Crisis, which started the civil war, and that was his concern.
So in 1823 Jefferson called the end result, a civil war fracturing our union over slavery, and nearly 30 years before it would happen. But more, again, is going on here. In 1819 the market crashed and times became tough. Jefferson had guaranteed a loan for a friend/father of granddaughter-in-law, and he almost immediately defaulted sticking Jefferson another 10,000 in debt. It approached, and eventually exceeded, 100,000 in 1826 dollars. Some of the original Wayles debt was in this, too, as mostly interest only bonds had been issued for the past 50 years, if any bonds were issued at all. Jefferson knew his long running musical money game had come to an end. He turned management of Monticello over to his grandson, and he knew his land and humans in bondage were the only hope of clearing his debt. He even said so way back in the 1780s, when his debt was a wee little thing comparatively and leasing his lands out mixed with selling many of those enslaved could have ended his involvement in slavery forever, in theory anyway. But that wouldn't change their condition, as they would still be in bondage, and if that's the case why not keep them where he can ensure "fair" treatment. One thing we see again and again is Jefferson being in control of everything, like his dancing finances, so it's not very surprising he chose not to go that route. By 1819 he didn't even have the choice - if he emancipated his bonded labor force of enslaved humans they would have likely all been held by the court, but particularly those mortgaged to keep up with those interest payments which were still secured debt. He absolutely had motivation at this point not to live up to his own expectations, though he never seems to have considered freeing his own "property" and always looked to the larger stage. Backing up to 1814 again;.
So we need to take this entirely in context, and in doing so it would appear that Wood is equating the later writing of Jefferson, those specifically centered around the Missouri Crisis/Compromise, as being "a furious and frightened defender of the South" - and that's pretty true taken in that context. However he never changed his opinions, only actions.