Romans extracted olive oil by pressing the olives with animal powered stones (either donkeys, mules or oxes) and then pressing the crushed paste in an bean press. This process remained unchanged up until the mid XIX century, when it slowly became mechanized. Horizontal decanters only started appearing in the second half of the XX century. From a taste point of view, presses are better than the decanter as they wash less of the aromas away, however they are much harder to keep clean. So in practice the first olive oils of the year are good, because you are working with clean equipment, but has the season progresses, with contamination the quality decreases.
These grades reflect two things, firstly the olive oil production was very labor intensive and the industrial transformation capacity was limited, so harvesting and processing would take months and in some cases extent until spring. Secondly, olive oil was also an important product with other commercial non-food applications like lightning (something that must of us have forgotten).
Mostly just lower quality of olive oil, as most of the vegetable oils used to adulterate it today had not been learned how to be extracted yet and other nut/seed oils of the time would have been too expensive or too distinct in flavor to stretch it.
For taste, beyond those parameters, it's unlikely that ancient olive oil alone would have a significant divergence in taste compared to modern varieties. One caveat is that the flavour profile of olive oil is indeed shaped by factors such as the timing of harvest/production, weather/heat control, storage, and the production process itself (eg. how the olives are pressed, using a mill or a press, etc.). Compared to the better-stored modern olives which are pressed with the uniformity of industrial processing equipment, the lack of these by cultivars in Antiquity combined with an overall cooler climate during that time period could have potentially accounted to some small difference in taste across the board.
Unlike a lot of other foods, olives don't seem to have undergone many radical changes during cultivation from their wild ancestors, though the exact history of domestication is still somewhat of a mystery. Olive tree can also be exceptionally long lived if properly cared for, with some that are centuries old still being harvested today.