Manchuria is definitely the elephant in the room that Malaquisto isn't mentioning. Japan industrialized the region by viciously exploiting Chinese labor and resources, and by the time the region was seized by the Soviet Union and handed over to the Chinese Communists, Manchuria represented a large percentage of Chinese industrial power.
-- Having said all this, I have to note that there was one part of Japan's conquered territories that saw real investment and development: Manchuria, aka the Japanese puppet state of Manchukuo. The Japanese /did/ invest a lot of money, time and effort into Manchukuo. Partly that's because they were there longer; they started investing there way back in the 1890s, and they physically took control of it in the early 1930s. Partly it's because they planned to stay there indefinitely; there was no "Co-Prosperity Sphere" in Manchuria. It was always gong to be a puppet state under firm Japanese control. And partly it was because they were (relatively) starting from scratch; Manchuria was very underdeveloped, even compared to the rest of China. So they had a relatively blank page to write on. They wanted to use Manchuria for mining, land-intensive agriculture like ranching and wheat and timber, and as a secondary center of heavy industry.
Very broadly speaking, Korea c. 1910 looked a lot like Japan a generation or two earlier -- an insular, primarily agricultural premodern economy that was suddenly embarking upon modernization. Left alone, Korea would very probably have embarked upon a trajectory similar to Japan's. Whether they would have gone as far or as fast gets into alternate history and is beyond the scope of this comment, but the key point here is that the Koreans were already clearly on a developmental path before the Japanese annexation.
On your point about industrialization having already started in Korea pre-Japanese colonization, I think that's a very fair point that's important to mention (though I haven't personally verified any data on that point). Even so, it still indicates that the Japanese did not de-industrialize the Korean colony, as other colonial powers were known to do (like the British example above), and that is also worth noting.
For your point about the Japanese not industrializing some of its Pacific island colonies, that's also fair. I suppose the comment "Japan industrialized its colonies" could use an asterisk next to it. I don't personally read that comment as meaning that Japan industrialized 100% of its colonies. If it even did that with 50% of them, it will still be a striking contrast with other colonizers, imo. Also, those islands are tiny, likely lacking the size and population for a strong manufacturing base, and are much further away from Japan than Korea or Taiwan.
6) Finally, an issue that's been neglected: there were large numbers of Japanese settlers in both Taiwan and Korea. In the case of Taiwan, by the 1940s Japanese settlers, known as "naichijin", were about 12% of the population: around 400,000 out of 3 million. In Korea, there were more Japanese settlers in absolute terms -- about 600,000 -- but since 1940s Korea had over 20 million people, they were only about 3% of the population. But they punched far above their weight, socially, politically and economically. They were an elite, and they restructured the Korean economy and Korean spaces to serve their needs. (A good article on this is Cultivating Settler Colonial Space in Korea: Public Works and the Urban Environment under Japanese Rule" by Tristan Grunow.) Also, their numbers were growing; Japan's long-term plan was to have ever larger settler populations in Korea and Manchuria, and to have an eventual Japanese majority in Taiwan.
Finally, I'm not sure how your point about the Japanese intending to settle in Korea and Taiwan relates to the topic. I suppose it may be connected to the angle of "what were the intentions of the Japanese in developing x, y, or z colonies," but doesn't address whether industrialization happened or not.
"Japan had its own colonial system too, incidentally - but its colonies developed, and they developed because Japan didn't treat them the way the Western powers treated their colonies. The Japanese were very brutal colonizers, they weren't nice guys, but they nonetheless developed their colonies economically; the West just robbed theirs. So if you look at the growth rate of Taiwan and Korea during the period of Japanese colonization, it was approximately the same as Japan's own growth rate through the early part of this century-they were getting industrialized, developing infrastructure, educational levels were going up, agricultural production was increasing. In fact, by the 1930s, Formosa (now Taiwan) was one of the commercial centers of Asia. Well, just compare Taiwan with the Philippines, an American colony right next door: the Philippines is a total basket-case, a Latin American-style basket-case. Again, that tells you something.".
... If Equatorial Guinea has grown so much faster than China, why have we not heard of the ‘Equatorial Guinean economic miracle’, when we hear about the ‘Chinese economic miracle’ all the time? ... But most people do not take Equatorial Guinea’s phenomenal income growth seriously mainly because it is due to a resource bonanza. Nothing about the country’s economy changed other than finding a very large oil reserve in 1996. Without oil, the country would be reduced to one of the poorest in the world once again, which it used to be, as it cannot produce much else.