So, Pedro decided to stay, in a day known as "dia do fico", before "dismissing" the Portuguese army and made José Bonifácio his minister of kingdom and foreign affairs, which made them closer allies. Tje liberals tried to stop this by making Pedro the "perpetual defender of Brazil" and convincing him that a contituent assembly should make the Brazillian constitution. A thing to note is that both sides had no problems with Pedro being king of Brazil, and most of their disputes involved who should make the constitution and their main ideals like what should happen about slavery, as an example.
Furthermore, while this is slightly treading into speculation, at times it seems like Pedro was not particularly interested in ruling Brazil to begin with. In order to understand this perspective, we have to analyze Pedro's childhood. Pedro's mother, Maria Leopold died when he was only a year old. After this his father married Amélie of Leuchtenberg who Pedro had eventually begun to see as being a motherly figure in his life. Unfortunately his father, Pedro II whose influence in Brazil was waning as the country began to seem to be starting to fragment decided it was best to abdicate the throne and depart to Europe, taking Amélie with him. Adding to this, Pedro II had little friends his age, little contact with sisters who could serve as affectionate figures to him. While Pedro did indeed have guardians who acted in ways that allowed for him to have some sort of figure to look up to- at that point the damage was already done. As a result of all of these factors, Pedro had become a person who preferred the company of books and other things associated with a studious individual, and used them as a coping mechanism for his struggles. Now that we understand this important context, lets continue. Some would posit at this point that Pedro II had a dual identity, the former being a workaholic emperor who sought the best for his people, and the latter being a studious individual who preferred arts and sciences over governance, which he saw a burden. We see proof of this being the case as through Pedros letters wherein would claim he was born to devote himself to cultures and sciences.
This is one of the questions on this sub I feel somewhat qualified to at least partially answer, but first I feel its necessary for me to correct some of the implications of it.
The third question may have already been partially answered by your answer above, though, as you did not say anything against him being a competent ruler.