Your post describes perfectly legal conduct on the part of the police. Nothing prohibits police from requesting a search where there is no warrant, and the evidence collected from a consented to search is generally admissible.
If the sister gave police consent to search her property, there is no legal issue with the evidence obtained from that search due to the lack of a warrant. Warrants allow a search without consent, but people are still free to allow police to search their property at their discretion. Sister had the legal right to consent to the search without a warrant if she chose to. She did. Your gf could not have blocked this legally if she tried.
Your gf had no legal right to stop it from happening even if she did have knowledge unless the sister granted access to the police over a room or vehicle she had no authority over, so this argument is largely moot. It was completely the sister's call, and she made it. If gf was renting a room in sister's house that was searched or sister gave police the ability to search a vehicle titled in gf's name, that's something to make sure gf's lawyer is aware of.
As a result of sister being cleared by their investigation, and perhaps because of some information the sister provided in the interview, police then began to focus on gf. It's possible gf was always the 2 suspect and police were simply investigating the sister first and naturally moved to gf once sister was cleared. It's possible that sister said something that made police consider gf a suspect when she wasn't before. The most likely option is that gf was always a suspect in some fashion, and sister either provided information that caused police to focus their investigation on gf more aggressively and/or aided in the investigation into gf by providing leads. Either way, it took an additional month of investigating for police to have the evidence to arrest gf and obtain the warrant to search her property. The cooperation by sister did not result in gf's arrest, rather, it resulted in the police investigating gf which resulted in her arrest.
OP is mad because he believes if sister had not cooperated, it is unlikely the police would have moved on to investigating gf. That's probably not entirely true, but either way, there's no issue with the sister cooperating or the police moving on to investigating another suspect.
As a result of the sister's cooperation, the police then either received information that pointed to a new suspect (your gf) or moved on to the next person they suspected after the sister (again your gf). Possibly both. They then conducted a further investigation into your gf, found evidence against her, and used that evidence to arrest her and obtain a warrant for a search. That's exactly how investigations work.