+/ The first Indochina war between 1945-1954 against US-supported France, resulting the French's defeat (culminating in the famous Battle of Dien Bien Phu).
+/ The Vietnam War between 1954-1975 against the US-supported South Vietnamese (1), resulting in the annexation of South Vietnam.
Cynically - revenge for Vietnamese victory over South Vietnam and Cold War politics. They didn't want South East Asia to be dominated by Vietnam. They didn't vote to give the U.N. seat to the Cambodian government until 1991.
The Khmer Rouge was one of these Khmer parties that did not recognize Vietnamese control of these islands or the wider Mekong Delta. On May 1st, 1975, a group of Khmer Rouge soldiers invaded and occupied the island, but were quickly repelled by the Vietnamese. This was the first aggressive move in the conflict, but not the last. This prompted a series of broader border skirmishes across the Vietnamese-Cambodian border, and for a variety of reasons, a struggle within the Khmer Rouge where pro-Vietnamese or Vietnamese trained cadres were purged in 1976. Cambodia at the time was pro-China, while Vietnam was pro-USSR, and the Sino-Soviet split was ongoing, likely influencing this, but there's a lot of historical animosity, and Pol Pot at the time was trying to reestablish some nationalist vision of Angkor that did not allow for Vietnamese occupation of historical Khmer territory.
The Cambodian civil war deserves separate reading on its own, but long story short, the prince enacts policies to please conservatives that leads to the radicalization of the Communists, Lon Nol stages a coup, and the American-backed Nol government fights the Maoist Communists under Pol Pot, a war that the Communists win. Significantly, during the war, Lon Nol led massive anti-Vietnamese purges and massacres that riled up Cambodian nationalism, and Pol Pot continued these as they served his interests. This obviously strained things between Cambodia, now firmly in the Chinese/Maoist Communist camp, and Vietnam, which was in its own camp and sought to exert its influence. Pol Pot's anti-Vietnamese rhetoric culminated in incursions on Vietnamese land and the massacre of hundreds of civilians, further straining tensions.
Communism in SE Asian largely started with Vietnam. Communist parties initially sought independence from France, and were hugely influenced by Ho Chin Minh and the Vietnamese Communist Party.
From after WWII to just before the Vietnam War, the Vietnamese and Cambodian Communists worked incredibly closely with each other, initially beginning as anti-colonial forces. In both the first Indochina War and the Vietnam War, Vietnamese troops used Cambodia for supply lines and to hide troops, and the Cambodian Communist Party had many Vietnamese members who helped to guide its foundation. The term "Khmer Viet Minh" was used to describe many of the early Cambodian communists, as significant numbers were trained in Vietnam and worked closely with the Vietnamese Viet Minh. However, the Vietnamese Communists envisioned a united Indochina largely dominated by Vietnam, while many Cambodian Communists saw this relationship as too subservient to Vietnam.
In the buildup to the Cambodia-Vietnam War, the Vietnamese saw anti-Vietnamese sentiments and a throwing away of "true" Marxism-Leninism in Cambodia, while Cambodia saw a growing Vietnam attempting to absorb Laos and Cambodia into itself. The atrocities committed by Cambodia on ethnic Vietnamese was a major reason for the invasion, as well as the desire to replace the heavily anti-Vietnam Khmer Rouge with a more pro-Vietnam party that would help foster their dreams of a Vietnam-dominated Communist Indochina. The West didn't support it because it was an infraction on Cambodian sovereignty by invading Vietnamese troops; China didn't support it because the Khmer Rouge was squarely in their basket; and the USSR did support it because the Vietnamese Communists were more closely aligned with the Soviets than the Cambodian Communists were.