No, there was a local paper that did the basic research and raised red flags, but no one followed up until, too late, the NYT and the Post. Really the fault of state and local Dem chairmen.
Do the people in his district who voted for him realize just how utterly stupid he is? It must be one of those cases of "Well, he's a complete moron, but he's OUR moron.".
This, so much this.. They'll use that last term as a money grab, and there's no reason to stop them.. "They'll be gone in 2 years, so why hold them accountable?" will be the common refrain from corrupt politicians, especially the far right..
Then you hold over the fact that the sedition caucus wants him gone and the dems can help them do it.. Nothing motivates a politician more than self interest.
It's a threat, but even if the dems call that bluff and put them on committees, they can't do anything, nothing they propose will make it beyond the Senate. Investigations mean nothing (Mueller, Jan 6th impeachment and special committee) didn't change minds.
Why don't the dems play hardball? "Ok McCarthy, we'll make you speaker, but you expand the ethics board, keep the "freedom" (sedition) caucus away from new bills, and drop this "investigations" talk. Then we can work with you. And we can help secure your place as speaker so you aren't beholden to 20 regressive morons. Fuck these concessions. Give him two hours to either make the deal or the gavel goes to boebert, who WILL use the gavel to hurt you. Nothing partisan will get beyond the house, you know this. You won't affect any change at all, and the longer this takes the shorter your political career.".
You don't have to trust them, pit them against one another. Tell McCarthy, the dems can keep your speakership safe, or we can revoke it and give it to boebert who will just use it to end your career. Nothing motivates a politician more than self interest.
No one wants Republicans in office. The only reason they gained a majority is because of gerrymandering and redistricting. Basically stealing the house by cheating and then having state legislators back them up and even the far right wing supreme Court.