No even remotely mainstream historian would bother to read the work of such an obvious crank. If there is anything of value in it, it's of the "a stopped clock is right twice a day" sort — coincidental and probably incidental. Don't rely on it for anything. The only function Furr seems to have is to give the far-right a university professor to target as "dangerous" (even though it hardly possible to imagine any effort as ineffectual as this one to "rehabilitate" Stalin).
For a little context here, Furr is talking about the so-called Great Terror as if it were inspired by an actual conspiracy within the Soviet Union rather than a mass-extermination of Communist loyalists who personally stood in the way of Stalin's quest for ultimate power. The Stalinist position which Furr asserts as true was that figures like Mikhail Tukhachevsky (who fought in the Russian Civil War for the Reds and had a large hand in the development the Soviet military doctrine that came to be known as Deep Operation-- which upon its deployment against the Nazis had perhaps the largest impact on turning the war effort in favor of the USSR), Mikhail Bukharin (who participated in the October Revolution and edited Pravda), and Grigory Zinoviev (member of the first Soviet Politburo and head of the Communist International) had been conspiring with the German General Staff to overthrow Stalin since the 30's. That's a mighty big claim to make. What is his source? J. Arch Getty's Excesses.
Now, I'm an amateur historian myself, so please don't take that to mean that one requires certain credentials to study history and make critical conclusions about any range of topics, but you have to understand that any work of Furr's is going to approach every source with this thesis already defined in the background and therefore any evidence which contradicts that pre-formed thesis will be disregarded, while any information that supports it, no matter how indirectly or inconsequentially, will be presented as if it is the the only extant source on a subject. For Furr, Stalinist and Soviet history is a justification of his belief system-- not the catalyst for its formation.
Thus, the more common Marxist position of the time was not Furr's: Stalin was a good example of Marxism who fell victim to successful western propaganda, but rather one that framed Stalin as a bastardization of Marxism who derailed the successful revolution launched by Trotsky and Lenin.
Finally, two passages-- one from During the War and one from After the War where Furr contradicts himself by on the one hand describing Stalin as an actor who tried to remove the authority of the party over the state and then following on later to attribute the authority of the party over the state to Stalin himself:
Now, I don't have some kind of most popular people survey from 1945 that I can present to you in order to justify my claim that Stalin was not the most respected person in the world among working people, but perhaps the writing of Marxist Joseph Hanson in his 1956 essay But Why Did They Confess? which describes the Stalinist repressions Furr tries to claim never happened can explain better than I am able to:
Which they weren't, but Furr is (in a sense of being Stalinist willing to twist or ignore facts). So yes, it's probably better to leave the revisionist label to the actual Revisionists, and call Furr's work something else (like garbage).