Archaeologist here. In Europe, archaeology is considered a subdiscipline of history, but in the US it's considered a subdiscipline of anthropology. It doesn't make a lot of difference.
Archaeologists are concerned with material culture - What people in the past have made, and use that as a lens to ask questions about past societies, beliefs and relationships.
So if you are interested in looking for buried artifacts or participating in excavations, that would be something to ask archeologists. If you want to know what historians do “9 to 5” so to speak. That really depends on what kind of historian.
But a history degree there is a lot you can do. Beyond explicitly history related careers, like working as an archivist or research librarian, a training in history can be quite holistic. If you take it seriously you can become a terrific writer with valuable research and critical analysis skills (the constant emphasis on cause and effect and contextual understanding helps this). I want to say nearly a third of the history majors in my undergrad went on to law school afterwards. On a side note, the history of law is a thriving subfield in the United States, and i know many professors who are JD/PhDs. For me, I recognize how difficult it can be to get a traditional tenured professorship nowadays, so I have sought out internships in editorial positions and will be assisting the staff of an academic history journal in the coming months. Essentially, leveraging my writing and editing skills.
I then write about how to interpret and understand the event or time period I'm studying. The end result, hopefully, is a deeper explanation that pushes forward our understanding of the past and the world that we have inherited. Traditional professors are usually writing a book or article alongside teaching and advising. You are usually funded by a combination of your university and outside research institutes. As a PhD student, I will be doing some teaching (think TA or intro level courses) and working on my dissertation (which sometimes is the basis for a published book) while I am funded by a university fellowship.
As a PhD student in History, I am in training to become an academic historian preferably at a university, so I can speak a bit to what historians do in academic settings.
Talk to your university's history department, perhaos the head of undergrad studies. You can speak to geaduate students to get their perspectives on obtaining a PhD. I found that speaking to graduating undergrads in history about what they planned to do was very helpful in tracing out what else I could do with a history degree besides go on to get a PhD.
Many people who pursue history in undergrad or for master’s level degree go in to teaching primary or secondary education.