A steady battalion in line firing a close range volley and counterattacking with fixed bayonets would often repulse an attack in column. However, as I mentioned earlier, attacks in column were typically not made when the enemy did not show signs of disorder. If the enemy seemed able to repulse an attack in column, the attackers would deploy into line and shoot it out, or peck at them with skirmishers, or batter them with artillery until they seemed ready to falter before a rush of cold steel.
Having the proper display was considered important in combat as well as parade; the ranks would not be drawn up differently. Once the battalion was accustomed to being formed up a given way as it would by peacetime drill, there was no desire for improvisation on the battlefield.
With an army of conscripts, what was easy to train and battlefield effective was putting men into a simple formation, point them toward the enemy, and ordering them forward. As callous as this sounds, it was, again, based on the (simplified) notion that an inexorable advance, even sustaining heavy casualties on the initial portion of the attack, would be able to take and hold territory. It rested on psychological theories of attack and defense, on ideas of French military heritage, on the repeated observations on the battlefield that bayonet charges were absolutely effective. All the attacking side had to do was keep walking forward. If they did, the defenders would see them coming. They'd know that the intent was to ram an 18" bayonet into their guts, and no matter how many volleys they could throw down the field - how many? two? three? not enough! - they would not stop. Combine that with the reputation of revolutionary France - these were men who were devouring their own country, who have been murdering the country's nobility, ransacking their own heritage, callously murdering their officers and declaring war, it seemed, on the world order itself - and your average infantryman would have to be made of particularly stern stuff to stay there and meet that advance with their own bayonet.