I’ve always felt like gun control is to democrats as abortion is to republicans, it turns away a lot of single issue voters. I’m going to get a lot of flak for saying that and I know they aren’t wrong on the same level.
My point is that democrats can win more voters by either dropping the gun control shtick or being much more moderate about gun control, and then use that extra political power to make all these policy changes for the benefit of people that will outweigh the benefit not gained by not pursuing gun control to the same degree.
At least this time around, the Democrats weren't punished for what they managed to accomplish, and the conventional wisdom is a combination of stuff like "higher youth turnout thanks to Dems taking action" and "Republicans nominated Crazy candidates/attacked women's rights/etc".
This has been a complaint of such a constituency; that they have been taken for granted or overlooked in the Democrats pursuit of attending other neglected issues and groups that may have also merited attention.
Well that’s the thing, in my view a lot of democrats in power are holdover neolibs who probably don’t actually want universal healthcare, which is why we get all these crappy half-measures and lukewarm messaging. I think that tide is slowly turning though. A party overhaul returning to classical pro-union, working-class liberal ideology with actual progressive policy would probably do pretty well with the electorate provided the DNC was willing to put on some boots and get their hands dirty.
Don’t get me wrong, I agree. I think Tim Ryan is a great dude who pushed a great view for future Ohio and would absolutely make a better Senator, it’s just that Vance had a lot more recognition out of the gate because of his book/movie thing, and there were a bunch of ads attacking “Taxing Tim Ryan.” Taxes here are an easy button to push, because while liberal Columbus is growing (and to a lesser extent Cincy and Cleveland) everywhere else is stagnating, so people don’t like the idea that they’re paying tax and not seeing a return on it.
He actually appeals to their interests as well. Fetterman is progressive on a lot of things but he talks about them in a way that doesn’t feel alienating or divisive, and he’s got the credentials to back up his “one of us” appeal. To me he’s very similar to Sherrod Brown, who’s very left for Ohio but keeps getting elected because he’s our guy, he knows his stuff, and he’s very genuine. Tim Ryan tried something similar but I think Vance had more recognition/appeal plus ran some pretty nasty ads that painted Ryan in a bad light.