I'll also add that the Church of England which is definitely Protestant also refers to itself as catholic in certain official rites which rather threw me when I was watching a friend's ordination.
So, yeah: both Churches consider themselves to be both catholic and orthodox in the particular sense, while recognizing the other as Catholic and Orthodox in a titular sense.
So, what did they mean originally, and when did they start to be applied in a uniquely Christian sense, and then, eventually, as a special titular term describing both the Catholic and Orthodox Churches proper:
This plays into your question, because when you dig into the history of the terms themselves, they are used in their general sense before being applied to either Catholicism or Orthodoxy in their particular or special sense, and when they are used in this sense they refer to the Churches as constituted in that way.
Outside this use of the terms "orthodox" and "catholic" however, it's also important to understand that the word "Church" also has a particular meaning within Christian history and to both the Catholic and Orthodox Churches: whereas the word "church" can mean a building designated for religious worship and/or an assembly of the faithful, when applied within Catholicism and Orthodoxy in a particular sense it designates a body of the faithful who profess a common faith (e.g. the Nicene Creed) and who are united under a validly ordained and lawfully governing bishop. Thus the Catholic Church and Orthodox Church are more than simply a monolithic structure: they're vast organizations comprised of many smaller, autonomous-and-unique-but-nevertheless-united bodies spread throughout the world. The Catholic Church is not, for example, one blob headed by the bishop of Rome (the pope), but many independent particular Churches headed by their bishops who are all in communion with one another and at Rome. The majority of these belong to what's known as the Roman Rite, but there are also those which belong to the Greek (Byzantine) Rite, the Coptic Rite, the Maronite Rite, and so on. In the same way, the Orthodox Church is not one blob headed by the Patriarch of Constantinople, but many independent particular Churches headed by bishops, and so forth.
Of course, the Church which held the aforementioned Councils and which was described as both c/Catholic and o/Orthodox split in the 11th century, in what is now known as the Great Schism. At the time, however, it was not known as the Great Schism. It was one, in fact, of many schisms between Western and Eastern Churches, and at the time was not believed to be permanent (for a variety of reasons held by either side). Ultimately, attempts at reunion (notably the Councils of Florence and Lyon, still hotly debated) failed, and as the split became more ossified, both the Western and Eastern Churches developed their own terminology, largely independent of one another. During this time, the opposing Church may simply have been called the "Western Churches" or the "Eastern Churches," but the distinction between "Catholic" and "Orthodox" wasn't made, and you still have either side referring to itself as the "Catholic" and "Orthodox" Church...
So for your actual question, when did we start using the terms “Church of the East”, “Oriental Orthodox”, “Eastern Orthodox” and “Roman Catholic”, there isn’t really a specific date (as otiac1 noted) but it happened relatively recently.