The new measures also include an EU embargo on Russian seaborne crude. Only Hungary and a select few others are allowed import via pipelines. The countries importing the biggest amounts via pipeline are Germany and Poland, with both countries closing those pipelines.
Mainly because Russia has only one option for transporting the necessary quantities. That option is European owned shipping companies. Up until now, Greek ships have transported 51% of all Russian oil transported by oil tankers, while Russian ships alone have only accounted for 19% and Chinese ships have accounted for 6%. It is impossible for Russia to replace Greei ships as Greece has the far largest fleet of oil tankers in the world.
There are still many countries outside of the G7 and Europe that require Russian oil and won't be able to buy more expensive oil. Currently, benchmark Brent crude is trading at about $86. If the price cap was set at 30 like Poland suggested, Russia would probably stop exporting oil driving up prices even further and leave many countries without oil. The idea behind the oil cap is also to either force Russia to sell oil at a minimal profit or have them waste ressources on building their own shipping and insurance evosystem.
This is economically complicated but allowing Russia to sell at a cap is probably the best way to limit their total oil revenue.
Russia meanwhile will have fewer customers and won't be able to get insurance from western companies, which is a huge ball ache and will further suppress demand for Russian oil.
There are still many countries outside of the G7 and Europe that require Russian oil and won't be able to buy more expensive oil. Currently, benchmark Brent crude is trading at about $86. If the price cap was set at 30 like Poland suggested, Russia would probably stop exporting oil driving up prices even further and leave many countries without oil. The idea behind the oil cap is also to either force Russia to sell oil at a minimal profit or have them waste ressources on building their own shipping and insurance evosystem.
Control of the price cap is all based on getting the West to ensure tankers at sea, Russia does not obey the rules so don't ensure the oil tankers so the price cap will not work, especially as it is Russia buying up all old oil tankers around the world.