The Evangelical Church in Germany means the Protestant. There isn't really a direct equivalent in the language for the American understanding of the word evangelical.
By "Evangelical church", do you mean the Lutherans and other protestant denominations, or actual evangelicals as understood in modern English? From my experience, the big German protestant churches have very little in common with evangelicalism in, say, the US.
Yes, I'm referring specifically to the protestants whom Americans call "Lutherans" - in Germany, they are the Evangelical Church in Germany (Evangelische Kirche in Deutschland or "EKD"). Due to the Berlin Wall and the German-German border, the Evangelical Church in the GDR formed its own organization, the "League of Evangelical Churches in the GDR" (Bund der Evangelischen Kirchen in der DDR or "BEK"). The majority of Christians in the GDR were Lutherans. While the story of church-state relations in the GDR is obviously long and complicated, it is true that relations were often strained, because the Church formed a center of power outside of the State and represented an ideology at odds with that of the State. In the late 1980s, the Church became one of many centers of development and refuge for dissidents in the GDR. Church members (and parish buildings) were instrumental, for example, in the re-establishment of an independent Social Democratic Party in the GDR in 1989.
There are good reasons for this discrepancy between early demands for independent reform and later popular demands for reunification. For many East Germans, reunification was an ambitious demand in 1989, not likely to be accomplished or taken seriously as a policy proposal. Demands for internal reform were simpler, more achievable, and less politically compromised by western associations. Once German reunification became a real possibility - thanks in part to the energetic efforts of Kohl and a lack of serious resistance from the rest of Europe or the West German political establishment - that reluctance to demand reunification disappeared. Also, the choice between western consumer affluence and eastern austerity was no choice at all for many East Germans. "Socialism with a human face" was still just socialism, whose human face had proven be especially gaunt indeed. The security of western markets, western currency, and western law had an overwhelming appeal. Also, the economic basis for an independent East Germany disappeared after just the slightest contact with western competition post-Wall. The rot within the East German economy was publicly unmasked: at its most successful, the East German economy was heavily subsidized, dishonestly accounted, dependent on the now-defunct credit and trade relationships it enjoyed with the Federal Republic and the USSR, and premised on movement restrictions that guaranteed it a reservoir of captive, underpaid labor. And the massive outflux of people from the GDR into the Federal Republic after the fall of the Wall demonstrated for most the political parties the hopelessness of fighting the revealed preference of the GDR population. Grof explains how quickly the East German Social Democrats transformed: "With the changed political situation after the 9th of November, the [Social Democratic] Party [of the GDR] distanced itself from the idea of an independent East Germany, and committed itself to a 'unity of the German nation' in a December 3 'Declaration of the Social Democratic Party on the German Question.'".
No, that's not true, but there are understandable reasons why your grandmother might believe it. There are really two mistaken ideas in play here: that the East Germans did not want a reunification (they did), and that they only wanted the right to travel (they wanted much more than that). In fact, many people in East Germany wanted a reunification (Wiedervereinigung) in 1989-90. And the denial or hindrance of the right to travel was galling for many citizens of the GDR, to be sure, but it was also not the only reason for political protest, nor was it the only reason to favor reunification.
Would a possible reason why there was not a vocal call for reunification in protests such as Nov 4th be that such a demand would have been too dangerous to make, and perhaps even not realistic enough of a goal at that time? Were the calls for a more humane socialism simply the safest way to protest the oppression of the GDR at that time?