I wonder if it being chronologically close to the Opium Wars is another reason for it being relatively less well-known or discussed. The Opium Wars had consequences for China, East Asia (it was a wake-up call for Japan and may have in a way somewhat prepared the Japanese elite for Matthew Perry's visit), probably South Asia as well, and the European Great Powers, and thus had a huge effect on world history without any doubt. The Taiping Rebellion may not have had a major effect on any of those regions outside of China, other than to just say that those regions recognized that the Qing had been weakened.
Even non-Chinese non-European academic interest? (E.g. Japan, South Asia.) Or you mean Chinese or Chinese-language academic interest.
Interesting that it didn't register in China until the Republican Era. For Japan, I imagine that Japan saw China (especially) and India as behemoths of culture and civilization, so seeing that behemoth China get defeated so quickly, it makes sense for them to quickly have had a psychological impact.
What's quite fascinating is that the psychological impact of the Opium Wars was vast for Japan, but for China they didn't really register in the national consciousness until the '20s. I'd argue that, at least from a counterfactual perspective, the continuation of the Qing Empire was quite significant, but I don't think you're wrong to suggest that because on the surface of things, the end result was status quo and the belligerents non-European, attention ended up not being as significant in the popular Western consciousness. Having said that, I'd argue that when it comes to academic interest, significantly more has been written on the Taiping than the Opium Wars, moreso if you exclude purely European-focussed takes on the latter.
I would say that the exact same is true of the Taiping. The precise number of deaths is irrelevant, and trying to work it out is ultimately Sisyphean. Qualitatively, there was a serious demographic impact. Whatever the numbers were, how did this affect people? This is implicitly the position taken by Tobie Meyer-Fong in What Remains: the human cost of the war can at most be assessed through people's attempts to come to terms with its disastrous impacts, as the quantified impacts themselves are both unknowable and irrelevant.
One angle that I feel has gone woefully under-explored with the Taiping is ethnicity. Thanks to work by Pamela Crossley, Mark Elliott and Edward Rhoads, it's clear that anti-Manchu animosity was a major part of the 1911 Revolution and which found its roots significantly earlier in the Qing, but apart from a few references in Crossley to Taiping ethnic rhetoric, a deeper analysis of anti-Manchuism and the Taiping movement is still lacking.
The revolt has always puzzled me (in a good way) because it stands in stark contrast with what I (probably erroneously) think of the Chinese vis a vis religion, but it's clear that Hong tapped into something that resonated with various elite circles and with the peasantry at the same time. Kind of reminds me of the Falun Gong movement today, in the sense that it taps into many different sections of Chinese society.