Well because one day they'll make good on their threats.... everyone in the West likes to look at Russian as incompetent and yes to some degree they are , but they're also the 2nd largest nuclear arsenal and likely with plans to use it should they ever feel vulnerable.
In the event of an all out nuclear war, its entirely possible the last Russian will die just before the last Ukrainian so even a nuclear war won't guarantee a win for Russia!
Unless Russia outright gets the military support from a big player like China or India, they can’t do much outside a nuclear attack if an all out war broke out with nato.
If Russia actually escalates it to a "catastrophe"(as if it isnt already) the west will take direct action and come down on Russia directly till there is no Russia left and then move on to their allies and enablers. Europe may be militarily weak but the US is combined with Europe will be more than enough to end Russia which is why Russia keeps threatening Nukes, they couldn't hope to begin to fight off the west with conventional warfare and is threatening to end the world rather than face the consequences of their actions, its literally their only card to play in such a conflict.
If that isnt enough to convince other indecisive nations and individuals that Russia is an existential danger to them and everyone else, an "I take what I want or everyone on earth dies" approach then they are more shortsighted than a goldfish and too politically bias to think clearly. Africa will burn, all of it and everyone in it, all to sate the ambitions of Putin, Russian oligarchs and the Kremlin. Same goes for South America and every single pocket on earth will die. If Russia gets what it wants then what will stop them from doing again and again if they know no one will oppose them? They will take what they want through force or threat of global Armageddon.
There is no "both sides" to this argument, Russia is threatening the entire planet and all life on it with extinction unless they get what they want, and if it works what makes anyone think they will stop and abandon a "winning strategy"? They will just repeat it until it stops working and enough people figure out what the victims of the Nazis had to learn the hard way, its only a matter of time before they come for you too and the more opposition they eliminate the less hope future victims will have at resisting.