Katty Porter: it's wrong to label them criminals simply for who they are. I.e homosexuals, trans, cross dressers.
Being trans/queer is inherently a sexual thing (to them). I mean, it HAS to be, right? They have their own porn categories The right has looked at them, a lot.
Therefore, since queerness is inherently a sexual thing, queer people shouldn't be allowed anywhere near children. Because A) we can't have them queers conning those sweet and innocent children into doing all that immoral sex stuff and B) no child ever attempts to explore their attractions and self-presentation until they are 18.
It’s also because they can’t conceptualize what it’s like to talk to children about sex and gender without wanting to fuck them, so they erroneously assume everyone else must be the same way.
I think the concern is there are parents who are possibly pushing or influencing, knowingly or unknowingly, their kid into convincing them they have a gender identity issue. And then getting those children hormone blockers and/or gender reassignment surgery, when really they don’t have gender identity issues. This would be a terrible outcome for a child who didn’t actually have a gender identity issue.
As a parent, I agree with you. I didn’t accuse you of assuming your kids are trans based on what toys they play with. I don’t do that either. I am making a general statement that even though you don’t do that and I don’t do that, there may be parents out there doing that and we as a society need to look out for those children who may be exploited by their parents and doctors looking to capitalize on treatment.
Although doctors shouldn’t be transitioning kids based on what the parents want and should be going based on the child’s needs, not all doctors are ethical nor may they be able to actually tell if the child is trans if the parents have clouded their child’s thinking and judgement. And if those parents don’t get the diagnosis they want for their child, then those parents are mostly to seek out a second, third, or fourth opinion. So it isn’t impossible for a child who isn’t trans to end up getting reassignment surgery if their parents are adamant about seeking medical help until they finally find someone willing to do the procedure.