I’ll agree with you on that as well, but usually standards are set as a bare min/max of what is allowed and most companies strive for better because it makes them look better to gov agencies and investors.
“It's tritium folks. Occurs naturally when sun rays interact water molecules, so there is plenty in the ocean already. Though in very very low concentration. But Pacific ocean is pretty big, so a tad more won't be noticed.”.
Yeah but they are dumping it out in the ocean not near the coastline. They aren't just releasing the water from floodgates which would have a ridiculous impact to the environment. Hence what I meant by my analogy.
It's not really a big deal. You'd think highly radioactive water would be bad environmentally, but it would be diluted immediately due to the immensity of the ocean.
Releasing the waste water into the ocean simply reduces the concentration of tritium, which is what's emitting the radiation. And since radiation poisoning depends on exposure to high concentrations, this release of waste water is simply diluting the tritium to a level that makes it pretty much harmless.
For any marine organism to ingest enough tritium from the waste water, that they then contain harmful levels of radiation, would require ingesting more tritium than what they'll be exposed to from the waste water. And it does not matter if the waste water isn't evenly distributed. Due to the size of the Pacific, in particular the area where the waste water will be distributed by ocean currents once released, the tritium will be diluted enough that no marine organism will ever ingest or be exposed to enough of the isotope in order to contain harmful levels of radiation.
As for your last erroneous assumption, marine organisms are already exposed to levels of tritium greater than what is contained in the waste water. The surface water in all the oceans of the world contain higher levels of tritium than what Japan will release. So if there was any concern about marine organisms, especially fish, ingesting the infinitesimally small amounts of tritium they'll be exposed to in the waste water, then marine life would already be too irradiated from ingesting the naturally occurring tritium in sea water.
Radioactivity isn't harmless but this is Tritium water - one can do nothing else with that and it's diluted and it's among the weakest sources of beta rays (electrons) - they are blocked by water. They let it decay for some time, too.