I meant by that - rather snarky - characterization that China agreed to a protected status for Hong Kong as a Special Administrative Region (SAR) of China with its own laws, government, and administration separate from that of Mainland China for a 50-year transition period after the handover in 1997. This is sometimes known as the "one country, two systems" policy.
The ongoing controversy over the (PRC-selected) HK government's attempt to sign an extradition agreement with the Mainland, which many believe would override HK's separate - and notoriously fair - justice system, has led to protest marches with up to 2 million people out of HK's total population of just over 7 million.
An excellent response. May I add in clarification though, that there was not a "lease on Hong Kong" expiring in 1997. Hong Kong Island was ceded to Britain in perpetuity under the terms of the Treaty of Nanking in 1842, and the Kowloon peninsula was likewise ceded in 1860. Only the New Territories were given under lease for 99 years by the Convention for the Extension of Hong Kong Territory in 1898, and therefore would have to be returned or renegotiated.
While it is technically true that Hong Kong, Kowloon and Stonecutter's Island were ceded in perpetuity, whereas the New Territories were on a temporary lease, the UK never actually treated the New Territories as an alienable part of Hong Kong, and we can see this through the city's infrastructure. shows what I mean: the New Territories contained four major reservoirs, there was a significant urban concentration in Tsuen Wan, and there were already road and rail tunnels established linking Kowloon to Sha Tin and eventually up to Canton. Also there was a military airfield at Shek Kong, and the outlying islands were receiving infrastructure projects like ferry piers. Early plans for the current airport at Chek Lap Kok were being made in the early '80s, and of course there were the nine New Towns, which now contain just under half of Hong Kong's population, and of which all but two – Tin Shui Wai and North Lantau – began development before the Thatcher-Deng talks.
In terms of negotiations, Thatcher did bring up the possibility of extending the lease on Hong Kong past 1997 in 1982 with Deng Xiao Ping during a visit to the PRC. However, this option was completely rebuffed. Deng cited the lack of true negotiation between the Qing and British governments when the treaty of Nanking was signed in 1842 and during subsequent diplomatic negotiations. The Chinese government made it it clear in the 1980s that any attempt to stop the PRC's "recovery" of Hong Kong would result in military action, with even Thatcher admitting that militarily the UK would not be able to hold the territory. The PRC government considered all of these treaties inherently "unequal" and thus believed it their moral imperative to fully recover from the losses of the Qing. The "unequal" nature of the treaties is somewhat debatable, emphasis on the somewhat. If you're interested in learning more about that I highly recommend Par Cassel's Grounds of Judgment: Extraterritoriality and Imperial Power in Nineteenth-Century China and Japan. He's a Chinese legal historian at the University of Michigan.