That's a really fascinating question, and I'll reference a research paper I came across as well as do a tiny bit of speculation of my own. I welcome academic scrutiny on both of them!
This is a very broad and vastly oversimplified version of events, but I think it's important to realize that Norway as a fully independent modern country has only existed for 116 years (minus the 5 or so it spent as a puppet of Nazi Germany). During most of their history, the language became the only way for most people to really consider themselves Norwegian. This was a way to exercise their cultural and historical identity apart from their two imperious neighbors. The other, far more populous and powerful, Norse speaking nations of Denmark and Sweden were the only real contenders for power in the area, and they never made any concerted effort into forcing the Norwegians into speaking their own particular dialects the same root language. They had no real reason to, as Norway is very remote and removed from the turmoil that is the rest of Continental Europe.
We'll now move away from the research paper and travel a little bit into the land of speculation on my part. I believe the proliferation of dialects comes down mostly to the unique history of Norway, and their isolation as well as an historic lack of self-determination.
Before the 1970s, two things were different: Norwegian dialects were much more diverse and archaic (seen from today's perpective), and could in some cases be mutually unintelligible. There were to major reasons for this: Less travel/communications between regions, and the fact that the written standard (called "dannet dagliale", or "educated speech" when spoken, in practice it was spoken bokmål) had a vastly higher social status and was the only one spoken in the media (like it still is in many countries). So in general, there was much less exposure to the wide array of dialects. At that time, one was expected to switch to bokmål when communicating between dialect areas, such as moving to or even visiting other places, making phone calls, etc. Especially in cities, using rural dialects would be very much frowned upon and perceived as unacceptable.