Russia has expended a far amount of their primary weapons systems. Take APCs/IFCs, I forget the Russian model names. Anyways they're light armored troop transports. Russia pioneered them. Their concriot army model required conscripts to fill the bulk of the military when going to full war. Mobilization would involved a couple weeks training before conscripts would be assigned to partially filled active duty units. The issue is in the special military operation these partially filled professional units were sent in without the full complement of conscripts. It meant troop transports being sent to the front without troops in them, so when it was time to dismou t and support the armored column, there were no dismounts. Then all the armored vehicles got damaged and captured. The Russian military has been one of the top donors to Ukrainian military armaments since the war began.
Yup, even if the Russians just went tactical and localized it to Ukraine. We wouldn’t even need a nuclear response to completely destroy their ability to wage war.
Using nuclear weapons has zero chance of "working". It would start a military conflict Russia absolutely cannot possibly survive, and everyone who has been paying even cursory attention since the invasion of Ukraine should know it.
I personally doubt that Russia can ever win in Ukraine, even if they undertake a WW2-style economic mobilization and receive military equipment from China. Ukraine's suppliers have deeper pockets and better toys than Russia can ever dream of getting.
Russia's last resort before they throw around nukes is total (conventional) war: complete mobilization of the Russian people and economy to fight the war.
The bigger question is: even if Russia completely mobilizes their population and their economy and put everyone on a war time footing, can they win in the end? How long can Russia fight a total war?
The Russian government has so far been trying to not upset ethnic Russians in Moscow. They first drafted non-Russians, Russians outside of Moscow, and dissidents first. They've been trying to keep their zombie economy propped up with a veneer of normalcy in Moscow while conducting their "limited mobilization" to fight in their "special military operation.".