I want to focus in on the part where he says "I cannot change the lease to lower the rent". This is patently false, or at best inaccurate.
Assuming that this is a standard lease (meaning he has no right under the current terms to reside in the shed) you have the most leverage in this situation and can negotiate a much more favorable rent to you. Consider your landlord's alternatives if you do not agree to let him stay. He would need to find alternative accomodations, which would have substantial cost. Consider as well that this likely signals an intent by the landlord to not renew your lease. Expect to move when the lease term ends.
There is no law preventing you, the renter, and him, the landlord, from mutually agreeing to new terms of rental. This can include modifying the lease to simultaneously (1) lower your rent and (2) allow him to stay on the property for the remainder of the lease term.
Either way: if the owner thinks he's allowed to change the lease by changing your living conditions (aka moving in), then he's allowed to change the rental price. Since your lease is up in December, that's a LONG time to be breaking lease terms.
IANAL. You definitely need to read through the lease to determine if he's allowed to move in with no mention. As others have mentioned here there are special contract terminology to keep a lookout for. Most of the time you, as a tenant, are supposed to have a 30 days 24+ hours notice before the owner makes a visit for inspection (unless emergencies happen), and shouldn't have to let the owner live on the property you're renting.
I would say your best bet, if your willing, is simply to terminate your lease and move out, citing your landlords violation of the lease by disrupting your quiet enjoyment of the property. Put the onus on the landlord to file suit to collect back rent. I'm pretty sure zero judges are going to enter a judgment against you when you testify, and provide evidence, "the landlord moved into a shed in the backyard without utilities and told me to just deal with it, when my lease indicates I have exclusive use of the house and yard." Unless he plans on never leaving that storage shed, it's going to be violating your exclusive use of the yard, at minimum.
If you are renting a "house and lot" and your lease is specific that you maintain yard and are entitled an unencumbered use of yard (in other words its not a shared yard with other tenants) then he is breaking your lease. Its likely you can move out and sue him for damages. In many states, when either part breaks a lease the damaged are can be entitled to "treble" damages which is just legal terminology for 3 times as much as your damages proven are. This one is definitely worth paying an attorney for 30 minutes of his time to help you. If your not looking for a windfall, and yard use ws specific to the lease, I just let him know you are leaving and get him to sign that he is ending the lease early and agrees to return your full deposit and agrees that he is not entitled to any additional monies.