The way to build up this knowledge is to read more and more and more. It will eventually start to reinforce itself, and the themes and stories of one book will start overlapping with the themes and stories of others. There is no other way to do it; you have to put in the time. It does not require extensive note-taking (though that doesn't hurt; re-writing what you have read in your own words is a way to encode it into your memory). It definitely does not require memorization. But it does require time. So if your goal is to become a historian, there is a disadvantage to doing it very quickly. On the flip side, it is one of those few academic professions that one actually gets better at over time, because you accumulate more and more and more (it is not a profession where only the young are good at it).
The up-shot is that the more you end up reading, the quicker the assimilation will go. Once you know something, it is easier to add to it ("oh, not _just_ Mongols, it's also X and Y and Z"). So this is a process that goes quicker and gets easier over time. When you are first starting it feels like a million little things, but gradually your brain starts to structure it. (I think of it as a tree. You need to start growing the trunks and branches. But eventually adding new leaves will be trivial.).
Thank you very much for your answer. So; reading. Good, I'm filling most of my free time already with reading textbooks and popular histories. I guess I should slowly move onto historiography and academic stuff.
Grad school in history is much less about the actual history and much more on the historiography. You have to learn what has been written before you can write your own stuff. So try to get a handle on that. How? Figure out which journals are the Big Important Journals™ in the field and hit a library to read them. Find articles by Big Important Scholars™ and devour them. Look for review articles (articles that review multiple books at once) and learn the ways in which the books fit into the historiography. You will spend much of your time in grad school writing historiographical essays. Reading a bunch of them beforehand will make you familiar with the style and techniques used.