Not going to happen. This is just the typical empty promise by an opposition party that only pretends to be progressive as long as it doesn't actually have any power to put their votes where their mouth is.
Or MAYBE it was to play pretend at democracy while not really giving up power to the unwashed, uneducated masses who clearly would not know what was best for them.
It takes a particular type of fool to fail to understand this and instead start dismantling the structure in the blind pursuit of democracy over all else. It leads to asinine pieces of legislation like the Fixed Term Parliament Act which led to the Prime Minister of a minority government being deadlocked in parliament and yet unable to call an election despite opinion polls indicating if he did he would win a landslide majority in favour of what he wanted to do, simply because he was unable to ask the monarch to exercise the prerogative right to call elections and the opposition knew elections would see them decimated and so repeatedly blocked them in the house. In the end, he was forced to wait until a scheduled recess and use the still extant prerogative of prorogation (arguably far less democratic, ironically) to force through his program by default. Fortunately the FTPA has since been repealed, but let us learn from that lesson rather than repeating the mistake with the Lords.
Democracy provides accountability but not necessarily strong leadership and generally not competence. For this reason members are elected to the House of Commons to represent the people but are constrained and guided by the Lords and to a lesser extent the monarch.
Australia uses a different voting system for the upper house (house of review, like the house of Lords) and the lower house (Parliament, writes the bills).
The lower house uses electorates, so representatives (in theory) tend to be focused on & across local issues.
The upper house uses proportional voting, and they're elected half as often. For a few reasons, there's a lot of long term, institutionalized senators. It tends to elect a 50/50 split with the balance of power held by a 3rd party.