You mention connections a lot. That's only one of the types of things someone could offer, and it has implications about ongoing relationships with other Europeans.
I think one thing that is important to note is that the relationships between Native Americans and Europeans were really, really, REALLY complex. One dynamic we see time and time again is trade, both sides benefited from trade and at the same time were always looking for any advantages. If you have connections to exotic goods you have power, we can see this in the social structures at Cahokia in 1100 AD as well as in the 17th century. This isn't unique to any one culture, but I did want to note it as many stereotypes on Native Americans seem to paint these communities as being fairly altruistic and almost naive on matters of trade. While altruism did occur, Europeans were often accepted into communities due to the potential to utilize the connections they had. You mention the French in another comment, and they are a really good example of this. In 'Archaeology of the Soul', one of my personal favorite texts, Hall describes a situation where French colonists develop a community close to an existing tribal community. To sum it up, at first the colonists are allowed to live in the area and are not harassed. Remember, these colonists would have brought with them trade goods like worked metal utensils/tools. I had a professor who once told me that the best way to date copper artifacts was to see if it was a modified pot as once Europeans arrive it was easier to trade for pots and dismantle them than it would be to find copper to work into tools. More anecdotal than anything, but it highlights how sought after these trade goods would be.
I am not familiar with a specific situation like the one you describe so unfortunately I do not have an example to point to. However I don't think you would see many skilled craftsmen running out to go live in tribal communities. For starters many coming over would either already have employment arranged or would have an incentive to stay and develop a homestead in a location. While these individuals may have been trained in a craft we have to ask ourselves how likely it would be that a skilled craftsmen would enlist in a fur company job in "a few acres of snow" or would agree to become a farmer in Canada. The odds are slim, but still possible I guess. But another limit would be resources, how would they practice their craft in a community that has no experience with it? They wouldn't be able to simply trade for these specialty items as they would be quite hard to come by half a world away. You have to remember that places like New France were extremely sparsely populated by the French for the longest time. This is not my area of study, but as someone who has been exploring my own French-Canadian ancestry it is amazing to see how so few actually ended up coming to Canada in the early days. At one point a small party was able to hold the capital hostage simply because a small band of men were able to overwhelm the small population. It would take events like the Grande Recrue and the crown sending over 'filles de Roi' to prevent the decline in population in New France.
Is there a specific region/time period you have in mind for this? The colonizing nations would have not only had different approaches to the Native populations, but also changed this approach depending on the situation at hand. Add to this changing leadership on both sides and what was allowed in 1703 might not be the case in 1789.