Shocking. Anyone who doubts Trump is a Russian shill is willfully obtuse. I mean just look at all this shit, and now the GOP led House isn't going to make looking into the Mar-a-lago documents a priority, just enabling foreign agents to run amok in our government.
► Trump was $4 billion in debt after his Atlantic City casinos went bankrupt. No U.S. bank would touch him. Then foreign money began flowing in through Bayrock (mentioned above). Bayrock was run by two investors: Tevfik Arif, a Kazakhstan-born former Soviet official who drew on bottomless sources of money from the former Soviet republic; and Felix Sater, a Russian-born businessman who had pleaded guilty in the 1990s to a huge stock-fraud scheme involving the Russian mafia. Bayrock partnered with Trump in 2005 and poured money into the Trump organization under the legal guise of licensing his name and property management.
► Trump was first compromised by the Russians in the 80s. In 1984, the Russian Mafia began to use Trump real estate to launder money. In 1987, the Soviet ambassador to the United Nations, Yuri Dubinin, arranged for Trump and his then-wife, Ivana, to enjoy an all-expense-paid trip to Moscow to consider possible business prospects. Only seven weeks after his trip, Trump ran full-page ads in the Boston Globe, the NYT and WaPO calling for, in effect, the dismantling of the postwar Western foreign policy alliance. The whole Trump/Russian connection started out as laundering money for the Russian mob through Trump's real estate, but evolved into something far bigger.
This is interesting because you can also state that the Trump campaign received illegal contributions from Russia.
trump getting Russian money funneled through members of the gop, or more specifically members of the gop “aides” who I sure will with say they had no idea whatsoever this was going on or just call it a witch hunt.
It's weird how so many Republicans are funneling Russian money into their agendas, and how so many Republicans immediately took the side of Russia in the recent Ukraine conflict. And how Tump allowed Russian media and interviewers into a private meeting, Kushner creating a direct communication link to the Kremlin, and how McCain stated blatantly that Rand Paul was a Russian asset?