I studied linguistics in undergrad and specialized in historical and sociolinguistics. The Transatlantic or Mid-Atlantic accent is called such because it sounds like it’s located in some geographic point between the US and the UK, having a blend of features from both dialects. However, it was used only amongst Americans (and some Canadians), and linguists generally agree that the Mid-Atlantic accent is not a native accent but an affected or cultivated one.
The study of affected or cultivated speech falls under the field of sociolinguistics, which is primarily concerned with the social and cultural implications of speech patterns. A persons speech can be "affected" when an affinity for a certain group, locality, or culture causes them to emulate the supposed speech patterns of its people. One easy (and generally negatively viewed) example would be the middle-class white boy who adopts, and sometimes incorrectly applies, aspects of African-American Vernacular English, because of the cultural associations made with this speech (his favorite rappers, etc).
The belief in a General American accent being related to whiteness can be seen when challenged in media and studies whereby African Americans adopt a 'White' (read General American aka Midwest) accent in order to avoid prejudice and stereotypes. The opposite can be seen whereby POCs in Hollywood have to often put on an accent that relates to their race for comedic . My favorite example of this racial prejudice with accents is when The Daily Show with Trevor Noah was berated for forcing one of their correspondents, Ronny Chieng, to put on an offensive 'Chinese' accent, but it was revealed that the accent was Chieng's actual accent when speaking English.
In South Africa, the language of Afrikaans developed within the last four hundred years. Initially, it was a unifying language among slaves and slave owners and drew influence from a variety of languages with Dutch being the 'base' language. When Afrikaans pride by the White Afrikaans people flared up during the first Anglo Boer war in the 1800s, Afrikaans was claimed as the language of 'proper' South Africans i.e. White Afrikaans-speaking people. This 'Afrikaner Pride' continued and Afrikaans was the language of the National Party that established and ruled during Apartheid. Much of the wealth and all of the political power in South Africa was held by white Afrikaans people and thus it became the national standard to which South Africans were expected to defer. The way in which people of color and poorer communities spoke Afrikaans was deemed as incorrect and mocked or viewed as a sign of lower intelligence even though it is from those communities that the language developed in the first . Ironically, there has been a shift of attitude towards Afrikaans as people attempt to distance themselves from the Apartheid era whereby the ability to speak English is seen to have some sort of higher social status, especially if the accent with which English is spoken is close to that of the white English South Africans who settled in SA in the 1800s. They were the formidable opponents to the Afrikaans people in colonizing South Africa as their own and set off the call to action by Afrikaans people to establish themselves and their culture. Currently, British English and American English are viewed as 'posh' and indicators of a higher social status regardless of the socio-economic status of the accent within the region from which it originates.
The specific speech pattern of English gentry that Americans came to emulate was Received Pronunciation (RP, or the Queen's English), which is considered the elite standard for British English to this day. One notable feature of this dialect is that it's non-rhotic (r-less), so the word car (kɑr in American IPA) is pronounced cahh (kɑː in British IPA). This might be the most recognizable feature of Mid-Atlantic English and stands out because American English is rhotic - think of the wealthy woman in a film noir who says dahhling for darling.
The Mid-Atlantic accent is so well-known because of its use in film and amongst Hollywood stars, however there are many examples of affected speech in other languages as well. In France, young educated people who aren't from Paris might try to emulate the metropolitan region's speech. A different example in English would be Cultivated Australian English, which similarly emulates British RP, and can be heard by well-known Australians like Cate Blanchett. Overall, a cultivated accent is when a larger group uses affected speech to the point when it becomes its own established accent or dialect that is still markedly different from its target dialect.
There may have been, almost certainly is, some socio-culteral reason for the use of a specific accent on a nationwide broadcast system. There is not any technical reason for it.