He begun his invasion in 383 and lost spectacularly in the Battle of Feishui,in which the ethnically "Han" navy of the Jin triumphed over his. Why did he want to invade despite the insistent advice of his Chinese advisors and his brother,the Prime Minister ? Well we don't really know (yeah I know),but traditional Chinese records such as Zizhi Tongjian have him describe it as a means of unification,to unite the empire. Yet the same record stresses the important of Feishui in that it managed to repel the Di, saving China from foreign rule and ensuing Han rule south of the Yanze.
Again,I quote this to illustrate one point : Tianxia varied depending on who was using it. Each king justified tianxia as both their casus belli and their raison d'être ;They conquered each other because they needed to unite all of tianxia and it was tianxia because their rivals owned it. A self perpetuating circle,if you will. Over time and over dynasties, this became the "norm". Chinese lands had to "unite" because previous dynasties had taken said land(Han conquest of Nanyue),or because there was a rival warlord who challenged imperial power(Song unification in the Tang-Song transition),or because a rival king,like the kingdom of Nanzhao ( modern day Yunnan) had become a credible threat to Chinese power in the region,resulting in the Tang invasion of Nanzhao in 863.
When the Han rule collapsed after centuries of rule (bar the brief usurpation of Wang Mang) into civil war 190, leading to many warlords then to three (well four if one counts the overlooked Gongsun clan of Liaodong) factions by 214 (and becoming Emperors in the earlier 220's).
The longer answer: Historically, the two periods prior to unification under the first Emperor of the Qin 秦始皇 (259 – 210 BC) are referred to as the Spring and Autumn 春秋 period, and the Warring States 戰國 period, both taking place under the nominal reign of the Eastern Zhou 東周 (770–256 BC). The Eastern Zhou was preceded by a smaller kingdom, the Western Zhou 西周 (1045–771 BC) which had in turn overthrown the Shang 商 (who claimed to have in turn overthrown the Xia 夏, inventors of the Chinese script), setting up a feudal vassal system 封建 which, over the course of several centuries became increasingly unwieldy, while at the same allowing the (written) language and culture of the central state to spread across a larger and larger geographic area. Here's a map of the various kingdoms that existed during the SA&WS periods, with Zhou the middle:
The historian Sima Qian 司馬遷 (145–86 BC) touches on this when discussing the surprising success of Qin in conquering the other kingdoms of the Eastern Zhou:
To add to that, the Qianlong Emperor turned the cited reference on its head when he came to the throne. To quote Pamela Kyle Crossley.