just typical American schizophrenic online mentality. You find it on American comment sections of either side (left or right). You are either for the narrative or you must be some kind of spy sent there by the opposing side. You can try to argue with them that you are having a rational argument, but it's like trying to convince a religious person. In fact these political sides are like religions at this point.
I think that's BS to be honest, Russian Federation is nowhere near collapse and they have plenty of allies still.
While I’m glad Ukraine has held Russia in check, it’d be silly to think Russia is beat. If previous wars have taught us anything Russia always does bad in the first years of war until they get their manufacturing going and figure things out. I hope this doesn’t last but I’d never count Russia out.
Because Russia isn’t heading for defeat. They are doing much much worse than expected. They’re paying a high price for small gains, but defeat is still a long way off and it isn’t certain.
We all hope Putin will bring his troops home, but that’s just a wish. In reality, he still has enough resources to keep going for a few more years.
Third parties absolutely push for longer wars. The longer Russia is bogged down in Ukraine the better it is for pretty much everybody, except Ukraine and Russia.
Not to be too nitpick, but it's just Ukraine, not the Ukraine. It may seem like a silly distinction, but Russia has used "the Ukraine" to try and identify the area as a region (e.g: the Midwest) rather than a nation.
There may not be a lot of off ramps to this highway of destruction that Putin has put humanity in, but it may not be as bad as you would think from the statements. Ukraine wants the 1991 borders, which can be achieved without Ukraine invading Russia (because those are the internationally recognized sovereign borders of Ukraine). From there, the Russians could be negotiated into some kind of peace with honor, perhaps with some negotiation of exclusive economic zones in the Black Sea, reinitiating the lease at Sevastopol, guaranteeing the rights of Russian-speaking Ukrainians (to address the first reason that Russia claimed they needed to invade Ukraine), and/or guaranteed transfer of goods between Russia and Europe through Ukrainian controlled infrastructure. I'm by no means saying those would be easy concessions or that they would be guaranteed to give the Russian administration enough face saving to accept the peace deal. Putin's death or sudden change of heart remain the simplest path to peace by a long shot. But the negotiating positions are not quite as unreconcilably far apart as they may seem when you look at public statement and maps of claimed territories. Or perhaps I'm being overly optimistic. Time will tell, I suppose.