You say that Mao had all the experienced generals yet none of the "good" military hardware. How was Chiang able to keep his trained forces from flipping sides?
Also you say that China interfered directly in Korea my understanding till now was that it fought by proxy through "volunteers" did it ever formally declare it's taking part on the side of the North?
1Stalin was unwilling to intervene directly in the Korean War as he was fearful of provoking the US, but he was more than willing to let the North Korean and Chinese Communists take the same risk.
When North Korea invaded South Korea in June 1950, Truman thus felt compelled to expand his policy of containing Communism, and to take an energetic stand against the Chinese Communists. He had already made public commitments to South Korea, Japan and the Philippines - now it seemed logical to make a commitment to Taiwan as a bulwark against the spread of Communism into Asia. Thus, even as Mao's PLA was trying to work out the logistics of how to stage a maritime invasion, Truman ordered the US Seventh Fleet to take up stations in the Taiwan Strait, directly between the Kuomintang army on Taiwan and the Communist forces in Fujian. The message was clear: the US may have been willing to let Mao drive Chiang Kai-shek out of China, but they would not let Mao seize Taiwan. US conviction that it must defend Taiwan was reinforced by China's decision to intervene directly in the Korean War in October 1950; China was now a belligerent opposed to the national security interests of the USA and its allies, and thus any state threatened by China was - by corrolary - a prospective US ally to be brought under the shield of the Truman Doctrine and containment.
Second, when China intervened and MacArthur proposed using nuclear weapons or bombing Chinese cities, Truman sacked him, and reiterated that the US was not waging a war of conquest - it was enforcing a UN Security Council Resolution.
The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) under Mao desired and planned to invade Taiwan from the inception of the People's Republic of China in 1949 and only gradually abandoned the idea after it became clear it would be almost impossible to do so due to the shifting geopolitics of the Cold War in the 1950s.
At the time that the People's Republic of China was declared in October 1949, the CCP was still far from achieving its goal of reuniting China: it controlled Manchuria, the North China Plain, and most of the coastal provinces. However, warlords and Kuomintang remnants controlled the southern provinces, Mongolia, Tibet and Xinjiang had declared independence in 1911, and the Kuomintang government had evacuated - with the entire air force, navy and the most disciplined remaining military forces - to the island of Taiwan.