At will means they can terminate you without reason (unless against the law such as discrimination) and you can quit without notice. Are you under contract?
Do you actually have an actual contract? Or are you just going off an agreement and what's in your handbook.
That was from the handbook. My contract says the following: Notice of Termination. COMPANY may terminate this Agreement effective the day COMPANY gives written notice of termination, if you: (a) breach any of its obligations under this Agreement: or (b) fail to provide the standard of performance of services that substantially meet our reasonable expectations. If COMPANY determines it no longer requires your services, COMPANY may terminate this Agreement by giving you a written notification and such termination will be effective from the date of notice. For operational and business reasons you will be required to provide two (2) weeks written notice to COMPANY of the intention to terminate employment.
and here is the remedies section: Remedies. You acknowledge that your compliance with the terms of this Agreement is necessary to protect COMPANIES confidential information and goodwill and that any breach of this Agreement will cause continuing and irreparable injury to COMPANIES. Accordingly, COMPANY may seek and obtain injunctive relief against the breach or threatened breach of any of the terms of this Agreement.
I am under a contract. All it states in my contract is: Notice of Termination. COMPANY may terminate this Agreement effective the day COMPANY gives written notice of termination, if you: (a) breach any of its obligations under this Agreement: or (b) fail to provide the standard of performance of services that substantially meet our reasonable expectations. If COMPANY determines it no longer requires your services, COMPANY may terminate this Agreement by giving you a written notification and such termination will be effective from the date of notice. For operational and business reasons you will be required to provide two (2) weeks written notice to COMPANY of the intention to terminate employment.
If you have an actual contract, you of course can quit with less than two weeks notice, you would just be subject to whatever penalties are specified in the contract if you do.