This is not a direct answer to your question, but a caveat that "swords are romanticized as the most common weapons of war and single combat" is itself not universal!
So, just as swords were not always the primary weapon of war, neither was their depiction as primary weapons or even as symbols.
Swords do, however, have a much better claim on being the most common secondary weapon of war. While they were rarely the first choice for soldiers, they were quite a popular second choice. That's because swords were very good multi-purpose, all-round weapons--not necessarily what you need to get your primary job done, but definitely what you want to have handy when things got messy and chaotic, which they often did. So hoplites also carried a sword for when the phalanx broke down, knights carried a sword for when their lance broke, archers carried swords in case their position was overrun. Across all unit types, swords were pretty popular as a backup weapon.
But backup swords were generally not prestige weapons; they were practical, short, light, cheap, easy to use, and capable of doing double or triple duty. For instance, 99% of the action seen by those artillery swords was probably clearing brush to prepare gun emplacements, and those sword bayonets saw a lot of use as makeshift entrenchment tools. But the requirements for a versatile backup weapon were the same as far back in history as you care to look. The hoplite xiphos was about 50 cm long, with the Spartans apparently preferring one that was closer to 30 cm. The Germanic seax had a similar range of sizes. So the ubiquity of swords as secondary weapons should not be taken to mean that everyone had an Andúril or a pattern-welded katana just sitting in reserve. Back-up swords were much closer to a big-ass knife than to the two-handed "prestige" swords that you are familiar with from movies and video games. A soldier has a lot of uses for a big knife, and very few for a long sword.
But swords become common in the hands of the less well-to-do if you are willing to blur the lines between short sword and long knife. Your mention of machetes is spot-on, because short, cheap, practical blades with an agricultural heritage were ubiquitous throughout history. Sickle-swords go back to at least ancient Egypt, but there is a long, unglamorous lineage of similar agricultural weapons connecting them to the modern machete, which is essentially the same tool in terms of the practical/martial niche it occupies. In terms of the timeless mystique of the sword, these were not considered to be noble or honourable weapons once the aristocracy had their own distinctive sword types to fetishize, but that doesn't mean they stopped being effective. Popular European medieval takes on the style included the cultellus and the falchion, a broad, cleaver-like sword with agricultural roots (from falx = sickle), and also somewhat machete-like.