Alright people, the report made by the FBI/DoE is of "low confidence." As someone who went to college for a degree in Intelligence Analysis, this is fancy talk for "We're taking a shot in the dark and we don't really believe this." Saying you assess something with low confidence is also something frowned upon in the intelligence community as it means you're not sure of what you're even trying to say is true.
And you lost the presumption of innocence when actively try to push an report that’s made with QUOTE: “LOW confidence”.
"Low confidence" is just the semantics of political nervousness, i.e. avoiding being called a Trump worshipping racist conspiracy theorist. Only 3 cities on earth, Galveston, Chapel Hill and Wuhan, conduct coronavirus research on bats, and they even tried to pretend that Wuhan did nothing of the sort early on. The epicenter is under a half mile away, at a market where the lab workers regularly stop by to shop on their way home. Also it eventually emerged that bats weren't even sold there at all.
Lower confidence than saying it came from infected bats sold at the wet market, as has been claimed for years? When in truth bats weren't even for sale there?...Which would constitute lower confidence? They don't even mention bats anymore, and that they weren't even for sale is NEVER mentioned at all. Talk about low confidence lol.
Yep you're part right, and in response our side promoted equally preposterous things in different forms, such as calling the name China virus racist, or calling it racist to suggest a lab leak. While simultaneously promoting the arguably even more racist notion that this all began due to one race of people buying infected bats for dinner. That they eat such disgusting things that they caused a pandemic. WITHOUT PROOF. Just like our side promoted the falsehood that bats weren't even researched at that lab, which they were. That was promoted by our sides networks up until video evidence proved them wrong. Equally misleading news!
I mean, this headline is a misrepresentation of that actual report. The report is “low confidence” and disagrees with every other agency about the likely origin of Covid.