Considering the Russian contact with Hawaii earlier that century in the form of a rogue German physician, what was the official Russian reaction (if any) to the US annexation? Were the Russians entertaining any colonial projects in regards to the Hawaiian islands around that time?
I do not know the Russian reaction to the US occupation of Hawaii, but I can comment a bit on the challenges that Russia faced in the Pacific.
The Russians were definitely interested in the Pacific, but had a very difficult time actually acting on that interest. This was true throughout the nineteenth and twentieth centuries-- even during the Cold War, the USSR found it difficult to make any inroads in the Pacific.
If you were maybe thinking about the 1930s when tensions between the US and Japan became much more pronounced, then that becomes difficult to say. At that point we are trying to track a divergent timeline more than 40 years forward. Considering the US already had a naval base at Pearl Harbor and considering the presence of US businesses (shipping and plantations) as well as the large number of people holding dual US/Hawaii citizenship, I cannot see a world in which the US would allow Japan to annex the islands.
I read the question as originally asked as not precluding the consideration of US involvement even if it never opted for annexation, so I think its absolutely fair to say that the US would not have tolerated Japanese involvement in Hawaii. If we are pretending that the US decided to ignore the Pacific and its pre-existing interests in Hawaii, then sure its more possible.
You seem to be forgetting the Japanese and the French really did have vested interests in Hawaii and we're preparing to move in when they could find an opportunity. The French wanted to expand their Polynesian realm and the Japanese had a large population in Hawaii and we're looking for ways to gain more control.
However, even if we imagine US not occupying Hawaii, its presence on the islands is important to consider as US was not prepared to see any one else seize the islands. The US had commercial, cultural, and military entanglements on the islands, for instance in 1875 the US signed a Reciprocity Treaty with the Kingdom granting them a lease to establish a naval station at Pearl Harbor. Assuming Hawaii remained independent, it stands to reason that the US lease on Pearl Harbor and the development of a naval station would have continued in one form or another. We could speculate all day how developed the naval station might have become, but considering the importance of Hawaii as a way station in the Northern Pacific, it is not hard to imagine that the US presence would have continued in order to support ships crossing to the Philippines or US interests in East Asia. Additionally, Hawaii became closely tied to the US during the 19th century-- during the 1840s and 50s especially, its missionary schools were the place many elites on the West Coast sent their children (see for instance Governor Romualdo Pacheco of California). Americans also owned large plantations and shipping businesses in the Kingdom and I do not think it a huge stretch that the US would have intervene to prevent its citizens and interests from being impinged upon by another empire-- especially, considering the "yellow peril" of the early 20th century, the ascendent colonial empire of Japan.