There is no single standard of truth for "science" on the whole; physicists, biologists, ecologists, psychologists, etc., all have different expectations about how much "truth" they can access. As a general rule, the more complex the phenomena (where complexity doesn't mean "hard math" but "lots of different things interacting simultaneously") the more diminished is the confidence and sometimes aspirations for total mastery. So physics is extremely good at describing things that are simple by virtue of being small (e.g. elementary particles) and simple by virtue of being so massive that they can be generalized (e.g., stars and black holes), but has a very poor track record at being applied to understanding the workings of a cell, which requires a different sort of science (molecular biology). And psychologists, studying the complex interactions of the human brain (which is enormously complex just by itself) and the world that humans occupy (ridiculously complex) do their best, but it is no surprise that they appear to get it wrong quite often and have "revolutions" in their understanding every generation or so.
So the goals are quite different. This doesn't mean the kind of knowledge that historians generate are entirely made up (they aren't; they are based on evidence) nor that they are useless (as narrative-driven creatures, this stuff matters for us and who we think we are — witness the recent controversies over statues). But any pretense of "scientific" understanding of history, or application of typical scientific methods (e.g., reductionism, simulation, laboratory isolation) to history tends not to work out well (it's all been tried). There is a mismatch between the kinds of knowledge those methods tend to be good at finding, and the kinds of knowledge that historians are looking to generate. (That is not to say that historians can't find scientific methods or insights useful — but those are always ancillary to the main goals of historians. They can help provide insights and structure, but they never give the whole story.).
The fact that historical knowledge is generally not subject to experimentation or testing (there are occasionally places where you can say, "if this was the case, I'd expect X to occur here," and see if that's true or not, but this is not really rigorously done) makes it very "un-scientific" as well. It does not mean that you cannot distinguish between better-justified historical narratives and others, in terms of the historical record. But it does mean that on many topics you will hit a stage in which the empirical, historical record justifies several different and competing interpretations, and there is no guidance on which (if any of them) is the correct one.
That left me to wonder how historians deal with claims of things that, to me, seem to be non-factual through an application of common sense, but you can't really ask someone to "repeat", but I think your answer goes a long way to resolving that!
Good historians know this and own up to it; we don't pretend to be scientists, we don't pretend our understanding of the past is the "final" one, we don't worry that people in the future will see it differently. We do try to figure out what view of the past seems to make the most sense given the evidence and understanding we have, and our work as a profession is to sift through, offer up, and interpret such evidence.
In terms of how we evaluate evidence at all — how do you deal with a document, for example — that is through what we call "contextualization," which is to say, to look deeply, if we can, into the circumstances of the document's creation. We also look at the ways in which multiple documents make competing claims, and try to figure out what underlying reality might have produced those different documents and claims. We don't blindly believe everything that is written down. Sometimes there turns out to be very interesting historical narratives behind a given document and its wrongness (my favorite has to do with Soviet intelligence reports from WWII, some of which describe things that we are pretty sure did not happen — looking more deeply, one finds that if one was a Soviet intelligence officer stationed abroad and did _not_ report ridiculous amounts of progress, one would get recalled to Moscow and vanish... so many of those field reports turn out, in retrospect, to look fabricated, because of how their intelligence-gathering system was set up).