It's a matter of military terminology. In common parlance "the army" refers to the the overall branch of service. However, it's used in a different sense also to refer to a specific formation in a specific place. From :
Specific field armies are usually named or numbered to distinguish them from "army" in the sense of an entire national land military force. In , the typical for writing out the names field armies is ), such as "First Army"; whereas corps are usually distinguished by (e.g. I Corps) and subordinate formations with ) (e.g. 1st Division). A field army may be given a geographical name in addition to or as an alternative to a numerical name, such as the , or (also known as the Fourth Army).
Edited for an extra observation: specifically when talking about the "Army of the Potomac", or the "Army of the Tennessee", the term "Army" here is used to mean a field army, which is a level of military organization made up of two or more Corps. In the 20th century, the US army would use number designations for these field armies (First Army, Third Army, etc.), and yes, these field armies would be activated and deactivated with the wartime expansion and peacetime demobilization of the US Army as a whole.
Once the war ended and terms of service were up, the Union army rapidly mobilized, and a year after the war, the number of army personnel was something like 50,000.
In May, Lincoln called for 42,000 three year army volunteers, 18,000 sailors, and sought to expand the regular army by an additional 23,000. The legality of this was murky - there wasn't a Congressional authorization for this, and Lincoln cited his power as commander in chief, but regardless Congress retroactively authorized this act in July, and authorized an additional million three-year volunteers to boot. Confusingly, some states also raised about 30,000 two year recruits, which it placed at the disposal of the federal government, and which the War Department reluctantly accepted. By 1862, some 700,000 men had joined the Union army, with 90,000 in 90-day units that mostly either had their personnel re-enlist for three year terms, or converted the united into three-year units.