If one looks at the history of R&D for war in the 20th century, one finds that these contexts had to be very deliberately created. The US technological developments in WWII would not have been made had not a deliberate context for their development been created; Vannevar Bush is typically given the credit for both the foresight and the action here, convincing FDR to create two new federal agencies to coordinate and produce this kind of work.
I think this is what I would really emphasize here. There were many wars that resulted in no novel technological developments of any consequence. Arguably most of them prior to the 20th century. The _context_ of the possibility of war, prior to the 20th century, certainly drove some developments, but it's not until the 20th century that you get the industrial-scientific-military-governmental capacity to do rapid R&D on the fly to quite that degree.
Just as importantly, the mere existence of a military conflict does not speed up military innovation; there needs to be a context in which new technologies are available from other spheres and new technology is thought to offer opportunities for major tactical or strategic advantage. If these conditions are absent, wars will simply be fought in the tried-and-tested manner until one side wins. Many resources will be spent or destroyed in the process. It's not by definition an ideal environment for the development of different technology.
Yes, I said exactly that; there was no R&D budget and inventions happened casually or in response to particular situations rather than as part of a concerted programme. Those weren't the goalposts set by u/restricteddata when they said "serious technological innovation that started specifically for military purposes".
Also, people that claim that wars are necessary for technological development tend to focus on military technology. Agriculture, construction, mining, clothing, cooking, etc. are all technological areas that are beyond warfare yet have seen development throughout the ages.
I would add that while the world wars saw quick military technological development, technological development was quick before, between and after the wars. It is entirely reasonable to assume that the 20th century would see quick technological development without the world wars.