This is bit of a minor nitpick, but I believe that in Bible chronology the Flood (Genesis chapters 6 to 9) happens quite a while before the whole Tower of Babel debacle (Genesis chapter 11). So the Neanderthals would have had to met their end in some other fashion.
So, that's the story of the Neanderthal and the apes. We're Neanderthals - or rather, they're us. Amazingly, as science proves through more and more avenues that not only are we not Neanderthal but we're not even the same branch of human, Creationists find more "evidence" to prove we are in fact Neanderthal. And very ironically our true direct ancestors (as proven by DNA etc) they classify as ape. If you think about it, it's incredibly clever in its obfuscation and at the same time they're so incredibly close to the truth. Anyways, stay strong my Neanderthal brothers.
Much like the apes who'd started out walking fully erect and become more ambulatorily impoverished as they got chronologically further from Creation, the human lifespan had, through a similar degradation, grown shorter and shorter as time went on. If we only lived long enough, Creationists postulated, we'd age into Neanderthals.
However we can say with absolutely certainty that the Neanderthals were not simply centuries old humans. This is not only supported by DNA evidence, but the existence of juvenile Neanderthals (which should not exist if juvenile Neanderthals were in fact humans). We can also observe from the fossil record the absence of humans in Europe prior to a certain point, as well as calculate the genetic drift (and therefore chronological isolation) between Neanderthals and humans.
In fact the bulk of what we've learned about Neanderthals has been done this century with the help of DNA evidence, and the more we learn about them the closer to us they become, genetically and behaviorally. It's unlikely but not impossible Neanderthal could eventually be moved to being a subspecies of sapiens, something like homo sapiens Neanderthalensis.
I definitely didn't mean to imply modern humans aren't partly Neanderthal - we indisputably are, just not in the way Creationists postulate, which is that the only difference between Neanderthals and modern humans is our life span, and that we'd "become" the same as the Neanderthal fossils if we simply lived much longer.
Homo Heidelbergensis, who lived in the Middle Pleistocine (about 2 million years ago) is thought to be the ancestor who branched into Neanderthals and us as a direct result of their far-flung migrations, with Neanderthals emerging under the selection pressure of chilly Europe and humans in more temperate Africa. Heidelbergensis is a direct descendant of Homo erectus, who invented fire and spread throughout the Old World. It was originally thought (as the make suggests) to be our first bipedal ancestor, but as archeology progressed such milestones have been pushed back farther and farther. Which brings us to homo habilis, the "handy man" who was thought to have invented tools, only to have that distinction snatched away by their earlier ancestor austrolepithicus who is also credited with our bipedal ambulation. This brings us finally to homini and the branching of our lineage with what would become Chimpanzees, who at this point went off in their own direction. This likely occurred about 7 million years ago.