There is some difficulty in answering because the kinds of sources that could most directly answer this question, like polling data, simply do not appear during this period. But there is plenty to give a general sense, some of which was covered by u/JohnBrownReloaded. There’s a few pieces of particular interest here that I think give a decent impression of what a Union soldier might have thought.
First, there is some need to discuss conscription, which did not appear in any real sense for American citizens until the Civil War. There were some efforts to conscript during the War of 1812, but these efforts were opposed and the war ended before national conscription could begin. Both Confederate and Union forces rather early in the war created a conscription system, but both faced many issues and on the Union side it is estimated that no more than 10% of the army was ever composed of draftees or those who were paid to “substitute” for a draftee. Thus there were some for whom involvement in the war had no meaning other than being drafted or paid to fill someone else’s draft, but these appear to be (for the Union side, at least) a relatively small group. Altogether, this group wouldn’t have ever been large enough to impact what the average soldier would have thought of the war, though it did impact the broader public perception and lead to some charges that the Civil War was a “rich man’s war, but a poor man’s fight.”.
Nonetheless, whatever the average soldier identified as the main cause early in the war, by the late stages it would have been pretty clear that the abolition of slavery was going to be a consequence of Union victory. Whether this became a view of the reason for the war is less clear, but as JohnBrownReloaded noted there is a pretty obvious shift in the way the war is discussed and in particular the aims of abolition. I would note here however that many historians take a different view and place abolitionism as more central even before the war, see Thomas Fleming’s A Disease in the Public Mind for example. But as a general conclusion, I would say that the average Union soldier’s views on the purpose and cause of the war would have been dictated mostly by where they lived at the onset of the war and moved more into abolitionism as the war progressed and Union victory seemed more certain.
This, combined with the rampant popularity among Union soldiers of marching tunes which explicitly reference abolition, such Battle Cry of Freedom and Battle Hymn of The Republic, lends credence to the idea that many Union soldiers absolutely did care. I would also point out that there was, if nothing else, a significant part of the Union army that would have cared about emancipation more than anything else: the black Americans serving in the United States Colored Troops, which comprised 10% of the total Union force by the end of the war.