...And let's remember: this is a man who knew with absolutely confidence that his letters would be saved and become very, very public. In fact, he was upset when he discovered she was burning her own copies: "Think of history!" he reportedly said.
Truman was apparently no stranger to writing such, shall we say, eloquent letters. But the Hume letter was widely published, becoming by far the most in/famous example. One can only imagine how Bess phrased that particular moment's version of "You didn't have to say that.".
There's some context here. Hume was not the first music critic to give Harry's daughter Margaret less than Grammy-level credit for her singing. St. Louis papers judged her first public performances "well-produced but not always impeccable in tone" and "not a great voice, perhaps not even a truly good one, but it is used expertly and with considerable artistry.".
Came here for that last sentence. We need to remember Truman is considered one of our best dressed presidents, Esquire puts him in the top ten for whatever that's worth, which would seem to run in the face of his being crude and rude. Caro remarks in his exhaustive bio series of LBJ that he would take meetings with the bathroom door open. LBJ reveled in his crude and rudeness and used it as a tool to show dominance over others. The idea that Truman even comes close would seem laughable. I'd also add that everything we know about Bill Clinton regarding his behavior behind closed doors would seem to eclipse Truman at his worst.
What Truman did have was a tremendous temper that given his position in life prior to the Presidency that he usually wasn't allowed to express. His mother in law, Madge Wallace (always Mrs. Wallace to Truman even after he took office), was outright abusive to him during the many lean years that he lived under her roof with Bess, and in general he'd have to bite his tongue with her and pretty much everyone else he was subordinate to, which was most of the world even when he found himself the Senator from Pendergast.