The Gospel of Matthew which we have now is written in Greek. The early second-century Christian writer Papias reports there was a Gospel of Matthew written in Aramaic, which may or may not be the same one we have today.
The Gospel of John is widely assumed to have been written in either Roman Asia (likely Ephesus or Smyrna) or Syro-Palestine (likely Galilee or Antioch). Its own statement of purpose is that it was written "so that you may come to believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the Son of God, and that through believing you may have life in his name." However, uncertainty as to the underlying Greek text and ambiguity as to its meaning renders it unclear whether that statement is missionary or instructional (i.e., to outsiders or to members of the Church) in character. A majority of scholars believe the latter, while a minority believe it has a missionary or dual purpose. The Gospel of John was certainly written to provide an authoritative interpretation of the Jesus tradition. It is less clear whether John was written to supplement, correct, or interpret the synoptic Gospels (or even if John was aware of those Gospels). However, the Gospel of John does have definite polemical aims against contemporary understandings of John the Baptist and against "the Jews" (generally referring to Jewish leaders, especially Pharisees, who were opposed to Jesus and his followers, not the entirety of the Jewish people). It may also be anti-gnostic and anti-docetic, although this is far less certain. The majority of community to which the Gospel of John was addressed were likely Jewish Christians, the core of whom would possess the Palestinian Jewish cultural knowledge assumed by the Gospel.
Christianity was originally a sect of Judaism, so Matthew is often more concerned with interpreting Christ's teachings in relation to Jewish law and tradition. Matthew is also the only Gospel written in Aramaic, not Greek.
The Gospel of Matthew was most likely written to Jewish Christians. Reasons for this position include: its stress on the fulfillment of the Old Testament and Jesus's righteousness and fidelity to the law, the omission of explanations of Jewish customs found in Mark, Matthew's decision to present a number of discussions in rabbinic patterns, and refutations of Jewish claims against Jesus (e.g., that his body was stolen or that his birth was illegitimate). Most scholars believe it was written in Syria (and most of those scholars believe it was written in Antioch). There is less certainty as to its purpose. It clearly recounts the life of Jesus, explains how Jesus fulfills the Old Testament, and proclaims the saving activity manifested by Jesus's death and resurrection. In doing so, Matthew likely intends to help his church or churches understand their new faith in the interim between the death and resurrection of Christ and his second coming. In this manner, Matthew acts as a discipling manual, a "handbook" of Jesus's life and teachings. Further suggested purposes include: to act as a midrash of Mark, to act as a lectionary or as a catechetical manual, to address divides within Matthew's community, to act as missionary propaganda, or to function as a polemic against rabbis or Pharisees.