There are a ton of Wisconsin expats here in the twin cities. Vikings packer games are usually a pretty good blend, which is silly as it sounds to me illustrates exactly how many Eastern transplants we have. The problem is the folks who run things in Wisconsin are perfectly happy to get rid of their educated and skilled workers while complaining that's what's happening and blaming it on others.
Most of the plans pretty much involved stating a police Union that protects literal murderers as part of their job description is bad, and getting rid of it. Then rehiring everyone on, and cops with a ton of violent incidents wouldn't get hired on. They would be defunding the current police, and replacing them with the exact same police, minus the bigots and the violent psychopaths that were these bad apples everyone claimed was a minority and shouldn't be grounds to judge the entire force on. So yeah, if everyone agreed to those people were bad, and they shouldn't be there, I don't see why this was an unreasonable proposal.
It makes sense, it's just an opinion that you disagree with so you assume it doesn't make sense. Parents are responsible for the costs associated with their kids that society hasn't agreed to take on, like K-12 education. If a state wants to make a program like this to fund lunches for everyone no matter what, then so be it. But it doesn't change the fact that it's more taxpayer costs for a program than just them covering the kids who can't afford lunch.
We already have a program to pay for meals for families that can't afford it. So your situation of kids performing poorly because they don't get a chance to eat is not happening. What's being objected to is paying for meals for families who can already afford to pay for their kid's meals.
Because it's not the government's job to feed every kid every meal outside school hours. Most families can already afford to feed their kids, so why not just have a program that covers those who actually can't afford it?
There are many students who have parents that don't qualify for a free lunch program because they have enough household income, but are just shitty parents who won't feed their kids or give them enough lunch money. There are far too many schools that make no attempt to hide which kids are getting a free lunch and which are not, and some that even go out of their way to highlight it just for the cruelty of it (probably like this guy's school). I'm betting there are some kids that won't accept the free lunch just to avoid the stigma.
Rich kids aren't taking advantage of the cafeteria food, I promise. They're bringing their own lunches, or purchasing something better than cafeteria food. There are zero exceptions.