In every World War 2 film, allied prisoners are guarded by a fearsome German soldier with a submachine gun on his back and an angry German shepherd on a lead. Is this image accurate for the US as well? How were dogs used to guard POW camps?
Dogs were trained at War Dog Training and Reception Centers. These were: Fort Robinson in Crawford, NE, Front Royal, VA, San Carlos, CA, Cat Island, MS, and Camp Rimini in Helena, MT. Eventually there was a training center for USMC dogs called Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. Dogs were trained by professional dog trainers who had volunteered during the beginning of DfD.
In terms of how dogs were retired, dogs went through a retraining process. They were conditioned to sounds such as ambulance sirens, police cars, traffic, etc to get them acclimated to different noises they had not heard in awhile. They also learned how to become accustomed to strangers and pets again. Dogs that were too aggressive and would pose a danger were euthanized.
Owners did receive their dogs back after the war. In the beginning, DfD stated that dogs were the property of the Army but it soon changed that dogs would be returned if you indicated it on your questionnaire. Owners were notified if their dogs were killed by a notice from the war department. The telegram thanked them for their donation of the dog and their dog’s bravery in service.
So, dogs were indeed donated by their owners. The backbone of Dogs for Defense was getting civilians donating their own household pets for the service. Breeders and showmen also donated their dogs. Some shelter dogs were donated as well, but the bulk were household pets or breeder’s dogs.
Did people donate dogs they just wanted to be rid of or ones they actually thought would be valuable assets?
People donated dogs for a variety of reasons. Many people donated their dogs because they believed it was their patriotic duty to. They were helping their country win the war and every sacrifice was needed, including donating your pets! Some dogs were donated because it was one less mouth that needed to be fed. Even though the pet food industry actually grew during the Depression, having a dog to feed was another expense. I haven’t found any records of people donating their dogs to get rid of them, but I am sure that happened in some instances. The majority donated dogs because of the desire to help the war effort in any way they could. There was a belief that donated dogs could help end the war sooner.
So, after the war every effort was made to return dogs to their original owners. Owners indicated whether they wanted their dog back after the war was over. If not, dogs were taken in by Dogs for Defense and adopted through them. They received thousands of letters asking about the war dogs. Occasionally handlers that served with specific dogs adopted them from their owners.
So I became interested in Dogs for Defense and pets in general because of two reasons. I lost my heart dog named Scout to lymphoma during the first semester of my MA program. I was devastated, she was the perfect dog. That was in 2016 and I still haven't adopted another dog. (I do have the best little cat though.).
2.	Following the end of the war, dogs went through a detraining process. They were acclimated to the sounds of car engines, sirens, traffic, loud noises like fireworks, and other distractions that they would have not seen in combat. They also learned how to not be completely wary of strangers and allow petting again.