As for the specific exercises Sokrates would recommend, Xenophon makes him speak at lenh about the benefits of dancing:
Plato also recommends dancing as preparation for war, although his advice is more mixed. Like Aristotle, Plato was aware that simply exercising the body was not actually enough; warriors had to familiarise themselves with their weapons. He therefore declares that in his ideal state all combat sports (and their exercise regimes) will be banned. Instead, men and women were to train specifically at horse riding, archery, javelin throwing, and spear fighting in heavy armour. Like Xenophon, Plato (himself a former wrestler) believed that simply bulking up wasn't enough to be useful to the city in times of war. The most easily applied form of training was a balanced form of exercise like dancing, but the best training was the actual practice of carrying and using weapons.
"Prize fighters" is actually a pretty colourful translation - the Greek is just pyktai, "boxers". And, frankly, if Xenophon is wrong, he is wrong. We have to bear in mind that the things philosophers comment on in philosophical dialogues are not even vaguely intended as comprehensive instructive appraisals of those things. They are meant to persuade the listener and the reader of a certain philosophical point - in this case, that athletes focus too much on getting better at their particular sport rather than just giving their bodies a good workout that is suitable for men and women of all ages. Sokrates goes on to note that you don't need much room to practice dancing, and you can do it indoors, meaning you can do it at all times of year, and so on. There's no further mention of boxers or what they actually do.
I think it's important to see this kind of remark in the context of the common habit of Classical philosophers to make points by way of rough schematics that make sense on the surface but fall apart when you look at them a little more closely. Xenophon's Sokrates is clearly trying to invoke an image of unbalanced exercise that makes instinctive sense: of course a runner would favour the legs and a boxer the arms and shoulders. Even if it isn't true, it still has that thing infamously referred to in some circles as "truthiness" - the appearance to the layman of sounding about right. That's all that is needed for his rhetorical purpose. He does it quickly and without elaboration or counter-argument because his only point is that dancing is a more balanced form of exercise that is more appropriate for an old, overweight man like Sokrates (in this dialogue). Whether or not Xenophon knew better is up for grabs but it's also irrelevant.
Your comment about Xenophon being wrong makes me wonder if it's not Xenophon but Xenophon's character that's wrong. I've been working on that idea in Sallust where he appears to present bad information in the mouths of his characters. Have you given any thought to that?