It is, in fact, a language thing, Aztlanes is a an acceptable term in Spanish. As for the use of tribes, that has more to do with our self identification than anything else. Us natives tend to speak of ourselves and our fellow indigenous peoples as tribes for two reasons: first and foremost, as a form of reappropriation of a term coined by a very eurocentric zeitgeist to refer to our alleged incivility and lack of formal power structures, and second, simply for the sake of brevity. I of course understand that many Mesoamerican civilisations had been urban and stately for hundreds of years, we know how ancient San Lorenzo and La Venta are.
When we look at these issues we have to keep in mind that the colonial wounds the Spanish conquistadores inflicted in América are deep enough to continue having profound consequences for the very few native communities still alive, still fighting for the right to inhabit their ancestral lands, and for the freedom to exercise their religions and customs in peace. And just because other European nations were also expansionist and conquerors, it doesn't diminish the atrocities committed in the name of the Spanish Crown.
As for the betrayal, all the nauha people, including the Tlaxcalan, were promised a myriad things, not just some special rights. Let's remember that, for example, Cortés agreed to a perpetual independence for Tlaxcala as well as an exemption in perpetuity of all tax and tribute obligations, and well, we all know that there's no such thing as a modern day Kingdom of Tlaxcala. Even if Cortés wasn't the one directly breaking the promises at every turn, even if a few of them were honored for a time, Cortés was, like all conquistadores, perfectly aware of their role and responsibilities: they were not there to meet and greet, they didn't form expeditions to parlay peacefully with new civilisations, they were there under the authority of Isabel and Fernando to conquer all lands they found, a divine right granted to them by the Inter caetera bull of 1493 as defenders of Christianity. As such, conquistadores know that sooner or later, every people they encountered would have to be subjugated in the name of the growing Empire.
Scale matters, I think is one of your points-Columbus was much more organized and systemic in his oppression, than most indigenous groups, more like Roman conquest.
Which seems to suggest that Columbus is responsible and should be held historically accountable not just for prevalent colonialism, but also for racism and sexism?
Should Columbus be held responsible for all subsequent crimes that came after him, or just the ones he actually committed? If not he who rediscovered the Americas, surely someone else soon would have. Was it purely Columbus that led to all subsequent crimes, or do we think that had some other European landed in a similar spot that we would still have lived through a similar history?
I’m curious what you think of the broader world history here, as it relates to your ancestors-namely that all human ancestors, Columbus’ ancestors included, were at some point victims of a stronger culture which overtook a weaker one, and were enslaved or killed outright.
If we agree that human history is littered with the weak being subjugated by the strong, in my mind Columbus was just one of the millions of powerful who just did what the powerful do-plus with a huge technological advantage on his side (plus some diseases too).
At the end of the day, we are all human, and therefore share the exact same potential for good and evil, and certainly worshipping Columbus and ignoring what he did is a lie, just as pointing fingers at Columbus and ignoring indigenous violence and history is wrong too-had the dominant cultures of the Americas had Columbus’s tech, they would have certainly used it to subjugate just as native Americans embraced the firearm as soon as they saw it could kill from greater distances.
and genocide, as I’m sure it all sounds too familiar, and whether or not it’s fair to judge what became Western society based on that long history of violence as Columbus’s detractors seem to want to do-I’m contending that the urge to conquer is human, and if you give one party Stone Age weapons, and another firearms, the firearms will win, and the roles could easily be reversed had the more warlike Stone Age peoples developed gunpowder and ships-which is exactly what became of Stone Age indoEuropeans.
Whether it’s Neolithic who killed their way across Europe using the newly invented wheel and copper weapons to subdue local populations, or Columbus using his technological advantages, or even just good old fashioned by Native American tribes overwhelming each other.
As you said (and I’m going back to read the links you left now) it’s not as if all indigenous tribes were necessarily cruel and warlike, just as there were plenty of farming tribes in Stone Age Europe and later who weren’t either.