In the early period of migration, how insular were Scottish communities in America/Canada, while I know we can say cultural influences still persist, how long might we say such communities maintained a distinctive Scottish identity, as opposed to thinking of their communities more as Americans/Canadians of Scottish descent?
I have argued that Scottish Gaels were an indigenous people in Scotland, understanding “indigeneity” as a quality of culture that is rooted to a specific place, is attuned to the ecology of that place, and the well-being of that place is reflected in the cosmology of the culture. I explore many aspects of Gaelic indigeneity in the book .
BTW, I was the first to point out that Gaels used the term Coillteach “Forest-folk” to refer to First Nations in their literature.
What are your thoughts on the effects of Scottish Gaelic in the English dialect spoken in places like Appalachia? I've read suggestions that aspects of American speech in some regions (such as a- preceding verbs) were influenced by Gaelic but also that this came from certain British English dialects so I'm curious what an actual expert has to say on the matter.
In terms of Gaelic perceptions of the native peoples preceding them in the Carolinas, the surviving evidence is very limited but I have some commentary here:
In the following article, I examine evidence that I had at the time about first-encounter narratives in Scottish Gaelic (I have since found two or three others which confirm my initial interpretations):
There is a long history of interaction between speakers of Scottish Gaelic and various forms of English, and it’s the subject of a book I’ll be publishing in early 2021 called Gaelic In Your Gob.
If you’re talking about Gaelic literature in general, there’s tons of it, and I’ve edited or published a great deal of it, along with other such scholars as Donald Meek and Raghnall MacGilleDhuibh. Most recently Wilson McLeod and I co-edited the first comprehensive anthology of Scottish Gaelic literature, beginning in the 7th century and going to the present, entitled An Ubhal as Àirde / The Highest Apple.
I’ve examined various aspects of this question in two major books We’re Indians Sure Enough: The Legacy of the Scottish Highlanders in the United States and Seanchaidh na Coille / Memory-Keeper of the Forest: Anthology of Canadian Gaelic Literature, as well as in a number of articles.
There are a few further relevant notes in books that I’ve written or edited, inc We’re Indians Sure Enough, Seanchaidh na Coille / Memory-Keeper of the Forest, and Celts in the Americas. This article also has some relevant notes, including further unpacking the term Coillteach: