Anything resembling ideologically-driven development really seems to be exclusive to the Stalin era. Early in the Soviet era aircraft development was limited to Polikarpov's OKB, TsAGI (Central Aerohydrodynamic Institute - the equivalent of NACA/NASA) and the Tupolev OKB that sprung from it, and Grigorovich, who had some experience developing aircraft in the pre-Soviet era. However, while Polikparov and Tupolev definitely appear to have dominated early Soviet aviation, there never seemed to be an effort for centralized development of aircraft. Rather, political control of the OKBs tended to come in the form of arrests and purges. Polikarpov was arrested due to delays in the I-6 fighter, and a prominent engineer who had proposed a (failed) recoilless rifle concept that got a lot of traction in Soviet aviation was executed for the failures of his design. The peak of purely political aviation development would probably be the ANT-20 Maksim Gorky, which was a massive passenger aircraft intended as a flying propaganda piece.
Sukhoi was a bit of a mixed bag. The Su-9 and -11 were very specialized interceptors, designed from the ground up to carry semi-active radar-guided missiles. Although they were nearly identical to the MiG-21 in appearance, they had better radars and were exclusively operated by the PVO. These designs still suffered from a lot of the shortcomings of the MiG-21 in PVO service (short range and poor quality radar), so Sukhoi followed it up with the larger Su-15. The Su-15 was a much larger two-seat aircraft with a significantly larger and more capable radar. It was a specialized interceptor that offered a significantly longer range than the MiG-21 or Su-11 with similar performance and a better payload of missiles. While PVO interceptors were always heavily reliant on ground control, the second crewman also was a major step up, as it massively reduced the pilot workload (historically a major issue on Soviet fighters). The Su-7 was an outlier, procured as a tactical fighter alongside the MiG-21 to fill the same role. It ended up being redirected at the end of development as a fighter-bomber, and in service it would have a fairly successful career as a tactical strike aircraft, eventually being developed into the swing-wing Su-17/22 strike aircraft. Unlike the MiG-21, the Su-7 was purely a frontal aviation platform.
One thing to keep in mind is that competition wasn't necessarily antithetical to Soviet communism, and the competition for aircraft procurement was generally between several design bureaus, all of which were directly controlled by the government.
I see - so in the absence of any hard information, there's no way to ascribe the continued existence of multiple competing design bureaus to a specific ideology or philosophy, competitive or otherwise. The politics you describe are more...ad hoc, so to speak, or personal, than something like I was imagining. So that in itself is quite interesting, thank you.