Does this also work in reverse? Have Chinese historians ever attempted to apply the chao concept to the history of traditional "Western" states like (to keep things at least somewhat relevant to the current topic) the Roman Empire?
Just for fun, it might also be worth nitpicking the counterexamples in your question, as each of China's dynasties may be quite different from the next, and certainly, Roman rule changed quite dramatically over the course of its existence. Sort of a Theseus ship problem, except the design of the ship itself changes as it is rebuilt, so it is only in a very limited sense the same entity.
Not to suggest literally anything in Glubb's work is of any outstanding value, merely that in general we have the occasion to interrogate how empires are defined, and the interesting choice of counterexamples may and have been interrogated before.
Anyway, I would add one obvious counter-example that Glubb mentions in his essay when it suits his purpose, but which he doesn't include as an example in his data set: the Byzantine Empire. We can put aside that, as far as they were concerned they were the Roman Empire ("Byzantine" being a label used by later historians). But even treating it as its own thing, it lasted easily a thousand years, and on more than one occasion overcame periods of serious crisis and decline to rebound politically, economically, culturally, and in territory.
With that said, no. This isn't a rule, and it's not something taken seriously by historians. Glubb's dates that he uses are exceedingly arbitrary and chosen specifically to produce this "rule". An older by u/XenophontheAthenian goes into how his division of the Roman Republic and Roman Empire into two separate "empires" is not only nonsensical, but the dates he uses are incredibly arbitrary.
I'm not even particularly sure Glubb is "pop history" - I think The Fate of Empires is a mostly-forgotten work that has achieved some strange afterlife mostly by being available online and being something that kind of speaks to people's current interests/anxieties.