This is 2022. They have been doing surgery on babies with intersex bodies for over 50 years and they were "experimenting" all those years. So when you heard those complaints from those who grew up about the poor results (some protesting outside a hospital) now you can understand that THEY WERE TELLING THE TRUTH. They just cut all those babies to make them look more female not knowing what the hell they were doing. And they did not inform the parents of this. They told them they can fix their children and make them "normal".
"While the penis has been widely studied, the vulva — which includes the clitoris, labia majora, and labia minora — is poorly understood. Medical science hasn’t historically paid much attention to the sexual function of people with vulvas, which has led to a significant knowledge gap in the field of sexual health.".
Yes. A few Trans men donated their clits after getting bottom surgery thay they could use for research. Not all of the clit I'd visible from the outside.
I don't think for a moment that's how it works normally, but according to the article, that's how it was obtained:
>Peters obtained clitoral nerve tissue from seven adult transmasculine volunteers who underwent gender-affirming genital surgery.
“Peters collected samples from one side of dorsal nerve tissue, a small amount of which is typically trimmed during gender-affirming phalloplasty procedures.”.
So it seems like they took a small sample that would have normally been discarded anyway, not like they just went and cut the whole thing out. It’s easy to get confused because the thing about just saying “bottom surgery” is that it’s a catch all category, not one specific surgery. There’s like, a hundred different procedures and a thousand different combinations depending on what the patient is prioritizing: aesthetics, sensation, penetration, urinary function, etc. etc. etc. There’s a much wider array of options than in top surgeries. Some of them absolutely do involve moving or altering the clitoral nerves, usually to place them into the head of the new phallus or to just make the new phallus out of the enlarged clit itself.