1/ Wagner fighters released from the war in Ukraine are reportedly to be secretly be put under surveillance. Meanwhile, Wagner head Yevgeny Prigozhin's influence seems to have waned, prompting publicity stunts to boost his profile, like the feud with Igor 'Strelkov' Girkin. ⬇️.
"The enemy began measures to evacuate the population from the temporarily occupied territories. According to available information, collaborators with their families are being prepared for departure in the Troyits'ke district of Luhansk region.".
But here is the thing. In WW2 the soldiers do not fight all day, every day till the fight is over. No they need rest, recuperation, they need to maintain their morale. They would do no good burned out unable to help. It is reasonable to take a break, no one should or could fight every day without a break. Step back from the front lines to recuperate, rest and keep the morale up in the face of Russian depravity. Is it possible to get additional help with modding so you can step back? At least for a bit? I am not hugely tech savvy to help but I am sure many here are and can fill in if this helps. But remember, whatever you decide to do, stop, take a break, or whatever know that you made a difference. You didn't turn away in the face of Russian Nazi atrocities, you did what you could to help. You probably can't feel that pride right now, and probably won't for a while, but at some point you are going to look back and realize you didn't just watch, you helped, you did something and it had a big impact. I have read this thing every day for almost a year now, kept me informed, helped us push for help for Ukraine in their darkest hours. Making damn sure our leaders stepped up and helped Ukraine. You helped with that, you helped as one of many to stand against Russian depravity. Kudos to you. And thanks, I don't have to wait to realize I appreciate what you do, I appreciate it right now. Thanks.
Thank you so much for your efforts. It is a terrible tragedy that we witness these horrors. But, we must witness them, and do what we can to help the people of Ukraine retake their country. I truly appreciate your efforts. That being said, if you need to step away for your own mental health I cannot, nor should anyone else, blame you for that. What you are doing matters, even if it feels like it doesn't. Thank you.
Thank you for what you are doing. Just to let you know, this live thread is read in Ukraine, and even by some people I know who are on the frontlines.