To the original response by /u/Celebreth: thank you so very much for providing such an amazingly detailed write-up of this! It was an excellent read and so very intriguing.
I too would be very interested to know the answer to this if you're able and willing to provide it. I am a huge lover of the Nabataeans and have explored a great deal of the Petra area over the past many years of my life (having spent many collective weeks hiking the ancient city). It is by far my favorite place on the planet and so I'm very intrigued by this thread. As an aside, I would \highly encourage\ anyone who loves ancient history and who has not been to Petra to make the journey at least once.
But I digress; to the question: There are so many buildings, temples, and even specialized cave configurations within Petra that we know came from the Roman period (and archeologists are discovering new ones all of the time). Given that the Nabatean Kingdom was annexed by Rome (as /u/Gankom mentions above), might you also be able to speak to how the Romans involved themselves in the later construction efforts of Petra? In other words, is there evidence (perhaps physical or Roman text) to suggest that this was welcomed by the Nabateans and/or that they worked together with the Romans to "improve" their city? ...or were the structures that the Romans introduced more of a one-sided "requirement" for the annexation and ultimately something the Nabateans simply had to endure?
Secondly, and this might be a whole separate post, why did Rome eventually annex Nabataean if the situation was going as well as it seems?
But, as with all things concerning the Roman client states, Rome slowly started to assert more control. Less than 20 years after Gallus' campaign, the Romans began to "ratify" Nabatea's kings. During the first century CE, Nabatea experienced its greatest period of prosperity, with many of the extant buildings today being built, and with the citizens of Petra living in the lap of luxury. Coincidentally, Rome began scooching closer and closer. Finally, in 106 CE (+/- 1 year), Trajan finally absorbed the kingdom into his empire. The reasons are a bit hazy: many of Trajan's Eastern operations are (there are only tiny scraps of evidence remaining that surround his Parthian campaign, for example). We're not entirely sure if the process was peaceful, but it probably wasn't too warlike, since Trajan didn't add Arabicus to his growing list of monikers. Commemorative coins were issued with ARAB(ia) ADQ(uisita), but only years after the event. The governor of Syria earned triumphal honours (military award) and a place in the Forum Augusta for a statue (a big deal). Cassius Dio, our one surviving source that offhandedly mentions it, uses the word "subjugate.".