Are you interested in the causes of the conflict (ie: what factors led to the war itself) or a more broad understanding of racial, regional, cultural, political, and economic factors that were present in the decades leading up to the conflict?
The immediate cause of the creation of the Confederacy and the war was the Presidential election of 1860, but the conflict over slavery's spread to the Western territories had been a political hot button for decades before that. Free labor settlers in the North did not want to economically compete with sprawling slave plantations on the frontier in places like Kansas and Nebraska. Southern planters meanwhile felt that the slave economy needed continued expansion West (or even South, as many wanted to annex Cuba and Central America) to continue its dynamic growth. David Blight goes so far as to formulate what he calls a "Shrinking South" theory, supposing that Southerners feared free labor was going to eclipse and destroy them by the 1850s. Failed measures to compromise in 1850 and 1854 led to the collapse of the Whig Party and the rise of a new anti-slavery party (the Republican Party). Northerners resented being made to enforce the federal Fugitive Slave Act, and the Dred Scott decision by the Supreme Court at the end of the decade ruled that slavery could not be restricted in the Western territories, crystallizing Northern public opinion further behind anti-slavery ideology and the Republican political movement. Furthermore, the failed abolitionist insurrection led by John Brown at Harpers Ferry in 1859 frightened Southerners into believing that Northern anti-slavery sentiment was going to result in more armed attacks on Southern slavery.
Your question is likely better answered by the trajectory of Reconstruction (the decade(s)-long period after the war) rather than the Civil War itself. The war involved the freeing of four million black slaves by executive order under the Lincoln administration, and Reconstruction revolved around a sympathetic North fighting to push forward racial equality in the defeated South. This left a bad taste in the mouth of white Southerners, and eventually led to the establishment of the Lost Cause ideology and the Dunning School once white Southerners violently took control of their state governments in the 1870s and beyond. This answer may help you learn more.
When the presidential election of 1860 began, the Republican Party was painted by pro-slavery politicos as a party in favor of abolitionism and racial equality. They were often referred to as the "black Republicans" by Southerners. The Republican candidate Lincoln ran on a platform that pledged the non-expansion of slavery to the West, something despised by Southern politicians. Lincoln's name was banned from the ballot in the Southern states, and the Democratic Party collapsed over the slavery issue in the Summer of 1860. When Lincoln was elected on an anti-slavery platform in November, the political crisis over slavery entered a new stage, and South Carolina seceded from the United States a month later. Over the following months, several other slave states seceded, forming the Confederacy in early 1861.
This crisis led directly to a cascade of the secession of the Southern, slave holding, states, each of which chose to carefully enshrine slavery in their constitutions. And then, of course this led to the Civil War.