Coffee and coffeeshops are quite a beloved part of Japanese culture today, and Japan is one of the biggest consumers of coffee in Asia. Accordingly, coffee's history in Japan is fairly well-documented, as is the larger westernization phenomena Japan underwent in the mid-19th century onwards.
Now then, what exactly is a kissaten? Kissaten (喫茶店) are Japanese cafes, serving coffee, tea, sweets, snacks, and sometimes meals, just like cafes elsewhere in the world. Unique however, is that with the advent of westernization in Japan, cafes served as not only a front to experience western beverages, they may also serve yoshoku, or Japanese-style western food (spaghetti naporitan, korokke, katsu, omurice, hamburg steak, doria, etc). This however, was a late-Meiji and Taisho era development. Also important to note is how kissaten use the 茶 (tea) character in its name, likely stemming from the traditional 茶屋 (teahouse) concepts in Japan. Teahouses flourished in Edo Japan, popping up around poststations and rest stops along busy travel roads. in works such as , teahouses offered a place to rest and recover after a long days trek between towns. The 喫 in kissaten refer to customs and manners of drinking and enjoying tea, derived originally from China in the Kamakura period.
While I think kissaten are important to understand how coffee has become common in Japan, I'm still not sure about the connection between breakfast and kissaten/coffee. I randomly know that Nagoya has a big breakfast kissaten culture, but I think that's a special case. This I found with breakfast survey data done by a marketing research company in 2016 (so not as reliable as the data I pasted in my previous comment, which comes from government statistics) does show that (for weekdays) bread products are in the lead at 49%, then rice products at 42%, but unfortunately no data on breakfast drinks (that are not soups). But again, I'm not sure a convincing connection to coffee or tea for breakfast can be made just from the bread and rice comparison.
Another aspect of coffee worth mentioning is the relationship between kissaten and the concept of Japanese breakfast. Historically, breakfast would be eaten at home, and it required considerable efforts from the housewife, who needed to cook items such as rice or miso soup, which needed to be prepared the night beforehand as well as early in the morning. In post-war Japan, all of society changed. Firstly, food shortages compelled the US to heavily import wheat and bread into Japan. Children in those years grew up eating bread as part of their school meals, and bread became widely popularized and common within general society. Secondly, developments in public transport and rail travel meant workers could commute longer distances in less time. Thirdly, economic prosperity brought about the salaryman working culture we so commonly associate with Japan today, with many white-collar jobs being offered in densely populated cities. All of these factor into the concept of a morning meal. Time is of the essence, and the busy morning period with commuting and such is hindered by elaborate and complicated meals. Toasting bread and slathering on butter or jam is far easier to prepare than washing and steaming rice, and soaking dashi stock for miso soup, alongside other dishes to be served. Coffee, with caffeine, is naturally favored by working peoples to help them prepare for the day, and is more potent than green tea. Indeed, breakfast tea is now often like that of the west, black tea with or without milk. Thus, urban Japanese people today primary do four options for breakfast (edit) if not eating at home, which are:
Ah, and generally speaking, the more rural and less urban one gets in Japan, the more homecooked and "elaborate" breakfasts can be found, which is indicative of the greater and freer time people in the inaka have over busy salarymen.