Raising livestock of any kind for commercial purposes such as food production is a messy business and herds have always been susceptible to outbreaks of various diseases throughout history. These risks are acceptable because food production is necessary, and people eat meat.
Well, this is the most concerning thing I've read today so far. Since this outbreak has been occurring, there have been several different instances of avian to mammal transmission. That's worrisome in itself, but the adaptation to mink is a more specific threat considering that it could theoretically facilitate mutation of the H5N1 virus to affect humans.
Also alarming is that the article referenced hemorrhagic pneumonia in the Mink. There are flu variants that cause hemorrhagic symptoms such as petechiae but generally in the severest cases only. It's not inconceivable that the flu could mutate both for adaptability in humans but also in other unpredictable ways.
There's also the possibility that if/when avian flu mutates to become easily transmissible between mammals, it may also become much less deadly, which is what happened in lab experiments. But we can't necessarily count on this outcome, which is why these incidents are a cause for concern, and why it would be a really good idea to ban farming mink (they're susceptible to both avian and human flu, so they're ideal "mixing vessels" for a zoonotic mutation to arise in).
Per the article, this incident happened three months ago, and all the minks were euthanized and incinerated. The outbreak doesn't seem to have spread beyond the mink farm, but the fact that the minks contracted it in the first place is extremely alarming to virologists -- this was yet another "near miss" which has led to renewed calls for a total ban on mink farming. Since mink are susceptible to both avian and human flu, they're prime candidates for novel pandemic mutations to arise in.
Even worse, we've also had several confirmed cases of avian flu spreading to wild animals in Montana recently, so the minks are not a one-off mutation.
The current avian flu outbreak is on track to be that largest in history, just counting domestic fowl, and now it's jumped to multiple mammal species in the Americas and Eurasia.
Bird flu hasnt become a pandemic among humans yet, but given the widespread nature of the current virus and the jumps it's making between different species, the chances of bird flu becoming a human pandemic are going up.