His nickname meant "little boot." He got it when he was a young child following his father Tiberius Germanicus on campaigns. They would dress him around as a legionary and that's what the men called him. His full name was Gaius Caesar Augustus Germanicus.
With Caligula there’s a problem that his full name, Gaius Caesar Augustus Germanicus, has no unique names. Practically every third Julio-Claudian is named Gaius. Caesar and Augustus were used as names or titles by most the emperors. And Germanicus was part of the name of his father Germanicus Julius Caesar (the one we normally call Germanicus), and his grandfather Nero Claudius Drusus Germanicus (Tiberius’ brother). So for convenience sake today we call Gaius Caesar Augustus Germanicus “Caligula” because otherwise we’d have to either invent a nickname or some other way to distinguish him.
To highlight this, by modern naming conventions we’d call the famous Gaius Julius Caesar, Gaius Julius Caesar IV; as his father, grandfather, and great-grandfather were also named Gaius Julius Caesar. Most the men in the old Julian family were named Gaius, Sextus, or Lucius. And almost all the women were named Julia. So when talking about these people they tend to be referenced either in reference to other family members or through nicknames. So the famous Julius Caesar had two sisters named Julia that we call Julia Major and Julia Minor. He had a daughter Julia who is generally distinguished by mentioning that she became Pompey’s wife. Then there’s cousin Julia, who is usually referenced because she married a Marcus Antonius and gave birth to the more famous Marcus Antonius (Mark Anthony).
Finally it should be noted that the nickname while not used during his adult life, was adopted by ancient writers, who had the same problem distinguishing him from his family. In fact most our conventions for naming the emperors come from the ancients. So by around the second half of the 4th century the nickname had stuck as his unofficial historical reginal name. Eutropius calls him “Gaius Caesar, Caligula by nickname.” The Historia Augusta of course covers later emperors, but uses “Caligula” as a byword for bad emperor, as in this passage: “He invented certain new kinds of vice, even going beyond the perverts used by the debauchees of old, and he was well acquainted with all the arrangements of Tiberius, Caligula, and Nero.”.
After Gaius Octavianus Thurinus, aka Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus, aka Caesar Augustus (Octavian/Augustus) the family settled into new name patterns, but again the family only used a handful of names. For example there’s three men named Tiberius Claudius Nero. We call the first Tiberius, the second Claudius, and the third Nero.
Caligula's full name was Gaius Ceasar Augustus Germanicus. His father, known as Germanicus, (the older brother of Emperor Claudius) would take him on campaign and had a soldiers kit made for him while still a toddler. He was known to the troops affectionately as Caligula- Historian Mary Beard translates Caligula as "Bootikins".
Isn't it the case that the Emperor Caligula wasn't actually named that, it was his nickname? And he was nicknamed that after the Caliga footwear in some way? I've heard his name translated as something like Bootsie (that it was a diminutive in some way.).