The New World and Slavery are also part of this discussion and their role in Europe's ascension, basically. I would argue that both of these aspects are inseparably interconnected, which is why I will argue accordingly.
Now, concerning non-colonizing European nations. The general rule basically is: the further east the nation was, the fewer benefits it got from the overall European effects. On the subject of the Great Divergence, there is also a Divergence between west and East Europe that is even today very apparent. Russia or Poland stayed relatively economically weak compared to the expanding west-European nations, which can be seen by looking at factors like population growth, urbanization or wages. Italy also suffered tremendously because of the shift towards the Atlantic during colonial expansion and the shifting of the central markets to Seville or Antwerp. Germany overall was in the middle of this development. Especially the (former) Hanseatic cities were able to somewhat profit from colonialism and retained some of their importance. For example, there were also slave-voyages started from Hamburg and these voyages can be directly translated to a 1.2% increase of city growth per 10% increase in slave-voyages. But that's just one example. You could also argue that non-colonizing nations profited in the future from the institutional changes that could have served as a blueprint for these other nations, making change possible there.
I am familiar with their work. From that paper stemmed my comments about the connection between slavery and slave trade and institutional changes in Europe.
One question I've always had for these discussions is that we know the slave trade was pretty big across the world, why didn't this bring as much benefit to those regions vs Europe?
Comparing European imperialism to the Chinese, and the lesser talked about African slave trade to Asia(800AD-1900AD), that brought in the same amount of slaves as to the Americas. Did Asia benefit from the imported slaves and Western involvement pre-world wars as much as other colonized places?