Thank you, this is extremely informative. I currently work for a Harvard teaching hospitals at one of the world's largest transplant programs. I read many professional journals, books written by physicians and health care advocates, and attend a lot of health conferences. I also work in Boston, which is the top medical hub in the nation.
I just put a hold on my library's copy of "The Hospital: Life, Death, and Dollars in a Small American Town" by Brian Alexander, which looked like a good place to start.
Also, would you be able to speak to how approval for expanding social programs varies by specialty or provider type? I would assume for example that private practice or industry-employed clinicians would be more likely to be opposed to such things than hospitalists.
As such, a good place to start this discussion would be to examine more closely the reasons why the AMA and physicians initially opposed Medicare and other forms of socialized healthcare. In 1956, for example, the AMA issued a statement before Congress delineating four primary justifications:
The 4th point is notable as, in the 1930s, the AMA was opposed to any form of health insurance entirely, stating that "no third party must be permitted to come between the patient and his physician." This perspective consequently applied to government health insurance options, and the AMA has consistently feared that Medicare or similar programs would prevent physicians using their own judgement.^3.
Long story short, Starr argues that the AMA and many doctors opposed national health insurance in the mid twentieth century because it threatened their professional autonomy (e.g. the government might try to tell doctors what procedures they could and couldn’t do, when and where they had to work, etc.). However, over the last 30 to 40 years, physician’s professional autonomy has come under threat more from large, integrated healthcare conglomerates than from the government.
Looking at the national healthcare debate through this lens, I would surmise that the answer to your original question might be that many doctors now see for-profit health insurance companies and integrated healthcare organizations (whether they be for-profit or not-for-profit) as a bigger threat to their professional autonomy than an expanded role for government. Thus, the shift to support Medicare for all might be the profession choosing the “lesser of two evils”, so to speak.