A threat to institute civil proceedings doesn’t constitute as extortion. Unfortunately, many people on this sub think asking for something is extortion or blackmailing. If I say I’m going to sue for not cooperating with insurance, not extortion. However, cooperate with the insurance company or I’ll release your nude photos, that’s extortion.
Your argument is basically “don’t ask for anything because it could be perceived as extortion”. Extortion is VERY FACT SPECIFIC and just blindly saying “it could be extortion” does more harm than good in these threads. But I don’t think I’m gonna convince you anyways.
Yeah it's kinda hard to convince me I said something I didn't. No my argument was never "don't ask for anything because it could be perceived as extortion". If that were the case I would've simply told OP don't contact them at all. Instead I told them to go ahead and contact them, but to word things carefully. Somehow you interpret that to read as "don't ask for anything". I don't see how you think advising someone to word their interaction carefully is harmful, but ok.
If you would reread my comment you'll see that I didn't say it was extortion. I simply advised OP to word it carefully so it wouldn't be perceived as such. If someone gets hot headed over something and spouts off without thinking it thru, they could potentially come close to legal entanglement. One should always choose their words carefully when dealing with an adversary.
You can contact her but tread very carefully so it's not interpreted as extortion. Many people don't realize that if they don't cooperate with their insurance company during the investigation of an accident that the claim can be denied and they can be dropped, leaving them exposed to being sued without the representation of their insurance company.
Fortunately, you're not near that point yet, and there is good news: typically once the insurance company and policyholder/covered party is served with a lawsuit, the insurance will offer a defense and the policyholder will usually cooperate, not wanting to be sued for personal assets. This ends in them settling out of court about 99% of the time, so you almost assuredly won't have to actually go through suing the driver and trying to collect from them, but the bad news is there's just no way to force anyone to reimburse you the cost of repairing the car without the owner and driver cooperating, and it will take the effort to pursue the legal process, which is unbelievably slow to the extent it drives people absolutely nuts, and for good reason.
I'll keep my fingers crossed for you, and don't be shy to come back if you have other questions. We can't really advise you on how to build your case, but we are pretty good about being able to give you guidance on what to expect and things like how to dress and behave in court if need be.