Good riddance. With his comments about Hakeem Jeffries he helped spread the very old, very anti-Semitic conspiracy theory that Jews control the government.
Exactly. Those are lobbying groups famously started and run by American Jews. To say that famously Jewish groups “control” a politician, as was said here, sounds a helluva lot like the anti-Semitic conspiracy theory that Jews control the government. That conspiracy theory is old and has led to violent persecution of Jews around the world. Hence why it was called out.
Did you read the article? He referred to AIPAC and Pro-Israel America, not some Israeli lobbying group. AIPAC is an American lobbying group famously started and run by American Jews. It’s not an Israeli group unless you think Jews aren’t really American? (That would put you in the Christian nationalist camp with Marjorie Taylor Greene.) Pro-Israel America is a recent spin off of AIPAC started by people (Jewish Americans) who were previously in AIPAC leadership positions.
Perhaps this helps you understand why Jews (both pro-Israel and pro-Palestine) tend to be somewhat alarmed and offended by any insinuation that organizations rooted in the Jewish community manipulate politicians.
The problem is claiming any politician who supports Israel does so because they're being manipulated.
Lobbying barely explains it.. the core left wing is sympathetic with Palestine, and the core right wing is a roiling stew of antisemitism, so it boggles the mind how Israel is able to continually receive such positive treatment by our leaders.
The difference is that he's not saying this because they're Jewish Americans fighting for Jews around the world, he's saying this because they're lobbyists that are lobbying for an apartheid state.
Saying these remarks resemble antisemitism is not crazy but saying that antisemitism is the reason he's calling out a lobbying group and an apartheid state is crazy. It's a way for Israel & APAIC to shield itself from criticism without having to be accountable to their actions.