During the Crusades, Europeans encountered Ethiopians and Nubians running their own chapels at the Church of the Holy Sepulcher and it was likely then that ideas of "Prester John" changed from a location somewhere far to the east to somewhere on the other side of Muslim North Africa. A Venetian artist, Nicolò Brancaleon, also traveled to Ethiopia around 1480 and remained there until his death. We still have some religious icons ascribed to him and his Ethiopian students, adapting some early Renaissance styles to Ethiopia's style rooted in earlier Byzantine art.
The Jesuits and their European sponsors were happy to share people and tech with Ethiopia (though rarely, it seems, to the extent desired by Ethiopia's royalty). By the early 1600s, however, the Jesuits were getting pretty zealous about converting Ethiopia and were increasingly adversarial toward Coptic Ethiopians. Their attitudes also seem to be shifting, looking more dismissively at Ethiopian Christianity as a sign of backwardness and Catholicism as a way to bring Ethiopia up to European standards. We can see this especially in the writing of Fra Pedro Paez, a Jesuit missionary who wrote in 1622 a long description of Ethiopia with commentary on the writings of his predecessors. He lampoons some of his predecessors for having an overly-rosy and naive view of Ethiopia even as he himself gives in to some incredible flights of fancy nonetheless. He wasn't especially racist or negative toward Ethiopia as we would recognize it in later periods, but he was much more realistic. He was basically critiquing the earlier Prester John hype and stating that Ethiopia was just a kingdom like most any other and could be understood in normal terms, but simultaneously it could still be a powerful ally to Europe (and a proto-colony of sorts, most likely), especially if the Catholic church became the supreme ecclesiastic authority there. It's worth noting that basically every commentator on Ethiopia to this point noted with some respect and awe how devout Ethiopia was and we can only imagine how much Europeans allied with the Church must have salivated at the thought of bringing such a distant realm within their ecclesiastic control.
Although there were a few fascinating cases of Ethiopians visiting medieval Europe, such as pilgrims to Santiago de Compostela, for the most part, Ethiopia existed as a mostly fictionalized place in the minds of Europeans. The concept of "Ethiopia" was detached from the country of Ethiopia itself in two major ways. One, the "Ethiopian" became a stand-in literary trope for any Black person; and two, "Ethiopia" was often confused with India to the extent that it existed more as a fictionalized "other" than as a real place in the minds of many.
Leading medieval intellectuals believed in these stories, such as Thomas More, who was keenly interested in Prester John and his "Ethiopia", which More conflated with India. His views of Ethiopia were very much characterized by the same othering of "Ethiopians" as monstrous that have been discussed above. For example, in 1501 he wrote of seeing Katherine of Aragon arrive in London: