One of the things that I can say from an historian's perspective is that there is a lot of scholarship out there which has, at the very least, been informed by CRT. Land policy and law have a rich historical community and have been highly influential in environmental history. Check out Red Earth: Race and Agriculture in the Oklahoma Territory by Bonnie Lynn Sherow.
My specialty is Early Modern European history. So, my scholarship only very occasionally might touch upon something connected to CRT. But, if I, say, went and wrote an article that touched on discussions which included relevant contributions from CRT scholarship, I'd include them and perhaps some elaboration on why I chose their inclusion. The Mod put it well when they said that it comes down to the individual historian. I'd say that it also comes down to the individual historical project as well.
My hunch is that the answer to that question is likely going to come down to an individual historian and how they approach their work. That said, the work of the Combahee River Collective explicitly shaped the early development of women's history so there's some clear overlaps there for sure.
1. Acknowledging that racism is an invisible norm and white culture and Whiteness is the standard by which other races are measured.
It's helpful in the modern era to think of CRT as a field of legal scholarship that crosses different aspects of the law and serves as a way for legal scholars to think about the law, which in turn, informs how politicians and activists who study the scholarship think about the law and their efforts to change the law.
I think one point useful of clarification that in academy, CRT is a legal field that exerted interdisciplinary influence from mostly post-90s, and that not every race-related inquiry is not CRT, as now usually called. So in this sense, CRT ( and CLS - Critical legal studies ) was squarely in opposition to orthodox Marxist legal theory and historiography ( a case could be made one of the reasons for its decline), starting in the 70s, like the response to The Transformation of American law. If one is going down this geneaology of influences, which is a contentious and pain-ladden endeavour, french thought here, like structuralism / post-structuralism had a more tangible hand.