Perhaps the most telling evidence of contemporary attitudes comes from the Reorganised Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, or the RLDS Church, which was organised by Joseph Smith III, Joseph Jr and Emma's son. Joseph III and Emma both staunchly denied that the founding Prophet of Latter Day Saintism has ever practised polygamy and insisted it was an innovation of Brigham Young that distorted Joseph Jr's teachings (RLDS historians now overwhelmingly agree Joseph Jr did practice polygamy). The early RLDS Church made rejecting what they perceived as the sexual deviancy and immorality of Brigham Young's theology a core part of how they distinguished themselves from the LDS Church in Utah, along with innovations like the idea of Eternal Progression and the Godhead (the RLDS Church retained a pre-Nauvoo, Trinitarian theology). Despite the fact Brigham Young and others also married teenage girls many years younger than them, this point of critique is absent from Address to the Saints in Utah and California, an 1864 missionary text by the RLDS Church aimed at proving polygamy is morally wrong and that Young cannot be Joseph Jr's successor; Joseph III did not add it in when he revised the text in 1869, and it is absent from other criticisms of plural marriage by Saints who did not follow Brigham Young to Utah.
In Joseph Smith Jr's case the objections to the philosophy of marriage that he developed later in his preaching rarely focused on the age of the women involved but rather that there were women involved, plural. For one, polygamy was only ever practised in secret during Joseph's life-time and although rumours of it did escape Illinois and made it as far afield as European newspapers, the exact details of who was involved were not known and the vast majority of rank-and-file Latter Day Saints were able to comfortably reject the idea (the public announcement of polygamy as doctrine under Brigham Young seems to have played a major role in almost destroying the Latter Day Saint movement outside of the United States by disillusioning members; the number of British followers collapses in the 1850s). It was the fact that Joseph and his close associates were marrying multiple women, not that some of them were of quite a young age, that was deeply scandalising to both civil society and internal dissenters within the Mormon church. The way in which Joseph was most remarkable for his time in terms of the age of his partners was the fact he married a number of women older than him, including his first and 'primary' wife, Emma, who was about a year older at the time of their wedding.
D'oh, sorry, I didn't mean Virginia; I meant North Carolina (I had Virginia on the brain for other reasons). Arthur Dobbs was Governor of the North Carolina colony from 1754 to 1764, and in 1762 he married a 15 year old girl called Justina Davis.
> Now, Dobbs was a fascinating but ancient old relic who, in his 70s, had married a 15-year-old girl named Justina Davis. Dobbs was widely ridiculed for the fact his wife was younger than her step-children...