This is incredible, thank you so much. At the risk of asking too much - was there a place where women could co-mingle freely? Obviously I’m running off the assumption that there was almost no way to have “acceptable” co-mingling between white women and women of color, but maybe I’m wrong. I suppose what I’m asking is was there a place for women to openly socialize? And I’m very much expecting that to have a lot of nuance across socio-economic status.
I'm writing a sort of historical fiction YA novel that's a retelling/sequel of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow, except in this one Katrina Van Tassel - the wealthy heiress that everyone is after - is about to marry Ichabod when he gets dragged off by the headless horseman. She then becomes a monster hunter to get revenge, and the woods are filled with other ghosts from European folklore that are basically invading and damaging the natural land they live in. It's supposed to be a sort of supernatural examination on colonialism, as well as how people in privilege can benefit and harm others from it even if it isn't their intention.
That historical detail could actually add a lot of intrigue to the text and really flush out her character, make her more wiley. The idea of gathering information covertly under "social visits" could be WAY more interesting than just going to a bar and overhearing stuff.
But yeah, finding out information from a social visit is more interesting than just overhearing stuff at a bar. I'm reminded of a thing I read recently in a book on the Howe family of England - Caroline Howe had a male friend tell Benjamin Franklin (visiting at the time with demands from the pre-Revolutionary colonies) that she'd heard he was really good at chess and wanted to play him, so he'd better come over to her house as soon as he could. Franklin went "wtf" and didn't come, so the friend repeated the invitation. Howe was close friends with Lady Dartmouth, the wife of the American Secretary, who needed a way to reach out to Franklin without being very obviously colluding with the colonists to figure out a compromise. Caroline, along with Dr. John Fothergill (who was a friend of Franklin and also treating the Dartmouth's child) were able to be go-betweens for the two, passing along Franklin's "Hints, or Terms for a Durable Union", and resulting in the colonist-sympathetic Lord William Howe as a key commander of British forces in America.