So, in short, with the term technology, I tried to refer to two things. First, how it objectively functioned as a relatively new or recently popular form of social organisation and source of motivation. Second, that is how Ottomans came to know nationalism: not from romantic philosophy or poetry but from the defensive trenches. But, as I tried to make clear later during a comment, this certainly does not mean Turkish nationalism was invented in a calculated manner by some elites to save the state. There were such considerations before and after the war: Üç Tarz-ı Siyaset (1904) by Yusuf Akçura is an example, where the author considers Ottomanism, pan-Turkism, and pan-Islamism as alternative foreign policies and concludes the latter two are equally beneficial to save the Ottoman state. But even Akçura became a convinced Turkish nationalist, later on. If there were people that observed how much of an effective technology nationalism was as calmly as we historians can do now, and if they then decided to adopt this new technology without feeling any genuine affinity with Turkishness, we are yet to find many of them.
You suggested that Turkish nationalists might have seen nationalism as a "technology" which could then be utilized to accomplish particular goals. This might minimize or diminish truly felt national unity, etc. on the part of those (future) elites who supported Turkish nationalism. How can we trace the kind of reinforcing back-and-forth between truly held unifying beliefs and intentional "creation" of such ideals? In other words, how much was it picking and using a technology and how much truly perceived group identity?
You mentioned that Australians began to take on a self-image of being more invested in the Empire than the British, perhaps even more British than the British. This might also be visible in Whigish ideology in the American Revolution and u/tdwentzell noted that Canadians also saw themselves as more British than the British in one of his Q&A answers. My question is this, then, is this a precursor to independence movements? Is it a "necessary" component of forming a separate identity from the colonial metropole for colonies marked by significant emigration from the metropole?What role did it play in relations between Australia and Britain?
I wanted to discuss New Zealand, since I think that it's important to study Australasia as a whole group of connected societies in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.