This is fantastic, thanks I've read quite a bit about silk production, and I know the process for hemp production is similar to flax and nettle. I'm not surprised about cotton, given China's proximity to India, although I hadn't come across it previously as a Chinese fiber and would be quite interested in sources. But I thought ramie was an entirety modern fiber and am very surprised to learn otherwise. I always thought it wass wood-pulp based, but apparently it is a bast fiber like hemp, although the extraction process is even more ridiculous. Off to do research Woohoo! (Of course I'd appreciate any ramie sources you have.).
I'm like you, when encountering terms I don't know - looking up how-to videos and Wikipedia entries rather than just glossing over it. Thanks for giving me a new thing to learn about (ramie in historic China)!
Anyway, back to China. What is being described here is just a basic iron foundry which is using a small furnace to remelt pig iron ingots. These are still very common around the world and this is how eg cast iron manhole covers are made to this day. There would be a negligible reduction in carbon from this process and you are not creating steel (the fuel used to melt the iron is actually adding more carbon).
However the annealing technology that was described is pretty cool and they were using this to reduce the carbon content in the cast iron albeit only on the margin.
The key differentiator of the Bessemer or BOF process is that the metal is already melted, in a special container, and there is a very high pressure blast of air. The carbon in the metal burns in a very exothermic reaction and the iron "boils". So the already contained carbon is the fuel.
Did they perhaps mimic the process of creating coking coal? Sure. Obviously the lack of any description of their methodology of doing so is less than helpful, but the idea of treating coal like charcoal isn't exactly rocket science. The difference is that they lacked the proper raw materials to succeed in doing so. England had some of the best, low sulfur coal in the world, and that frankly was a huge factor in their success at developing proper metallurgical coke.