So, the term Gothic was applied to architecture not by contemporaries (as I might’ve implied), but by commentaries written later during the Renaissance. Due to the emphasis on the classical Greco-Roman civilizations, the arts tended to swing that way in an attempt to copy and build upon the ancient styles. Gothic architecture was therefore seen as ugly in comparison. However, Christopher Wren, the famous English architect who designed Saint Paul’s Cathedral in London, critiqued the term Gothic, and instead referred to these French cathedrals as being built in the “Saracen style”, since it reminded him of the complicated designs of Islamic architecture.
So, it was basically later architects and artists active during the Renaissance who applied this term since they tended to prefer emulating the more classical architectural styles from ancient Greece and Rome. Gothic architecture, however, experienced a bit of a revival during the nineteenth century, as seen by structures like the Parliament Building in Budapest, St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York, and the main campus buildings at the University of Chicago.
As the love of Classical art and architecture built up to an extreme at the end of the eighteenth century, however, people started to see a good side to not just the Middle Ages, but a wilder and less pared-down aesthetic in general, and "Gothic" came to take on a new connotation. For instance, Richard Hurd's 1762 Letters on Chivalry and Romance described Edmund Spenser's The Faerie Queen, written and published at the end of Queen Elizabeth I's reign, as a "Gothic poem". The English started to see the Gothic era as one characterized by, well, chivalry and romance, and particularly important to their country's history, taking it from a degenerate period to one with important figures to remember and a tradition worth reviving.
The modern gothic subculture began with gothic rock artists and fans, an offshoot of punk that started in 1979-80, and then went on to combine with the style of the New Romantics - like goth rock and punk, both a musical and a fashionable movement. Goths pulled from Victorian clothing, wearing black PVC corsets, velvet, lace, and high boots; they also added a lot of crosses in jewelry and tattoos, ripped fishnet stockings, and of course a heavy use of pale foundation and black makeup, none of which were really in use in the nineteenth century. Modern goths are a post-modern pastiche of the people involved in the literary Gothic movement, many steps removed from the original ancient Europeans.
Romanticism faded away from popularity, not to return again until members of the hippie counter culture in the late 1960s adopted long, flowing skirts, peasant blouses, and long hair on both men and women. This was soon co-opted by the fashion industry, leading to a more mainstream take in the early 1970s. (Think Laura Ashley and Gunne Sax, cravats and ascots, those men's shirts with ruffles down the front.) The New Romantics of the 1980s - Spandau Ballet, Boy George, et al. - then took this to an extreme, as did Vivienne Westwood in her 1981 "Pirate" collection, with "puffy shirts" and eighteenth-century-style jackets.