Assuming that there is a contract for labor in exchange for a stipend, it might not violate that contract to pay the stipend a day later than usual. It depends on what is actually contained in the contract. If the contract is partly made up of actions, rather than words, there is room for dispute about what is in the contract.
Even if a contract is being violated, there's an issue of where to seek a remedy. If the company is "essentially at home" in an American jurisdiction, some US court might have personal jurisdiction over the company, but the company could argue that an American court is forum non conveniens (not the best place to sue) because the operations and all witnesses are in the Congo. If you have to bring an action in the Congo, I don't know anything about that country's legal system.
"I don't know anything about that country's legal system" - it's very simple, there's no legal system in Congo. There's no hospital, no police, no post office, no courts, no schools. Society as we know it in the developed world, had ceased to exist. My employer at the time sent me there for 3 months and that was the only time in my life where I was a billionaire: 1 USD was worth 3 billion zaires (the local currency) until they decided to lope off a bunch of zeroes on the banknotes. If you want to know how we will live after a nuclear war, go to Congo.
I worked in Congo when it was ruled by Mobutu. I assume you are in "Congo-Kinshasa" and not "Congo-Brazza". I felt like I was living inside a Mad Max movie (a post-apocalyptic world, if you are too young to have seen the movie). There was no law then, and I assume it has not changed. I can write a book on what we had to endure while in that country.
However, lots of Congolese are deeply religious and you will find churches everywhere. If you really need to eat, go to a church and ask to speak with the priest or pastor. Do you speak fluent French or Linguala? Explain your situation and I am positive you will get fed. That will buy you some time to get the legal stuff sorted out.