as an aside, if you do get pepper spray, please get the ones that have the directional top so lessens the chance of accidentally spray yourself. Also, get pepper gel, its better than pepper spray, goes farther and lessens the chance of blowback.
Its legal to carry that, some the the self defense keychains have loops for your fingers which may be considered brass knuckles, which would be illegal.
I will say that most of the keychain things run a degree of risk because they are a weapon capable of inflicting serious bodily injury. The degree of force/danger you need to be confronted with to use them is moderately high. Pepper spray is almost always going to be a better option here.
. VA's state laws don't ban concealing a knife, they ban the concealment of particular types of knives.
Nearly every knife but basic pocket knives falls under the list of illegal to conceal in VA knives. The reason I specifically point that out despite her not having a knife, is because a knife of this style (fixed rigid blade) would be illegal to conceal so I want her to be aware should someone mistakenly think it’s a knife at first glance. I actually went through the law for this very extensively, reading into every specification of knives allowed or not and the way VA defines those styles, when first moving to the nova area because I own quite a few knives of many varieties, including fixed blade and wanted to ensure I didn’t get in trouble. I can’t speak to Maryland because I don’t live there or really ever travel there so Ive never looked into their laws.
Yes, this is fine. It’s illegal to conceal carry a knife in VA but this isn’t a knife. Also, steer clear of the stabby cat keychains bc those could constitute metal knuckles which are also illegal to conceal carry in VA. Pepper spray is fine as well. Both will raise flags in government buildings and at best, be confiscated so leave them behind before entering. (Courthouse, police stations, Capitol, House/Senate buildings, library of Congress, etc).