You're certainly taking a lot of liberties here. I continued to work the entire time after I contacted JB up until I felt I could work no longer and left to seek medical treatment. And the JB is not disputing that he got the message.
Although not in the disciplinary report, JB is not disputing that he got my messages. (I've learned over my years at the company to get EVERYTHING in writing, so a text message is necessary.) He stated that as soon as he got the text he threw his cigarette down, and came to get me relief but that I was "at the door" as soon as he got the text. In fact I waited almost 10 minutes after contacting JB before leaving.
Do you think that when you made the decision to leave after a 10 min wait that as call to JB would have helped the situation? I am diabetic and it is in ok control but I can get sick FAST. I knew at a point I needed the ER. A co-worker took me and we wasted no time and he called our SUPV on the way. It was an emergency and knew a text would not suffice in that situation. So as someone in HR, I feel a call stating a true emergency would've been the way to go after a text was sent. If my employee texted me about an emergency I would've called back and let them know I am aware and to go do what's needed.
I would contact your HR department and ask them to clarify the requirements for notifying them under the case of an emergency. Get something written that clearly states what your responsibilities are in notifying them that you have to leave immediately and follow that to the letter, then your supervisor will have no excuse To write you up next time.
"When the need for leave is not foreseeable, the employee must provide notice to the employer as soon as practicable under the facts and circumstances of the particular case. Absent unusual circumstances, employees must comply with the employer’s usual and customary notice and procedural requirements for requesting leave.".
. That is by definition not an emergency, and FMLA is not for medical emergencies in any case. It is for ongoing medical conditions or overnight medical absences.