Japanese trade was essential to intra-Asiatic trade for the VOC for a simple reason: Japan was the main exporter of silver in Asia in the 17th century, and silver was about the only thing that could get the Europeans coveted access to China, which they desired.
The trade was certainly so valuable for the VOC that even after cap/ban on precious metals and ships-per-year they still continued to try to get everything they could to and from Japan while atempting to negotiate more favourable terms. So much so that when Edo limited the VOC to two ships per year, the VOC changed their entire Southeast Asia shipping schedule so they can send two of their largest ships directly from Bavaria to Nagasaki and back. They made money mainly by selling silk, sugar, sappanwood, pepper and spices, and other exotic items into Japan for gold and silver and, after those were limited or banned by Edo, buying camphor and especially copper for resale in Asia and Europe.
Germany took Qingdao in 1898, after China has just been decisively defeated in the First Sino-Japanese War, with China's main modernized forces destroyed by Japan in the process. So at that point in time Japan was a far larger military power in East Asia than China.
As further proof of this, the Japanese needed to look no further than their longstanding neighbour and rival: China. The First Opium War had just been concluded, in which a mere handful of "western barbarians" (in this case the British) had beaten the Celestial Empire, and forced the Qing government in Peking to submit to their demands for greater trade rights. Interestingly, as a result of the British gunboats demonstrating their superior firepower over Chinese coastal structures, the bakufu in Kyoto relaxed their own "shoot first; ask questions later" restrictions from 1825. When Commodore Perry landed in Edo bay in July 1853 with four "black ships", with a harsh warning to the Tokugawa government:
So there we have it then. The Japanese were not victim to European colonisation in the "subjugate, conquer, control" sense that they had carried out elsewhere in the world, but they most definitely were the victims of a "semi-colonial" reduction in status and sovereignty as a result of their re-opening to the world in the 1850s. Though there had been European efforts from before and even during the early 19th century to "enter" Japan, the isolationist policies of the Tokugawa bakufu denied any such entrance (except to the Dutch, and then in a very limited sense). Feel free to ask any further questions as you see fit on this interesting bit of the past, and hope the response helps.