Are you referring to the the Macedonian Renaissance period here (867–1056)? If so, wasn't this period filled with (re)conquests of formerly lost territory? Crete, Cyprus, much of Mesopotamia, and Bulgaria were all reconquered, and I get the sense there was quite a bit of loot involved from that.
You said you have a good sense that there was quite a bit of loot from Crete, Cyprus, Mesopotamia and Bulgaria. What sources are you referring to?
Let's start with early Roman state's relationship to it's military. Rome undoubtedly possessed one of the greatest conquest armies of all time. The Roman state's ability to field large armies with good discipline, led by competent commanders, who could win pitched battles and sieges consistently, enabled an incredible amount of expansion throughout the Republican period. This, coupled with a ruling apparatus focused on improving Rome's position, created a state with the will and ability to expand quickly. The Roman Republic's light touch governing style was extremely effective at winning over local elites after the conquest. The Roman state demanded very little of local elites post-conquest while the Roman system was extremely politically, culturally, and economically desirable to those local elites. This contrasts sharply with the later Roman or Byzantine state. Even where the Byzantines were successful in their conquests, they were not able to turn these into long term gains. In part, high taxes and religious conversions were not appreciated by the common folk, and Byzantine administration chafed local elites. Regardless of all the reasoning, the outcome is clear: the Roman state during the Republic and Principate was more willing and able to conquer territory than during the later Byzantine period.
While I am fully aware of all the Byzantine conquests during the middle Byzantine period, comparing their economic benefit to that of the early Roman conquests is really no contest. Basil II's conquest of Bulgaria was one of the largest successful conquests of the Byzantine empire. However, it took 32 years to defeat and came at great expense to the state. No great plunder is reported in the sources, even the captured prisoners of the battle of Kleidon were blinded and sent on their way rather than being sold into slavery at the benefit of soldiers or state. The Bulgarians were an incredibly difficult adversary for the Byzantines to overcome, but were not rich by any means. While the conquest of Cilicia and the Hamdanid emirate can be considered easier and more lucrative than the Bulgarian campaigns, the sources don't mention much in the way of loot either.
I know this probably sounds like a simple question but despite all we know about the Roman army, it's something we may never be able to fully explain.
Something else that has become more clear in my head the more I research Rome's military evolution is the concept of momentum. In the early Roman periods, the Roman military was better than their neighbors, they won much more than they lost. Victories brought glory and wealth to the Roman ruling class but also to the soldiers themselves who were allowed to take slaves and plunder. There was also a common expectation that after a general's campaigns were finished, the general would find land for his soldiers to settle on. This didn't always happen and this was eventually codified into a more formal x years or service for x plot of land etc. etc. but the point is that early Roman conquests were often an extremely lucrative affair for those on the Roman side. This lead to more individuals wanting to go on campaign and wanting to win. This desire for and expectation of victory probably affected the morale of the soldiers, while also making them more receptive to incredibly harsh discipline as well as vigorous training. The willingness of Roman soldiers, who were often farmers in the Republican period, to submit themselves to absolutely ludicrous punishments is honestly incredible to me. It would be one thing if these were career soldiers, but they weren't. Why a legion would submit to a decimation, where one in every ten legionaries is beaten to death by his comrades is beyond me. Apparently this type of discipline was also beyond the later Roman soldiers, who's loyalty, discipline, and morale always seemed to be hanging by a thread. For example, Gaius Marius, a general of the Roman Republic, frequently had his soldiers march under full load and build and fortify camps even when there was no reason to. He also frequently forbade the use of a baggage train, forcing the soldiers to carry all of their equipment and provisions themselves. Despite any grumbling there might have been, Marius had an extremely successful military career. This is contrary to the Byzantine Emperor Maurice, one of the greatest generals of the Byzantine period, who was murdered by his men for commanding them to spend a winter on the North side of the Danube river. Coming back to momentum, the Roman state found itself harder and harder pressed to pay all the soldiers needed to protect its increasingly massive territory. As Roman conquests stopped, potential adversaries became bolder and increased the size and frequency of their offensives into the Empire. More soldiers were needed to defend against these incursions, but the soldiers needed to be paid more as they weren't supplementing their income with plunder. At the same time, the state had less money because fewer offensive campaigns meant less plunder for the state and an inevitable increase in taxes to fund the shortcomings. I hope you can see where this cycle leads and it's not a good place. While I can't prove this, it does seem like the late Roman state was not financially stable when it actually had to pay a large army, and didn't have plunder to pad the state's revenue to keep taxes low. As I mentioned already, the Roman military advantage eroded over time. This led to more defeats and left the state with a desperate need to find soldiers who didn't want to serve. This got so bad under Diocletian that it seems some men were cutting off their thumbs to avoid military service. It wasn't until the middle Byzantine period that the Romans figured out how to make a state capable of defending itself without relying on offensive conquests to maintain the military. The combination of the late Roman and Byzantine state's desperation for soldiers, and the lack of desire (whether this is cultural, religious, economic or something else is up to debate) of men to serve created compromises in discipline, training, morale and loyalty. All of these lead to a less effective (in comparison to its contemporary adversaries, I refuse to get into a Julius Caesar vs Belisarius argument) Roman fighting force that was more expensive than the earlier version.