That is exactly how it works. Sometimes the settlement negotiation process includes some accommodation for that cost, such that the total settlement is closer to $15k (leaving $10k to cover the $10k medical bill and $5k for the lawyer's fees), but at the end of the day, the settlement is whatever they work out, and the lawyer will take the agreed-upon share of it.
He's free to negotiate, but 30% is pretty standard for contingency agreements. The main alternative is paying the lawyer's hourly rate, which may work out to being more than 30% of the settlement or judgment if the process drags on, and absolutely will be more than a contingency agreement will cost if there is no payout.
If the case is settled before filing a lawsuit, or before trial the contingency fee is lower, it could be 25/30/40 for instance for those three cases. You can ask for the contingency fee to be part of the settlement, and in some states these attorney fees would be part of a judgement. So the damages would be $10k+ legal fees. If you have health insurance at most you would pay your deductible and copay even if you recover nothing. So in this case you could have $2000 due for deductible and copays on a $10k bill. And from a settlement or judgement you will usually share in the recovery proportionally with the insurance co. If you got back $10k from the other party and the contingency was 30%, $3k to your lawyer, $7k to you then 80% of that $7k would go to the health insurance co and you would get $700 back, you are only out of pocket $600. If your state has a "made whole" policy like CA your insurance company doesn't recover anything until you are made whole, so you get back your deductible. In some states like MI the medical damages are the "full bill" medical costs, but you are only responsible for paying the insurance negotiated rate. So the damages might be $20k because that is what the hospital billed for even though the insurance co negotiated it down to $10k. Several states are "no-fault" for car accidents, so basically you go through your own insurance, and most of these include medpay insurance. You can purchase optional medpay insurance in other states. Generally there are no deductibles or copays for medpay. If you have short term disability insurance it would pay out if you are injured and miss work.
On the other side there are some situations you could be out of pocket more than 1/3rd. If there is shared fault, like you were both negligent that will reduce what you are awarded. In some states like NC if you contributed even 1% you are barred from recovery. There are certain costs like court filing fees you may have to pay upfront even with a contingency fee. Some of these would not be recoverable, like for expert testimony that was gathered but not presented at trial before reaching a settlement(but most of them are, like the filing fee usually is). You may need further physical therapy or have medical bills that are not adequately calculated. If the at fault party is broke and has insurance with low limits or no insurance(and you don't have uninsured motorist bodily injury insurance) you may not recover what is owed.
"then 80% of that $7k would go to the health insurance co" ... why is it only 80%, they don't get to recover the entire $8000 they paid out for medical expenses, from the vehicle insurance settlement? Where does 80% come from?
There was some additional stuff about "legal fees" in that engagement contract I saw, but I really wasn't quite clear on that part... it SEEMED like it said the lawyer would get specially designated "legal fees" ON TOP of the contingency fee, guess I better look at that part again!