The Vedas are particularly famous at doing what you just said - conveying information through purely oral transmission for centuries without distortion. One way this was achieved, of course, was by closely guarding who could hear the knowledge at all, and so on. I think it's an interesting counterfactual to how European nationalism was constructed through the printing press.
This is definitely interesting, I suppose my knee jerk response here is that it would be a case of nationalism with nationalists (or even nation without nationalism). The extension of citizenship could fill the role of "explicit" nation building, but it is still striking that the texts, like the Aeneid, are pretty explicitly not pan-Italian. It would represent a pretty significant lag between ideology and political reality!
However, no matter how far you want to push this I think you cannot truly call this this signs of Roman nationalism, not just because of its transparent artificiality, but also because it came without anything resembling a nationalist political program. Pan Tadeusz for example, is not just a poem, it is also a call to action to make the Polish nation a political reality. To the extent the Aeneid has a political program it is for an imperium sine fine/power without limit, whatever that means. To the extent that Rome had a nationalism, it is one devoid of political vision, and is therefore not really nationalism at all.
The other is that, I suspect, most of them would not agree that Romans thought, and acted, in ways consistent with modern conceptions of 'nationalistic behaviour.' This is not to say that Romans did not demonstrate behaviours that we would today associate with nationalism – a deep chauvinism, for example, or the indulgence in derogatory stereotypes about other communities, or a certain vainglorious pride on one’s own community. But the contexts, meanings, and structures of those behaviours were so radically different that simply calling it 'nationalism' doesn't seem right. Other scholars are better positioned than me to argue about the etic dimensions of the question of ‘do Roman attitudes to their community look to us like modern nationalism,’ though I think most of them would say ‘not really.’ But the emic dimension is a certain ‘no,’ not only in that they imagined their communities using different terms and concepts, but in that the moral and reputational resonances of those concepts had simply not accumulated in the distinctive and contingent patterns that define modern ‘nationalisms’.
I'll add on to this (which I agree with) because I think there are some illustrative features of Roman identity that come very close to modern nationalism but lack certain crucial features which means that no matter how far you want to push it does not quite fit. In particular, during the Augustan period there were a number of programs, both intellectual and very public, that attempted to define the Roman people and uncover their origins. The most famous of these is the Aeneid, which takes the basic structure and setting of the Homeric epics and creates something quite new, an ethical fashioning of the origins of the Romans a people. Whether or not it is a nationalist or nationalistic text, it certainly works well enough as one that many European nationalists attempted to create their own equivalent (with, uh, varying success). Likewise, this is when Livy took the works of the annalists and fashioned them into a history which he described as "writing in full the matters of the Roman people [res populi Romani] from the origins [primordio] of the city".
This went beyond literature, one example I like to give is the Forum of Augustus, which was winged by two lines of statues, one of which consisted of great heroes of the Republic, one of which traced the lineage of the Julian family. This sort of public, artistic display of history is not necessarily nationalist, but is certainly the sort of thing nationalists do.