It's highly suspect as to whether he had a choice. Ukraine had him. He did an interview for them, good PR for Ukraine. Then suddenly he's in Wagner's hands when the last his family had heard was he was comfortably sitting the war out in a PoW camp. Supposedly he 'volunteered' to be part of a PoW exchange.
When's the cutoff date for 'now'? Russian (and Ukrainian) authors seem fairly distributed amongst the nominees and winners of the Nobel Prize for Literature. Last year a Russian won the Nobel Peace Prize.
Prosecutor: "OBJECTION HEARSAY The defendant has previously admitted that they did not hang around after their so called 'crime'. It would be impossible for them to know whether they killed the civilian or not!".
This. We should all recognize that Ukraine is not entirely innocent, and have done things that violate international law.
Ukrainian soldiers aren't the ones going around raping, torturing, and killing Russian women and children, stealing them away from their home in an effort to erase their cultural identity, and targeting civilian structures. Russia's military is full of barbaric monkeys stuck in their own backwards way of thinking. It sucks, but the ones who knew what they were in for brought it on themselves, thought I feel sorry for the ones who were duped into fighting. Ukraine has committed war crimes, yes, but they pale in comparison to the scale of brutality and atrocities left behind by the Russian army.
To believe that no one that no war crime has been committed by anyone serving in the Ukrainian named forces is quite naive. In a war on this scale, it will have happened.
I am in no way saying what Ukraine and Russia have done is in any way comparable. There are clear actions by Russia like long attacks with long-distance missiles on civilians that are a clear violation that kills civilians that have to be approved from the top, or a lease nothing has been done to stop because it happens time after time.
Just a single person needs to have beaten up a POW for a Ukrainian war crime to have happened. I would be extremely surprised if that never happen. I would also say that it is something understandable if, for example, the POW is from a group that just killed you buddy.
But to say the Ukrainian side has not committed any war crimes is naive. Absolute statements are problematic because they are very seldom correct. Ukraine's behavior has been very good but not perfect, but we are all humans and will not always perform perfectly.