Roman slaves only held personal property (peculium) by their master's sufferance. The nature and value of this property varied with the nature of the slave's duties; herdsmen, for example, might "own" a few of the cows they tended. But the only slaves who could become anything like wealthy were the relatively privileged minority who worked in cities, and in close association with their masters.
Masters often sought to motivate highly-skilled slaves by promising them their freedom, either at a certain age or once they had accumulated sufficient funds. Slaves could only accumulate said funds (their peculium) at the master's sufferance; but many masters understood that it was worth allowing slaves to have their own savings, since slaves working towards freedom tended to work much harder than those with no hope.
Masters often allowed enslaved men and women to control their own money (peculium) as a form of motivation: a slave who knew that he would be allowed to purchase his freedom was likely to work harder than a slave who saw no hope.
Yes, slaves had some legal recourse if the master made a contract with them - but my point was that the peculium always existed in the first place by the master's sufferance, and was allowed to grow basically as a motivational measure.
I believe this was clearly answered in the top-level post of this thread: slaves working toward eventual freedom were far more productive than slaves without hope, thus Roman slaveowners made more from not seizing their slaves' savings than from doing so. No explicit legal protection was necessary to prevent a slaveowner from acting against their own best interest, notwithstanding that those interests happened to coincide with the interests of their slaves.
There is much literature on the 'apparent slave' as well, a free person who pretends to be a slave so that he can enjoy the various benefits of slavery inasmuch as he thinks they outweigh being free and more economically exposed.
A follow up question springing on your drawing in of the American slave trade here; In the US, slavery was at least partly justified by an ideology that viewed Africans and their descendants as being of an inferior race, that slavery was the only way they could be civilised by their betters, that they were not capable of more etc. What was the ideology that underpinned Roman slavery?
I suppose I am thinking as well in particular to "uncivilised" or rivial peoples that the Romans may have taken as slaves during war, for example.
Roman slaves, of course, seldom became rich (though they might be put in charge of valuable property - including other slaves - in the interests of the master's enterprises). It was freedmen - former slaves - who accumulated really tempting fortunes. One thinks of Trimalchio, the freedman in Petronius' Satyricon who is so rich that he has hundreds of his own slaves, and only knows a tenth of them by sight. Or of the emperor Claudius' freedmen, who became some of the wealthiest men in Roman history. Why didn't masters swoop in and claim the riches of their former slaves?
Masters did have a legal claim on their freedmen’s wealth, in the sense that they (or their heirs) usually had to be included in their former slaves’ wills. Roman slaves could not make wills; but freedmen were citizens, and had the right - within certain limits - to pass wealth on to their heirs. The property of a freedman who died intestate automatically devolved to his master (or master’s heirs). Freedmen who made wills still had to leave half their property to their former masters if they had no natural heirs; and even if they had children, only three or more entitled them to leave their masters out entirely.
Some freedmen did leave their master's native cities, effectively removing themselves from his influence (though if they became really wealthy, agents of their former master or his heirs might still take the trouble to track them down). Most freedmen, however, found it advantageous to remain in their former master's social orbit. A master was (within certain bounds) likely to promote his freedman's social and economic interests; and if a freedman was reduced to dire straits, he could rely on his master as a last resort.
But although they maintained rights over their former slaves’ estates in death, and might demand valuable services from them in life, former masters were not motivated to openly pillage the wealth of freedmen who made it big (though freedmen were expected to help masters who had fallen on hard times). The pseudo-familial terms on which their relationship was conceived militated against blatant seizure of wealth. To most masters, in any case, a wealthy freedman was valuable in his own right - an advertisement and extension of the master himself. Social capital, in short, usually mattered more.