From wikipedia Ukraine aid section, I found out Ukraine has received 440+ tanks mainly from Czech Republic and Poland. Even if you consider that all captured tanks might not be recoverable or turned into spare parts and that not all losses are on oryx, it would still seem that Ukraine has more tanks now than what it started with.
These tanks will at most cover Ukrainian loses for maybe a quarter or two, considering incoming Russian offensive. Sorry but to gain initiative on the battlefield they'll need at least 3-4x more. This number will just allow them to not lose. Avoiding the fact that the training they'll get for these western tanks is going to be basic at best, and additionally parts for Leopards 2A4 are not produced anymore.
I'm not trying to say they will get annihilated tommorow if they won't get 1000 tanks by tomorrow morning. I'm just trying to say that West giving out 300 western tanks (in reality it's less) that will be ready in summer, doesn't mean they are gonna just take Crimea.
At current supplies where 20 tanks donation from a singular country gets praised? Russians have the advantage. Even though their loses are considerably bigger, they supply 100-150 tanks a month, since they switched to a wartime production. Sure they are worse than Leopards. But so what, they aren't good enough to make a considerable difference. Especially since Ukrainian staff will get barebone training. Normal soldier needs 1 year of training to use them - they'll get 3-5 months at best.
You're right, but whats your conclusion? They having a little bit more tanks than they previously started with means they can easily overthrow Russia? You are aware that there are literal battalions just waiting doing nothing in Ukraine (them being just infantry is worthless), because there aren't enough tanks and other military vehicles, right?
I wrote this elsewhere but I honestly cannot comprehend the amount of fear Russian tankers and infantry will have defending against a spring offensive composed of combined-arms NATO-equipped troops. First hitting with precision artillery like HIMARs and excaliburs, then barrages of traditional artillery. Backed by western intelligence... Led by Challengers, Leopards, Abrams tanks that dwarf their tin cans, supported by Bradleys, strykers, etc. and infantry... With heavy air-defense on the back line. All with a strong moral imperative to defend and take back their land and protect their own families.