The existence of cultural/linguistic regions with a sense of shared identity is ancient one, and this is a pretty solid definition for a "nation".
Let us define a nation as a group of people bound together by shared culture and language as you have done. I will add a further condition. Members of a nation should recognise and (tacitly or explicitly) agree that they are members of the nation. That is, there must be some things in common, an awareness of these things, and an attitude that confirms that for individuals in question these things had some importance in terms of the way they categorised people. Your question, therefore, boils down to two things. First, were there common cultural and linguistic links between people? The answer is obviously yes. Second, were people aware of such links, and did they find these significant enough to imagine themselves as belonging to a category that excludes others that do not share these bonds? The answer is less obvious now but I think it is, again, yes. I will try to show how this is so by looking at the Ancient Greek example.
I have used ancient Greece as an example but this certainly does not mean that being a pre-modern nation was limited to them. There is an example from the 15th-16th century Ottoman chronicler Mehmed Neşri Efendi, who has Murad I (r. 1362-1389) threaten the Serbians in the following way: "Hopefully I shall show them Turkish manliness/courage (erlik in Turkish)". If Neşri thought this was possible for Murad I to say this, then it certainly was possible to think this way in his own lifetime. That there existed a people called Turks and that they possessed a particular manliness/courage was an idea at least one individual held centuries before the modern nation-states emerged.
I am afraid Italy may be a notoriously difficult example. Italians still have a higher degree of conflict between more local identities (being Southern vs Northern, even being Sicilian versus Calabrian) than in some other countries. But, in general, what happened in the 19th century seems to me to be a shift in the hierarchy of identities. Many different types of identities existed before then too, including nations, religious identities, local identities... For some reason, belonging to the nation became the dominant form of identity from the 19th century onwards. This went hand in hand with nationalism, the emergence of nation-states, and division of geography among clearly bounded national groups (ethnic cleansing of others etc.) Now, the likes of Anderson think the states created the nations precisely because the emergence of this full-blown nationalism coincides with the nation-states as we understand them today. But, as I have argued above, nations did exist before modern states\.\ So I strongly doubt that some chaps in the Foreign Ministry decided to come up with a firmer basis upon which to build their state and created nations. It seems much more plausible to say that people already had some idea of being a nation (might be more or less prevalent and clear depending on place and time). Some state officials then seized the opportunity in a pragmatic sense, I agree, but some must have been (and indeed were) genuine nationalists too. I hardly think someone like Mustafa Kemal Atatürk from Turkey would think he was creating Turks from the scratch. He rather thought the Turks existed but due to certain factors (a false understanding of religion and nationality, a cosmopolitan Ottoman identity imposed from above) it became contaminated, as it were, and he was solidifying it and returning it to the glory of the past.