Well sure to her backers it was well planned out. To her it was purely for vanity as there is no way in her right mind she could have thought she had a chance at winning.
What does that have to do with anything? It's not like the current gov was running. A third candidate will always be a spoiler until ranked choice voting is adopted.
YES, with Ranked Choice Voting people will be able to vote for whoever and everyone (ranked) they please without risking the least-liked-by-everyone candidate winning. With RCV, election outcomes would actually represent what everyone most agrees with - no more extremism or sworn party loyalty because with RCV we can constructively vote for whoever the heck we want. Our votes get the most mileage with RCV. All of this would immeasurably better our democracy.
This was the most deliberate sabotaging by Phil Knight too. He initially backed and heavily funded the Independent candidate (pulling away Democratic votes) before suddenly weeks before the election having a ‘change of heart’ and backing and heavily funding the Republican candidate. It’s so fucked that rich people can just do this. Voting Independent wouldn’t be a bad thing if Oregon and America had Ranked Choice Voting. Unfortunately we do yet, and therefore if you don’t vote Republican or Democrat currently, you’re increasing the odds of the worst and least-liked candidate winning.
I dunno, our current democrat is the most unpopular governor in the USA at the moment, and the republican primary was very contentious, with many republican voters angry with the eventual candidate. I can imagine Betsy thinking "I'll be the next Ross Perot, and capture the hearts and minds of the people!".
Dumped millions into the R candidate and dumped millions into the spoiler. I'm guessing it probably bit him in the ass and his spoiler siphoned more votes from the R than the winning D candidate.
I will tell you that we were freaking out in the last month before the election thinking we were going to be ratfucked by Phil Knight and end up with a R Governor. Nice job, voters.