Quote from the book: "at como, the facists got hold of many of the Opposition and painted their faces in three colors. Amongst the persons who suffered this vile treatment were the proprietors of a clock factory at monte olimpino.." by gaetano salvemini, the fascist dictatorship in Italy.
All of this was great. That is why I was sort of shocked I read that in a slightly dated textbook [early 2000s] because I had never heard that claim before. Especially in New York where we often go a lot into the rise of facism and the rise of communism and the eventual clash of cultures. I'll inform my colleagues students of this find. Thank you.
Thanks. I believe I can answer it - with one premise: that I need to check that specific work of Salvemini at the library to see whether the episode is included within the Italian edition or not.
As is, I would say that I am not aware of any widespread or systematic use of face paint for political reasons in Fascist Italy (I could have missed that, but...). Anyways, if the claim has a basis, I'd be the first one who wants to know more about it.
Such episodes were more prominent in the recently annexed regions, where significant German, Slovene and Croat minorities existed, and where consequently the socialist "internationalist" propaganda could more easily took the appearance of the old "anti-national", "defeatist" connivance with the enemy of the nation. In Trieste especially the identification of socialist and "Slav" was an almost matter of fact consequence of the original formation experience of the fascist squads - indeed, the first violent actions had been directed at Yugoslav organizations, which also carried a more or less deserved "socialist-subversive" connotation. From there, the tradition of violently imposing the observance of national symbols carried over to the rest of the Country and came to constitute a part of the ideological legacy, symbols, chants and rituals of the various fascist squads.
During the period of their affirmation during the early 1920s, fascists had made the defense and protection of the nation against the "anti-national" assault of the "Italian Bolsheviks" into a central element of their political identity. The refusal of socialist administrations to hoist the tricolore from the city hall was frequently cited as the act of defiance against the nation motivating the fascist retaliation. Known socialists - or "anti-nationals" - were halted in the streets, or taken from their residence, being forced to make impromptu patriotic displays, from repeating the cry of viva l'Italia!, to the sing of war anthems.