Critical to all of this was that basically every one of the powers directly involved in the Tibetan struggle actually had some internal divisions or disagreements: the Khoshuts between those who sought a reconquest of Tibet and those who opposed it; the Zunghars between those who supported a rival faction within the Lhasa Gelug establishment, and those who supported a rival faction against it; the Tibetans between a variety of positions, including, evidently, quite an active anti-Zunghar contingent. The one major exception was the Qing, where the Bannermen who were assigned as generals, and indeed many non-Banner Han Chinese officers and officials, broadly remained loyal to the emperor. As Mark Elliott notes in his book The Manchu Way, while the Banners were not atypical in their status as an elevated 'caste'-like military-administrative body, they were atypical in that they never really formed a particularly strong special interest group, at least not in opposition to imperial policy, in the way that, say, the Egyptian Mamluks or Ottoman Janissaries did. There were of course instances of friction during the Qing campaigns, including the campaigns around Hami in the 1710s and the final campaigns against Galdan after Jao Modo, where on more than a few occasions Qing generals refused to advance without stockpiling more supplies. But it is notable that such instances were owing to the generals' perception of their armies' logistical limits, not disagreements of the underlying policy – in other words, the emperor's specific orders were being disobeyed in pursuit of the emperor's general interests.
3. Qing intervention was usually in reaction to some ongoing intra-Mongol conflict, so they almost always entered a situation with an ally.
during the later Jin/early Qing era, it's even more so than a diplomatic game - the Manchus considered the Mongols an ally, to the point of frequent marriage between Manchu and Mongol nobilities up to and including the Qing Emperors themselves. A lot of this was probably because the Mongols were strategically "useful", tho at the same time I wouldn't be surprised if there were cultural aspects as well - that the Manchus consider themselves more culturally similar to the Mongols than the Han Chinese, who to the Manchus were simply conquered/colonized subjects.
Despite the Qing's foreign origin, as in China they did manage to project a sense of legitimacy among the Mongols, both through genuine cultivation of good relations through the patronage of religious institutions and more pragmatic, subtle manipulations. More importantly, though, the Qing were driven to extend control over Mongolia in order to maintain peace in the region, aware of the risks inherent in allowing a contest of strenh that would culminate in the survival and hegemony of the fittest tribe. This in turn was helped by a growing war-weariness among the Mongols, who saw not only the invasion of the Zunghars and their Gelug proselytisation, but also the ongoing internecine conflicts across the Mongol world, as pointlessly destructive, and therefore welcomed the stability offered by Manchu hegemony.