I have, for years, given a very open-ended historical research paper assignment (students are free to choose any topic they want within certain broad parameters). I tell them to choose whatever they find interesting. The most common response: "I don't know enough about history to find anything interesting.".
But here's the thing. That does not matter to a 9 year old kid watching Horrible Histories before school. What 9 year old even cares about comparisons between Roman and British imperialism? Horrible Histories exists to combine entertainment with a basic grasp of history, specifically the aspects of history which children tend to like. That means kings and queens, lots of blood, and poop jokes. They exist to entertain first, and educate second. It's worked - Terry Deary is probably one of the most influential historians around, with his books having sold tens of millions of copies, which has been an entire generation's introduction to history. Some of these children grow up keeping these simplifications and errors in their head, but frankly if a 9 year old has the same views when they're 18 then that's a failure of the education system, not Terry Deary.
But YouTube content isn't aimed at just kids, and even if it is there is no guarantee whatsoever that kids are the only people consuming that information. On YouTube, it's mostly teens and young adults watching this stuff, and there exists the problem. Teens and young adults know better, and can handle more nuance without compromising entertainment. I think what a lot of historians find frustrating with these sorts of videos is that they can be better researched than they are. Oversimplified's 'War of the Bucket' video is, I think, their best one, and a great example of entertainment and education working well together. Most of it is about the Investiture Controversy and - and I can't believe I'm saying this - it does a better job of explaining the basics than the actual professor who first taught it to me, who made the mistake of assuming some prior knowledge of the Middle Ages, which I didn't have. It's also the video where he worked with a historian using original sources and corrected a common misunderstanding. But then /u/MySkinsRedditAcct has gone into the problems of their French Revolution videos, which showcase how keeping things entertaining can lead to laziness in research and perpetuating misconceptions because they're funnier than the truth.
Similarly a lot of the factual inaccuracies I noticed in OverSimplified's French Revolution series made me seriously wonder where they got their information. A great example is one I mentioned above- the creator of the Guillotine. If I Google "who created the Guillotine", Google does me dirty and pulls up Dr. Guillotine himself. However even a quick read of the Wikipedia article- definitely not the Gold Standard of history but a good jumping off point- tells the reader that Guillotin only proposed that all executions took place in the same humane method, and that Antoine Louis created the prototype Guillotine. If Wikipedia is more reliable than the history you're putting out, you've gone wrong.