Trying to authenticate this object yourself would not be easy and likely not accurate. I would look up universities in your area with anthropology departments and see if any have an archaeologist who specializes in the Aztec period. Not all will, so it may take some searching. Take well lit photos of the object with some sort of scale (something like a pencil or pen would work if you don't have a ruler) and the letter. You should be able to email the photos to the archaeologist you have found explaining the circumstances and asking for help authenticating the object. Make sure to indicate it is something you inherited and are looking to see if it is authentic to figure out what to do with it because archaeologists are likely to be suspicious of artifact trafficking and looters. Honestly, it is very likely the artifact, if authentic, was brought into the country illegally if found in the 1980s and you don't live in Mexico. Even if you live in Mexico, there is a good chance it was sold illegally. You'd probably be better off legally and morally if it is an imitation. Not everyone will reply, both due to time constraints and due to the possibly illegality of the object, so it might be a good idea to email a few different people.
Source: I'm an archaeology grad student at a university who has received many such emails and social media messages requesting artifact identifications. However, I do not do anything at all related to the Aztec period so can't help here specifically.
If the item is really from the 12th century and found in Teotihuacán then it is not, by definition, Aztec. Teotihuacán had its own civilazation (its exact ethnic identitity is still debated) and was a vast multicultural city so the artefact could be any number of cultures such as Maya (if you need it to be from a sexy well known mesoamerican culture!) but not Aztec, they are a more recent culture than that. But really, who identified it in the first place?
But what do I know about the state of mesoamerican Archeology in the early 90s (Answer; next to nothing!). And the Aztec were aware of the ruins, they're the one who named it Teotihuacán and for all I know it's possible the item found by your uncle was lost by an Aztec interloper at a more recent date after the fall of Teotihuacán and that's what this King-Shcuman meant.
If you are looking for expert identification, I would contact the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia.