I did indeed discuss the roots of modern popular music elsewhere, including . It’s funny, media depictions of music in the 18th and 19th centuries are dominated by the classical tradition, in the same way that it’s now a cliche that ‘All Along The Watchtower’ is the music behind footage of Americans in Vietnam in late sixties (even though it was only a smallish hit at the time and servicemen during the era predominantly listened to regular pop music). I imagine it’s half because the upper classes are very well-represented in media focusing on those times, which plays a role in leading to the impression that this was the music of the era, rather than a music with connotations of specific milieu. I also think that folk music doesn’t connote era quite as specifically as classical music in such media, what with it being meant to be timeless (as problematic as that assumption actually is).
If by "the music we have now," you mean, like, popular music, then the roots are numerous and lay largely outside the classical realm. /u/hillsonghoods can (and probably already has elsewhere) provide more detail about this history, but the cliffs notes version is that it came from a mixture of musical practices developed by former slaves in the US, anglo saxon balladry, social dancing, musical theater, and so on. Only the last of these - the "great american songbook" as developed through decades of Broadway and movie musicals - has any semblance of a connection to the classical tradition (by way of operetta).
The difficulty with answering this question is that it conflates a whole host of different traditions together, many of which did not have much of anything to do with one another. Classical music evolved, first, primarily through the religious practices of European Christians (starting ca. 9th century AD), and then moving to a largely secular zone of courtly theater and entertainment around 1600, before dipping slightly into upper Bourgiouse territory around 1800, where it has largely remained to this day. Classical music didnt really evolve into "the music we have now," unless by "the music we have now," you mean, like, . Classical music has pretty much always been music for white Christian elites.
So, while I think it's a mistake to boil down "everything we see today" to a single tradition (there are many intermingling traditions pressing music in various different ways. Where does the Moog Synth and the 808 come in, for example? Certainly I don't think these important technological influences on modern music come in a direct way from the blues tradition), I do think you've uncovered a nugget of historical interest here. If I were you, I'd repost the question and put it in the form of something like "to what extent does black gospel music resemble and differ traditions of Christian singing in the European tradition?" I don't know enough about that to answer the question myself, but I think it's a good question.
So I think you gotta narrow your scope if you want an answer that meets the standards of /r/AskHistorians. As it stands, it's too broad to answer in any adequate fashion. What exactly is "the music we have today?" Should we assume that it all comes from a single tradition? Might there be a whole mess of traditions involved? Would it be possible to maybe isolate one strand of musical development you find particularly interesting, and ask us about the history of that strand?