By a long way, In fact, indications are that Ukraine now has more tanks (of Russian type) than they had at the start of the war while Russia has lost about half of its tank force.
Lol, could you imagine if Russia actually ends up losing territory to Ukraine via a surprise war that they started? That would be comical and well deserved.
They'd probably rather be independent than join another former Soviet state. Not saying it wouldn't be possible though. If Putin dies, I very much see Russia, as we know it, dissolving though. I don't think even a Putin protege could hold it together.
As much as I would love to see Putin removed from power, I dont think he'll ever give it up as long as he lives. If I recall, he made a statement that he would be stepping down due to health concern from family but then Ukraine happened and that looks like it went out the window "no pun intended" but I've also heard that he may be dying from cancer but I haven't really seen much else than rumors, no real evidence. Putin put himself and Russia in a bad spot politically and economically with this whole Ukraine debacle. Either way, whether he loses or stops the war or escalates to nuclear use, it will only hurt Russia more. So he's walking a fine line and surely he knows that at this point he can only win a war of attrition and that's ONLY if his political allies can cut off supply of weaponry to Ukraine. But, from what I read today it sounds like the 1st class of advanced military trained Ukrainians via US have finished training and will be ready to deploy shortly so that doesn't help Russia's war of attrition and will likely lose more ground.
Correct me if I'm wrong but I think we failed Ukraine already.. We and several other countries talked them into giving back the nuclear weapons they had in their possession when they gained their independence and we promised them that we would defend them if Russia were to try exactly what they are doing now.
If Ukraine starts taking Russian territory, that will be an extremely threatening situation for all living people, because that could be enough to result in Putin using a tactical nuclear weapon, which Western countries would be forced to respond to, which could lead to the use of strategic nuclear weapons, which could kill all of us.
Some people think there's a chance that Putin might even use nuclear weapons if Ukraine starts retaking Crimean territory (which he claims is Russian territory). Elon Musk definitely seems to be worried about that, which seems to be why he announced a couple months ago that the Starlink satellite communication system that the Ukrainian military is dependent on would be disabled in Crimea, which will significantly hinder and disrupt the Ukrainian military when it does try to push into Crimea.