Today was yet another pretty quiet day. We had some country-wide air raid alerts, but it was just Russian MiG-31K as usual, which they mostly use to scare us, but also for reconnaissance, because apparently it is used in a pair with their AWACS aircraft. There’s a pretty high chance that the next big missile strike might happen in the next couple of days, because it will be orthodox Christmas soon, and they will almost certainly try to ruin it for us.
The strikes on Russian bases and weapon/ammo warehouses seem to happen almost daily now, which is great to see. Most of them are happening in the occupied parts of Zaporizhzhia oblast, it might have something to do with the next planned offensive by our forces, which a lot of our officials have been openly talking about recently. I’m not sure why they are even talking about our planned offensives, I guess either you can’t hide it anyway, or they are trying to mislead Russia by talking about it, which also might be the case, it wouldn’t be the first time that it happens during this war.
"Russia no longer poses a military threat to the world, it's just a fiction, the only issue left is a nuclear arsenal and an uncontrolled regime that will make the whole world realize the need to denuclearize Russia.".
There will likely be further strikes "deeper & deeper" into Russian territory, Ukraine's military intelligence head, Kyrylo Budanov, told ABC News in an interview from Kyiv - without specifically saying whether Ukraine would be behind them.
Ukraine’s military intelligence chief predicts attacks "deeper and deeper" inside Russian territory, saying fighting is likely to be "hottest" in March.
⚡️Ukraine is planning a "serious" counteroffensive in the spring, and combat operations on the front line in March will be "the hottest," Kyrylo Budanov, head of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, said in an interview with ABC News.
They mention that Ukraine is definitely winning this war, but Ukraine's system of values and mentality needs to radically change in order to withstand Russia when it comes back in 2028, 2035 and 2050s-2060s. Especially if that Russia is led by competent evil rather than this dysfunctional one.
Cruel and corrupt Russia cannot be competent? How about Ivan the Terrible's Russia conquering all of Northern Asia? How about Stalin's USSR conquering half of Europe and obtaining global influence?