Should the use of the word 'Tatar' in this period be expected to have been used to define various or miscellaneous Turkic groups rather than the modern day definition?
My point is that artifacts of Mongol and Turkic culture more broadly suffuse the cultures of all people from that vast area of Eurasia that Mongols and Turkic tribes call home. You’ll recall that the native Chinese term “Manchu,” which I’ve reproduced here, is an imprecise umbrella term (which has nevertheless entered the modern academic lexicon among historians as an acceptable term) for referring to the Qing based on having come from Manchuria and its environs.
EDIT: Wow. Tough crowd here. I see you downvoted my answer. I’m not popping off. This is an area of personal expertise, and as I said, I only had a minor quibble with your terminology. My source is Charles Holcomb’s very standard East Asian text (A History of East Asia):
And not a specialist work in Manchu studies like Pamela Crossley’s A Translucent Mirror or Mark Elliott’s The Manchu Way?
The most authoritative discussion is Mark Elliott's The Manchu Way: The Eight Banners and Ethnic Identity in Late Imperial China (2001).
Revisiting Elliott, he says the Banners were the institutional home of a Manchu "warrior caste." The caste analogy is useful in pointing out that the social function of the Banners was primarily military but that not everyone in the caste was actually a soldier and that the Banner institutions had many non-military elements.
But to get on the main point, yes, as they note, most Banner members were not active duty soldiers, and the Banners contained a substantial administrative structure to manage all of their members that was 'civilian' in function, though handled mostly by military officers.
I guess the main point is that the civilian-military distinction does not map very nicely to how the Banners operated in practice. This is exacerbated by the deliberate inculcation of a constructed "Manchu way" by the Qing emperors which posited that martial valor and skill was part of the essence of Manchu ethnic identity - thus all Manchus qua Manchus were soldiers at heart (despite the obvious problems with any such generalization).
The term ‘Manchu’ is not native Chinese, but in fact, er, Manchu (manju in the original language), and designated a group of peoples that mapped largely but imprecisely onto the people previously known as Jurchens (jušen). By that I mean that certain more liminal lineages, most prominently the Yehe Nara (who fell ambiguously between Jurchen and Mongol) were designated as unambiguously Manchu. The imprecision of the term ‘Manchu’ derives principally from the fact that Han colloquial use might designate the entire Banner corps, but Manchu official use referred specifically to a subgroup that was entirely enrolled in the Banners, but it could be ambiguous whether it referred to the Manchu Banners (which contained some non-Manchu peoples like Solons and Sibe) or to the ‘ethnic’ Manchus that made up the bulk of the Manchu Banners.
I've no idea where you are going with the notion that 'Manchu' has a Chinese as well as a Manchu meaning; for one should we not consider the Manchus' own endogenous perspective to be more important when defining Manchu as a category, for another surely if we do see Manchus through their own viewpoint, we in fact have a much more clearly defined and less fluid definition to work with?