You seem to be making an assumption here that individual colonies/states wouldn't have been able to ban slavery before it was banned throughout the British Empire which I'm not sure is completely correct. If you look at the case law in Great Britain, specifically Shanley v Harvey, Somerset v Stewart and Forbes v Cochrane you can see slavery being banned in common law in the late 18th century (although this was not always enforced or upheld quite as well as it could have been). Furthermore, you can see a similar story in Canada with the Act Against Slavery 1793 partially banning slavery and then case law making slavery unenforceable in Lower Canada before the end of the century.
Another thing I'll point out is that there is case law both ways and the individual cases weren't on the legal authority of slavery itself. The aboliton effort from Upper Canada never got passed in Lower Canada (it was proposed in Assembly in 1793 but not voted on) and while some were granted freedom from the bench others were not. In one example a man named Caleb Jones, a Maryland loyalist that had lived in NYC for most of the war serving as a militia captain for the occupying Lobsterbacks, had taken a land grant in New Brunswick post war. He left his slaves there and returned to NYC to buy more. When he got back they had run away and years later they were captured. In their trial the court split 2-2, so no change happened (Interestingly one of the judges released his own slaves as a result of the trial but there was no legal change there as a result of it).
As a result of all this complication, it is virtually impossible to definitively prove (or even legitimately claim imo) that the life of those enslaved as a whole sum unit improved or worsened as a direct result of the revolution. For some it certainly improved. For others, the lives of their children would improve while theirs would not. For another very large group, an entire generation would be forced to work that may otherwise have lived free lives.
As we can see it was very complicated. The last enslaved Pennsylvanian, being born pre-1780, died in 1847. There were less than 100 on the census in 1840, but they would have been free in hypothetical British America of 1840. However their children never endured slavery, which would have happened in the alternative scenario. Complicating this is the fact that selling enslave humans from one state to another was not considered international trade due to the Constitution's regulation on interstate commerce. The University at Georgetown was short on funding, so they sold well over two hundred slaves to plantation owners in Louisiana. Emancipation in their home state did not mean that they would be free anytime soon.