So early work in the history of the child suggested this, not because they thought people were cruel in the past but they thought the psychological trauma would have been horrific if you didn't have coping mechanisms. However, recent work emphasises that many parents experienced significant grief on the deaths of all of their children, and had a range of coping mechanisms, typically tied to religion and the belief in the afterlife, to help them cope with these situations. That people loved such children can be seen in their inclusion in family portraits long after their death (sometimes marked by things like halos or other symbols that show they're dead), by single portraits of dead children that were sometimes used as devotional practices - encouraging parents to be faithful so they could meet their children again; and by the range of personal writings where grief was expressed. What was different was that child death was really common and so it was a thing people shared in common with each other; thus, for example in the 18thC, people were often encouraged to help comfort each other through their shared grief. I think that cultures where this was more normal had better techniques and support mechanisms to help people manage grief. Having said this, what we might call 'abnormal grief', where people become ill with grief, is also found in the past. It is especially associated with mothers, but examples of men exist too. I recently came across a criminal case in the early 19thC where the local leaders asked for a father to be excused as mad as he had recently lost several children in a fire, and 12 children in total. It's sad stuff!
The most current approaches to emotion are basically framed through practice and performance theory (Bourdieu, Goffman, Butler), where we see the self, including the body, as produced through cultural acts. In other words, emotions become things we do. These have then been developed into a variety of conceptual tools that are widely used - emotional communities (people who share norms about emotional expression), emotional regimes (where emotional norms shape power relationships), emotional ethics (me - where emotional norms are also aspirations for moral action, as in the concept of caritas), emotional practices (things we do that produce emotion), and so forth. My book History of Emotions: a student guide explains each of these concepts for students, but most good emotions history textbooks will explain the key ideas if you want to follow it up.
To what degree does the field of history of emotions incorporate developments in the study of emotions in fields like cognitive neuroscience and psychology?
Can you explain how history of emotion is contextualized in relation to the differences in the conception of what exactly “emotion” or consciousness is depending on the culture.
When I studied the history of emotions was an example of an emotion that was possibly not really experienced by modern people (which I and most would dispute), but is definitely defined differently to how we would look at emotions today. There are various sources on that wiki page, especially the early Christianity bit.