As an artist I'd like to point out that seeing something daily or living amongst a phenomena does not automatically translate into knowing what it looks like visually when you attempt to draw it. In other words, to draw or paint something life-like requires a) reference to reality and b) drawing process with said reference. Reference meaning either something that has been drawn before (since there were no photographs) or sitting down in front of the subject and making sense of it from life.
So, mere recollection of seeing some platonic idea of the subject is not enough, you need the visual data. That's part of the reason why in medieval art flowing blood often looks to us like silly cartoon-like droplets: the artist has seen blood splatter IRL and documents this memory by drawing something arbitrary in red, portraying his memory of the action of blood. Kids and art students do this all the time when they attempt to draw a full head of hair for example: buncha lines will do. They don't exactly observe every strand visually, instead they substitute the idea of "hairs" with a gesture or a kind of "symbol" if you like. This obviously doesn't mean the "arbitrary" aspect of medieval iconography wasn't fine tuned to serve very specific traditions and conventions.
In a lot of cases, the iconographic value of something, for recognition purposes, was more important in medieval art than realism. Medieval people definitely knew what stab wounds/cuts look like. But in late medieval art, the iconography for the side wound of Christ (where the spear of Longinus pierced Jesus' side while he was hanging on the cross) looking like...let's just say .
The first thing to keep in mind is that basically all medieval art that you're familiar with is by highly skilled artists. absolutely exist. But they were in manuscripts less likely to be preserved, and far less likely to be promoted by modern libraries digitizing their collections.
Although we don’t know for sure, this specific example was probably a communal text for the nuns of St. Clare’s Freiburg—the prayers are an anthology collected from one of the monastery sisters. So rather than anything splashy for display, or that they might swap with another community, it’s just some sister whose usual task is NOT manuscript decoration, wanting to provide an illustration anyway.