Thomas Sullivan of the 49th at the Battle of Harlem Heights: "The Cannonading continued at both sides for an hour... All that time out Brigade i.e. 2d., lay upon our Arms in a field of Indian corn..." Another by Thomas Glyn of the Brigade of Guards describes the same at the Battle of Brandywine. The battalion companies did this along with the light companies. The first light infantry battalion at Brandwine had orders to lay down on their arms and fire. "...we were compelled to throw ourselves on our knees and bellies, and keep up a fire from the slope of the hill." This was part of the ascension of the hill and effective enough to drive back rebel forces from constant fire. So while it may have been slower to load, the forces laying down had the ability to keep up a good fire. I will add that it was not this sole movement that won the battle but also a coordinated attack from the left flank of grenadiers. The light infantry, whether on company or brigaded battalion level, did act differently that "hat" or battalion companies but with the description of Sullivan and Glyn, one can see that it was a practice done by line infantrymen in the British army.
In contrary to popular depiction, they did. The British had called out for their soldiers to "lay on their arms" since the War of Austrian Succession in the 18th Century. It was used under severe fire from enemies and to safely return fire. It is possible to reload muzzleloading flintlocks while laying down, it does take more time though. The British army was not this stagnant machine that did not adapt to how warfare or a battle changed. There are some primary sources of soldiers being ordered to lay down and fire/wait for the enemy to shoot.
That being said the troops with muzzle loaders where not standing the whole time. Especially when waiting on the enemy infantry to attack and being under cannon barrage, troops would often lie down to minimize casualties. Wellinons "reverse slope defence" (basically commanding a ridge and having your troops positioned on the slope opposite to the enemy so they could not be fire upon) used this tactic very effectively in the Peninsular War and at the Battle of Waterloo.
Very interesting, I thought it much less common. Regarding germanic armies I can only tell you about the Austrian side in the Battle of Königgrätz (still using Miné muzzle loader). They stood or kneeled in the most part which made a rather big difference in this battle. But this can hardly be called a typical example since tactics where also already changing due to the longer effective ranges of the rifles (300m for the Prussians, over 600m for the Austrians) compared to muzzle loading muskets where engagements were often at a range of under 100m.
Of course light infantry used rifles, irregular formations and prone firing also earlier and germanic armies had a long history of employing Jäger as (muzzle loading) rifle armed light infantry. Regarding the classical line infantry of germanic armies I sadly have no deeper knowledge other than that the Hannoverian army had sometimes pretty similar training to the english army.