Go down to the police station and ask to just file a report, just to file. They don't have to arrest him for the car theft, just file. The impound yard thing makes no sense though. What are they saying exactly? And why isn't insurance helping, does he live with your girlfriend?
You need to pay this right away and get the car out. You can deal with trying to get reimbursed later, but this is just going to rise.
Your insurer will require this to pay covered expenses, and I suspect is what they're asking for and holding the process up. It isn't possible for us to know why they're denying the claim as there are a few other possibilities such as coverage to consider, but if it is hinging on whether or not a report exists to cover, I suspect they mean this one and not a criminal complaint against the brother.
Our justice system requires the state/prosecution of a criminal offense, such as auto theft, show a jury proof beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant did, in fact, commit the offense. The prosecution needs more than your accusation itself in order to convict; a jury can certainly deduct it is reasonably possible that you did allow him to drive it if your statement is all they have to go by. That's just not enough to meet the burden of proof needed. You don't want to live in a system where an accusation by the victim is enough to convict without the defense also being entitled to scrutinize the accusation and accuser, I promise. It would be a really messed up Orwellian dystopia.
You are legally obligated to report accidents with over $2500 in property damage; if injury or death occurs; if any vehicle is towed; or $2500 in damage to any vehicle in the incident to Oregon DoT via this form: (PDF).
Filing a police report and having charges filed are two different things. The police can't cite your brother in law based on your accusation alone; he would have to admit to events to them. Police aren't finders of fact; they can't decide what happened and charge someone with what would be an arbitrary or suspected offense, then wait and see what a jury says. The system just doesn't work like that.