I was thinking of strategic level stuff like with how Russia is distributing their forces in Ukraine. Some of the decisions they made were so incomprehensibly inept. It was to the point that they failed to supply their forced well enough for the initial push, they failed to even locate most of their strategic targets, (bombing long abandoned sites) and threw entire deployments of "elite" soldiers into meat grinders unsupported. I can only imagine their entire strategic planning process was working with absolutely false information. It really seems like the only info they had was their own propaganda.
The advantage that the US military has is not one that I fully understand, but as I understand it the US military is all in on intelligence gathering and logistical capacity, to the point that in those areas it is basically unmatched. So the information coming up the chain of command is probably seriously flawed, even if just by the "fog of war," but command does not have to rely exclusively on it, and it's information can be tempered toward usefulness.
I don't really want to come down to hard on the potential competence of the Russian soldiers here. I am sure many of them would have been fine soldiers if they had been fighting for a less cartoonishly inept armed force. It is more likely that, in an attempt to demoralize the Ukrainian people, their military is being encouraged to degrade themselves and behave without discipline. While the soldiers are responsible for the horrors they commit, people are a product of their environment, and the Russian government seems to want to have a rabid mob rather than a military.
If there are really that many morally, innocent Russian soldiers, taking that mad man out should not be a problem and there be a lot less deaths.
Ukrainians are dying in thousands because of those Russians, and its their civilians not soldiers who are dieing unlike Russians. So yea no shit people have no sympathy towards Russian loss , they are the invaders and they are the ones why its happening.
The huge number of committed atrocities make it really hard to feel sorry for russians. Sure some of them are there against their will and just following orders, but I'm yet to see footage of a russian soldier voicing protest against war or Putin, just complaints that they don't have enough weapons to kill Ukrainians. They've chosen who is their enemy.