So insofar as you can distil the Hebrew Bible down to an 'essence', it's more a complex layered tapestry with different strands weaving together - and even then, most of these strands are 'authentically' Yahwist - than something deriving from a singular (Mesopotamian) tradition. On the other hand, some of the key texts (like Genesis 1) are definitely Mesopotamian in origin, and the overall influence of the Mesopotamian scribal tradition on the development of the Hebrew Bible should not be underestimated.
This is a tough one. Hebrew is just the language, though it's occasionally used to describe the culture of the biblical authors. Yahwist is used to describe the people instrumental in making Yahweh the head of the local pantheon and then turning it into a monotheistic religion, so in that sense it's a bit of a self-evident truth (of course Yahwist elements are part of a collection of texts promoting Yahweh).
A common argument is that there were traditions where Yahweh would have been worshiped ahead of all other deities or been the only deity worshiped by the Israelites while accepting that other groups might worship other ‘real’ deities (monolatry or henotheism). Hence the injunction of the First Commandment “Thou shalt have no other gods before me” (emphasis mine). Taken in a more literal fashion that doesn’t explicitly deny the existence of other deities, but does command that Yahweh be worship ahead of them.
The other major aspect of Yahweh in the Hebrew Bible as we have it is his creative power - his omnipotence over the universe, if you will. Now it's unlikely that this came from Ba'lu in the West-Semitic sphere - they didn't really have any gods that powerful, and in the Ugaritic case they didn't even have a creation myth! (We may yet find one, of course, but we've found a lot of Ugaritic literature and creation myths aren't even referenced beyond minor epithets like 'the maker'.) So this aspect of increasingly-powerful Yahweh probably comes from elsewhere, and our best candidate is the Neo-Babylonian Empire and its supreme deity Marduk (and later his son, Nabû). Babylon had already provided the inspiration for Genesis 1 through its own national epic Enuma elish, and it is during this period - the century or so it was by a mile the most powerful empire in the region (and perhaps the world) - that its central deities pick up more and more power. Marduk gradually absorbs older deities like Enlil, Anu, and Ea, a development that seems to have gone hand-in-hand with (if it wasn't driven by) the Babylonian ideology of absolute power. So here, we see a sort of joint development of theology and ideology, which is likely to have affected the portrayal of Yahweh in the Hebrew Bible (given that the elite from Jerusalem spent 50 years exiled in Babylon). If you want to read more detail, I can very much recommend Mark Smith's God in Translation, which addresses this and similar questions (and includes a broader range of gods).
Any reading you can offer on the paradigm and rituals of the priests being sorts of "humanity's ambassadors to God" would be welcome!