If you are a first time visitor, welcome! This thread is trending high right now and getting a lot of attention, but it is important to remember those upvotes represent interest in the question itself, and . The mission of /r/AskHistorians is to provide users with in-depth and comprehensive responses, and our are intended to facilitate that purpose. We remove comments which don't follow them for reasons including unfounded speculation, shallowness, and of course, inaccuracy. Making comments asking about the removed comments simply compounds this issue. So please, before you try your hand at posting, check out the rules ( as we don't want to have to warn you further. (Note: it seems that subreddit wiki links aren't currently working on the mobile app for Android, but it seems fine on other platforms. This bug has been reported.).
Finally, while we always appreciate feedback, it is unfair to the OP to further derail this thread with META conversation, so if anyone has further questions or concerns, I would ask that they be directed to , or a . Thank you!
Happy to! Like many feminist-minded organizations in the 1970s, the did their best to push on the levers of power through collective action, including protesting and letter writing campaigns. They also created person to person networks that offered support to women who were facing dangerous work conditions. Additionally, they supported job action when such actions made sense. I found instances of their work - or members' work - crossing over with labor union activitsits who shared similar goals, but mostly they focused on the particular needs of women office workers. Members testified in front of Congress several times regarding work rules, or when they weren't testifying themselves, helped those who did. They helped lawmakers write laws and remain active in policy work.
Which leads us back to the phrase “9 to 5.” Regardless of what wave of feminism we’re talking about, advocates for women’s rights have had to reconcile the tension that in virtually all instances, men held the levers of power. In other words, a great deal of the work of feminists was about persuading men, mostly white, to change their minds. (Edit to add: this helps us understand why the hours of 9 AM to 5 PM were the norm for a particular kind of job, a job mostly held by middle to upper middle class men. Those are the hours that the men in power, which includes those who lead unions, wanted to work. Likewise, if your thinking is that 9 to 5 were the hours of the "typical" job, you're defining "typical" by the jobs held by a small segment of the American population.) This tension was what inspired Karen Nussbaum and Ellen Cassedy, two Boston-area office workers to create “9to5” (no spaces) in 1973, an organization committed to supporting women to speak up for what’s was rightfully theirs.
While there’s a place for an answer related to the history of the 40-hour-work week, unions, and fair labor practices, it misses the point of Parton's song to take the title literally. That is, instead of “9 to 5” being a literal marker of the limits of a work day, the song, the movie, and the organization of the same name used it to a way to evoke a particular kind of employment, and the related benefits and perks, that had historically been denied American women. The history behind your question isn't about the work day: it's about second-wave feminism and signaling.
I'm torn because this answer is very interesting and informative about feminist history (love me some Dolly Parton!) but it doesn't even attempt to answer OP's question. In fact, in the followup they say this: