It is generally seen that songs in the Vietnam war era were absolutely against the war, as many musicians putting out these songs were around the same age or slightly older than the listener. Even so, there were songs in the time period that were pro-war, songs that would appeal to what President Nixon called the “silent majority”. These included songs like Merle Haggard’s ; Haggard had written the song to support soldiers who had given up their freedom to fight, and was quoted as saying “What the hell did these kids have to complain about?” in regards to those against the war effort.
But we must consider that the people buying these singles were all old enough to fight in Vietnam, and the majority of them were against the war. Songs that seem pro-war, such as The Merry-Go-Round’s were in truth calling out the nature of the war; the songwriter, Emitt Rhodes, was quoted as saying that:
The Landes article I reference in the answer linked above discusses a few different pro-war country tunes:
The 1990s was definitely a particular point where country music was in commercial ascendancy - the likes of Shania Twain and Garth Brooks were extremely popular at this point, selling tens of millions of records. However, of course, country music has always been aimed at the rural demographic at is at the heart of its fanbase, and it was likely very popular indeed in rural Wisconsin regardless of trends in the mainstream. There's other points where country music seems to have pretty popular, broadly - Willie Nelson by the early 1980s was a top-grossing concert act, for example, and there were definitely more than a few country crossover tracks in the mainstream charts in the 1950s, and further adaptations of country songs to mainstream styles (I mean, Tony Bennett had a hit covering Hank Williams' 'Cold Cold Heart' in 1951). But at other times the mainstream was less tolerant of country music, and the mid-1960s was broadly speaking one of these times.
So yes, there was patriotic, pro-war country music popular with (one would assume) a predominantly rural demographic.
OK very interesting, so then in the Vietnam era there was there patriotic, pro-war country music that was popular with more rural demographics than what typically gets talked about in music history?
So certainly within the music industry in the mid-to-late 1960s, country music was seen as more marginal - a niche, not part of the mainstream - than it might have been at other times. But there were some crossover hits in the late 1960s - most notably Merle Haggard's 'Okie From Muskogee' and the Johnny Cash live albums recorded at prisons (At Folsom Prison and At San Quentin).