It doesn't really matter where the old fences are, that the fences have been there since before you bought the house, that you may have bought the house based on where the old fences were, or that the strip of land is important to you and doesn't seem that important to them. What matters is where the survey says the property lines are. Since you bought the house so recently and had an obligation to do your due diligence/look at the survey/find out exactly where the property lines are, this is probably not a situation where you can claim that you have a right to use the neighbor's six feet of land (if it belongs to the neighbor) because of where the old fences were. Of course, you should look at your survey and figure out exactly where the property line is. If the survey says that the land belongs to you or notes that you have an easement to use that strip of land then you should show that to the neighbor and get ready to contact a lawyer or code enforcement.
You need to verify the exact location of the property lines for your land and not just rely on your belief as to where those boundaries lie. If you don't already have a proper survey, you will need to contract with a licensed land surveyor. Alternately, reach out to the management of the commercial property to see whether they might have done this already and would be willing to share it with you.
It is very possible that they did have a survey done and may well have placed their fence inside their property, set off from the property line by a few inches. Doing so would have given them full discretion around the type of fencing (chain link). You would still be able to erect a wooden fence a few inches inside the property line on your side to give you back your privacy.
Yes you could buy the land if the seller was willing to do so but you.might want to consider putting up a privacy fence on your own property. Your yard might be smaller then you thought but you would feel more secure in your yard and with your dog.
Not sure what you mean, then, since you also say, "My dad fenced it off so my puppy could have a safe place to play outside." Do you mean that your dad built a separate free-standing enclosure for your puppy inside of the original wooden fence?