I can't answer this question from the perspective of the average medieval peasant, but I can give some information about the medieval Roman (or Byzantine) state and how they dealt with wounded during campaign.
Not only were more obvious things like equipment and provisions required, but also pack animals and potentially servants could be shared between groups of soldiers. Speaking of groups it's important to understand how these soldiers were organized. The most basic organizational unit of the Byzantine army during this period was the banda. This unit changed in size over time but the Praecepta Militaria mentioned about 50 men. It also mentions "see to it that kinsmen with kinsmen and friends with friends are assigned to each one so that they live and take meals together in camp, on the march, and everywhere. " By now we're starting to paint a slightly different picture than the lone peasant whisked away to war in a far away place alone and with nothing but the shirt on his back. In the Byzantine army of this period we have groups on kinsmen, or at least men who were familiar with each other, receiving the muster and marching to war together as a cohesive unit. Well equipped and provisioned, likely with horses, pack animals and potentially servants to help on the march.
"If possible, they should travel everywhere on foot, each pair of men with one mule to carry their shields, spears, and provisions. "…"each group of 4 must have one man whose responsibility it is in time of battle to watch over their animals, baggage, and provisions. Those on foot unable to keep up with the cavalry because of the lenh of the march or fatigue should have an extra mule each to carry him and bring along their provisions. Their attendants must follow on foot. ".
Yes. I am not super knowledgeable about the English levy, which is under studied in general. I mostly focus on the professional class of soldier whom the levy augmented. My impression is that originally, perhaps under the Anglo-Saxons, service was owed on an economic basis. In order to provide a properly equipped soldier (helmet, spear, shield, knife), several poor households might pool money together. But I'm a tad suspicious that the formal rules of any medieval institution were folllowed to the letter. The obligation was communal in that the king asked for X men out of a given area containing several thousands, and it was largely up to the locals and the minor royal official or officials on the spot to determine how they were raised and supplied. I suspect there was always a certain amount of horse trading involved, as the levy was only rarely called up en masse and that typically for local emergencies.