Elon then launches a new company to build giant tennis rackets. By the time the first prototype is complete six months later, Russia is losing badly and has barely any missiles left and maybe launches one a month or so. The tennis racket is deployed despite no longer being needed, and one day it gets a rare opportunity to do its one job and it works perfectly. Russian air defenses mis-interpret the returning volley as an incoming ICBM and launch all their ICBMs at Ukraine and NATO. NATO launches all their ICBMs back at Russia. Elon grabs Joe Rogan and together they make their escape to Mars on a now-functional Starship. Joe Rogan periodically holds interviews just for the sake of nostalgia, despite Joe's only two podcast viewers being Joe and Elon, the entire rest of the human race being deceased. When asked about the tennis racket, Elon shrugs and says, "I told them it would work.".
Re. "Russia launches 'empty' missiles to wear out Ukrainian air defense" I can imagine this may prove useful to throw decoys into the bunch to increase the probability missiles with legitimate warheads get through, but... Warhead aside, the actual missiles themselves can't be cheap. Considering Russia's economy is in shambles while there is no sign of the world's funding of Ukraine not subsiding — I can't imagine this could possibly yield a net-positive for Russia, economically-speaking.
Problematic for sure, but of course this is still Russian depletion too - and Ukraine has fantastic supplies for replenishment, whereas Russia has a sanctions-squeezed military industrial complex and buggered supply lines.
Russia will have less-and-less leverage upon its would-be allies as they all scent blood and Russia's inevitable, albeit protracted, loss. There is rapidly decreasing incentive for smaller as well as larger states to assist or be seen to assist or even support Russia anymore.
This. All Russian polling data is meaningless. There can be no representative polling in a repressive state.
Ultimately Putin & Co won't be held fully account unless their regime is both toppled and either replaced by one with humanitarian values, or by a puppet government from one or more victor states (as Germany was post-WW2). Those are the conditions required to get those people to stand trial.