Thanks for the very informative reply! I had no idea about the other companies involved with assisting Germany, that's really interesting. Do you know if any of those companies publicly addressed that? Or was that swept under the rug? What you said about the collective guilt makes a lot of sense and it seems to me that the American companies involved were much more at fault rather than a German car company supporting what they saw as a justified war effort.
To summarise: VW exist because they were resurrected after the war, they were allowed to do so because West German citizens collectively bore responsibility for wartime actions and all moved into the new future together. The brand became the darling of hippy culture through a combination of West German pro-green youth movements and the mass-produced Beetle's incredible suitability for that market.
As time moved on West Germany became synonymous with an anti-war, anti-nuclear "green" movement and young, newly-mobile West German teams had adopted the Beetle almost by default. There were obvious attractions in a cheap four (five, six, maybe seven) seater that had good mileage, was mostly rain-proof, could cover long distances and which, most importantly, was available second-hand in copious numbers. When VW moved into producing a van, the almost-legendary Type 2, they were equally in demand by a generation that was becoming identified with the "hippy" movement. That influence moved across the world and it became the vehicle (and brand) of choice for young green-thinkers on the road. You ask about the 1970s but I'd say that the hippy adoption of- and association with Volkswagen really began in the previous decade.
Volkswagen had begun significant exports into the US by the mid-1950s and its famous "think-small" campaign helped to cement it as an icon of the 1960s. Similarly, both Mercedes and BMW also penetrated the US market. Yet prior to the 1970s, FRG cars tended to fill in market niches that Detroit either ignored or felt beneath their effort. For example, the VW Beetle was one of the cars of choice for both women and households needing a second car, demographics that Detroit expected to be filled by the used car market. Mercedes and BMW became associated with an alternative luxury market, one which both Detroit and US consumers already associated with European-made products. As such, the wider cultural reaction to these German products on US shores did not resurrect the ghosts of the Second World War since German cars initially were not displacing US manufacturing, but instead serving a need US industry did not attempt to fill. A side bar in Melvin J Lasky's rather fawning 2 October 1955 NYT's article "The Volkswagen: A success story," captured this complacent mentality. After noting to its readers that although the Beetle was the fastest-selling foreign car in the US, the sidebar contended: