Hm, well, I can't exactly answer your question (not sure if anyone can?) but I can give you some context.
Honestly, given how anti-slavery Bolivar was - his favourite tactic was to grant slaves freedom only IF they killed their former masters - and how pro-slavery Napolean was, it's hard to think Napolen was anything other than irritated at the thought of Bolivar granting freedom to all former Spanish colony slaves as he liberated country after country, especially since Napoleon knew how much harder it was to reinstate slavery after slaves had already been freed. Napoleon was very pro-slavery when it came to Saint-Domingue specifically (half of modern-day Dominican Republic) for wealth and prestige reasons, but I for one think his aggressive approach to re-imposing extreme slavery would have been extended to all of Latin American had Napoleon got his hands on it.
Although one has to wonder if Napoleon wasn't a little happy about how Bolivar helped to ensure his Napoleanic Code became adopted by all Latin American countries even despite the French-Spanish rivalry and lack of encouragement to do so. The Napoleanic Code is what Bonaparte considered to be his greatest achievement of all time and something he openly advocated for the whole world to implement without delay. Fun fact; the Napoleanic Code is still in use by many countries (and Louisiana) across the world to this day!
So in reality, Bolivar arrived in France some time in 1804, perhaps early in the year, and was actually part of Napoleon's retinue for a time. Bolivar was fascinated by Napoleon at first, but later became disillusioned by Bonaparte's perceived betrayal of republican ideals. I don't think this happened overnight. The coronation disgusted Bolivar and he left Paris to tour around Europe with his old friend Simón Rodríguez while they brainstormed the future possibilites of a Latin American revolution.
While you are waiting for answers, a very similar question was answered very well by u/Red_Galiray in another thread, but focusing on what Bolivar thought of Napoleon:
The question was technically about what both thought of each other, but I couldn't find anything about what Napoleon thought of Bolivar. Then again, I haven't really studied Napoleon so it's possible there are sources I haven't checked that answer the question.