You'd be very hard pressed to get a lawyer to take on a case of so little monetary value. I'd say nearly impossible actually. Just because the car that exploded and burned (which then caused damage to yours) belonged to him doesn't mean he owes you a dime. Ownership alone means nothing. In order for him to be liable he has to have been negligent. You can be pretty certain his adjuster has made sure he's on solid ground in the lack of negligence before denying your claim.
But I go back again to just because he owns the car doesn't mean he's negligent and liable for your damages. If a tornado picked up his car and sent it flying into yours, he's not liable because he can't control the weather. This sounds like it's no different. There can very well be things beyond his control that caused his car to explode.
I'm an agent with decades of experience. No, they won't necessarily go after Mercedes. Sometimes stuff just happens without fault on anyone. Long before I was an agent my son had a car go up in flames. No one did anything wrong so there was no one to go after. Just because a part fails doesn't mean it was the manufacturer's fault. Things wear out, things break. That can't always be prevented or anticipated. As for the burden of proof, I think you misunderstood the adjuster. They have a legal contract with their client that requires them to protect their client, they have no contract with you. If I called your insurance and claimed you scratched my car, your insurance isn't going to just say OK and pay what I say if you say it didn't happen. They will tell me to provide proof. The burden is always on the claimant to prove the other party owes them. Legally, his insurance owes you nothing until you actually sue and win a judgement against their client.
The day after it happened a claim was filed with our insurance. We then called their insurance, filed a claim, and were told he would contact us Monday. He called after speaking with the owner of the other car.
Regardless of what they prove. Either the owner of the car or the car company will be at fault. How does burden of proof fall on me? They will have it after the investigation.