Well, yes and no. Timur saw himself in many ways as continuing the Chinggisid legacy, but pointedly refused to take the title of khan, which by this time was only borne by descendants of Genghis Khan (and indeed, ruled through puppet khans of Chinggisid descent for much of his career). The "official" titles which he most often used to describe himself were amir, or ruler, and küregen (gūrkān), or "son-in-law," reflecting his marriage to a number of Chinggisid princesses. (Which is why the Mughals, themselves descendants of both Timur patrilineally and the Chinggisids matrilineally, usually called themselves by the name of Gūrkānī.).
That being said, Timurid genealogical traditions portrayed the Barlas—Timur's own clan group—as a parallel to the Borjigin in many respects, and created a role for Timur's ancestor Qarachar Barlas as an advisor to Genghis Khan and his son Chaghatai. While the most complete examples of this tradition date after Timur's death, it has been convincingly argued that these have their origins in work done during the conqueror's own life. Most historians these days would accept that these genealogical practices were initiated by Timur as part of his program of defining the Barlas clan as historical assistants to the Chinggisid monarchs (as indeed he himself pretended to be).
So as far as political legitimacy goes, Timur and his descendants were certainly aware of and used Chinggisid strategies (though again, Timur himself drew the line at claiming full sovereignty). Genealogically, though, they did not consider themselves Chinggisids. Some genealogical traditions do hint at a common ancestry for the Barlas and the Borjigin, but enough generations back that Timur certainly held no illusions of descent from Genghis Khan. (Other traditions played up other genealogical claims, e.g., descent from ʿAli.) As for "the people living in Timur's empire," well, some of them were Mongols, and they certainly considered themselves descendants of the same! Others not ethnically Mongol could certainly trace their families back to tribal groups who had accompanied the Mongols. But there's no evidence of a widespread belief that most people in Timur's domains were Mongol in origin, if that's what you mean...?
In any event, it's probably worth underlining for OP that much of Timur's domain was the old _Ilkhanate_, or Mongol-ruled Iran. By the time Timur came around, the Mongol Ilkhans had long begun drawing heavily on the tradition of Persian kingship in justifying themselves, to the point that they can probably be credited with reviving _Iran_ as a political entity. Obviously the people living in this region would have had quite a different view of the Mongols than those in, say, what is today Kyrgyzstan.