In Christian theology, Jesus is important not because he's Jesus but because he is God on Earth, and is Christ, or the Christ -- Christ being the Anglicized version of the Latin Chrīstus and Greek Χρῑστός, or the Hebrew "Messiah" (apologies, I don't know the Hebrew character spelling). All of these words mean "anointed," that is, specially favored by God. The worship of Christ is the worship of the Lord's anointed.
In Christian theology (making it clear I'm not making this claim, because someone keeps reporting me for soapboxing) the Trinity represents three aspects of the same being: God the creator of the universe; Jesus, God made manifest in flesh and fully mortal; and the Holy Spirit, the metaphor or representation for God's agency in the world. Again, this is a trinitarian belief -- many non-trinitarian churches also exist (e.g. the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints).
Together The Father, Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost make up the Godhead. All three have the powers of God. But the latter two are created by the first being and have their power through him. To use the old trinitarian wording, they’re not co-equal nor are they co-eternal.
They believe that God the Father (sometimes called Elohim) created Jesus (sometimes called Jehovah) in spirit before the creation of the world, along with all other human spirits. Jesus becomes God through his faithfulness both before his birth and during his life. Practically from his creation Jehovah maintains a uniquely special relationship with Elohim, as the first being created by him. And throughout the Old Testament he gets to act as God as if he were Elohim.
The Holy Ghost is also a special created spirit by Elohim. But he’s much less discussed in Mormon theology.
In some ways the Jehovah’s Witnesses resemble Mormon beliefs. Jesus (also known as Michael) is a being created by Jehovah (God). However he wasn’t created as a spirit; they don’t believe in spirts in the traditional sense. So he doesn’t come along until his conception within Mary. And although Jesus has a unique and special role, he never becomes God. Only Jehovah is God. Jesus/Michael is just the greatest human. There’s no Godhead or Trinity, there’s just Jehovah as God.