So you haven't gone to court yet? One option is to, well, do nothing at all. No law requires you to settle his estate. But for the sake of your mother, it may be a good idea. The creditors need to if you tell them to. Do NOT acknowledge any debt or engage with them. Read that link.
Ultimately, you don't want to be sued, you can't afford it, even if you win. Yes this is a "sky is falling" scenario, but sometimes the sky does fall.
The problem here is that if you do this incorrectly, even innocently, you can be personally liable for his debts. If you choose to try to take on this responsibility, given that he has significant debts, you have to do it perfectly, or not at all. To do it perfectly you will want to hire a probate attorney (at least I would). Yes, funeral expenses would be one of the first things paid out, but then how much is left, and you're going to have to hold onto some of the funds for other reasons like settling his taxes next year. (Did he pass away in 2020 or 2021?).
IANAL. Probate can be tricky, so it is best to consult a licensed CT attorney who practices in estate law.
You are not responsible for your father's debts unless you signed on as guarantor, same goes for your step mother. Neither of you should make any statements to the creditors about paying their debts, they are well aware that debts typically die with the debtor and they make provision for that in their operating budgets.
If there are insufficient assets in the estate to pay all the liabilities, each creditor gets a fraction of the debt owed. In your case, if you consult an attorney, their fee needs to be paid first, then other administrative costs, then funeral costs (the funeral home will have signed a contract with your step mother, so she'll have to pay them). There won't be anything left over to pay his other tens of thousands in debt, his estate will be insolvent.
One of the priority debts in an estate administration is paying for the funeral/disposition of remains. What this means is that those costs (up to a state decreed maximum) take priority over other unsecured debts, so, as long as you complete the necessary legalities correctly, your step mother should get paid for the funeral costs.