Edit: Information on this topic was primarily taken from David M. Oshinsky's essay "Harry S. Truman" and David L. Stebenne's "Dwight D. Eisenhower" from the collection "The American Presidency" edited by Alan Brinkley and Davis Dyer. Additional info can be found in "Presidential Leadership" edited by James Taranto and Leonard Leo. Additionally, two documentaries I would recommend from PBS's American Experience series are "Truman" and "Eisenhower.".
Eisenhower can be seen as a political general; a person doesn't ascend to the rank of Supreme Allied Commander without having political instincts. But following the end of World War II, he had kept himself out of the fray and did not share his political views. Eisenhower had to be sold on the idea of running for president, and once he was, he declared himself publicly as a Republican, though as it would become clear, he really fit more in the mold of Thomas Dewey than Robert Taft. This is a primary reason he was paired with Richard Nixon as his running mate, to appease the conservative wing with a hard-nosed, tough anti-communist with experience in government, as well as someone who was younger.
Truman and Eisenhower, however, had a famous falling out once Eisenhower began his campaign for president, likely because Eisenhower was openly critical of the Truman administration.
So I willingly defer to those who have a deeper understanding of the 1952 election, but my understanding is that Eisenhower basically ran on a platform of "Korea, Communism and Corruption," ie his major selling point being that he would use his political and military experience to bring a satisfactory conclusion to the Korean War. The "communism" aspect was the implication that the Truman administration had inadequately stood up to communism abroad and had been infiltrated by communists and communist sympathizers at home (this was when Wisconsin Republican Senator Joseph McCarthy's witchhunt was in full-swing, and while Eisenhower didn't endorse it, he remained silent on the matter). The "corruption" was a reference to corruption scandals that had involved members of Truman's administration, and the promise here was that an Eisenhower presidency would run the government more efficiently and honestly. Ideologically-speaking, there wasn't necessarily a big difference between Eisenhower and Adlai Stevenson - the campaign was more around who would more effectively manage the government, fight communism, and deal with Korea. This isn't of course to deny that there was a right wing of the Republicans that considered the Democrats to be tantamount to communists, nor a section of the Democrats that saw in Eisenhower a second Hoover administration, however.