In simple terms it was because of racism and homophobia and conservatism. Socially conservative America felt their way of life threatened by Disco as it was uncomfortably Black and non-conformist for their taste.
As to hating disco bringing people together - sure, particularly within the young white male demographic Abrams profiled. Chances are that ninety something percent of people don’t care much for whatever song is at the top of the charts right now, or are not interested in hearing it. Disco’s sheer ubiquity for a long period of time played a role in people coming to hate it, alongside (as I argued) reactions we might now characterise as based in homophobia and toxic masculinity. But, to use your examples, punk and prog rock were both bigger deals commercially in the 1970s in the UK than in the USA. Hating disco was probably more likely, in the USA, to bring together a (white male) Grand Funk Railroad fan and a (white male) Eagles fan.
What perhaps was unusual amongst new trends in the soul world was that disco just got bigger and bigger. Disco tunes were regularly at the top of the charts in 1976, though they shared the charts with plenty of other styles of music. The presence of a cash-in song like - a 1 in 1976 - was probably a clue that the disco fad was about to crash. By 1976 it was obvious that there were subgenres of disco, including East Coast funk, sophisto-soul, East Coast disco, the Miami sound, and West Coast disco. By this time, you'd think dance music was ready to move on from disco.
As to why disco faded from this height, in some ways it was inevitable. Times change, and styles of genres fade into the background as new ones replace them. More surprising than disco fading away was that it lasted so long. The Disco Demolition Night of July 12th 1979 - a promotion for a baseball game where you could come in cheap if you brought a disco record to be burnt, which quickly spiralled out of control - however, did crystallise the sheer level of frustration with disco that many white American males felt with disco, a very popular style of music that deliberately was not aimed at them; the Disco Demolition Night was a sort of proto-Gamergate.
Amongst the black communities that originally incubated disco, hip-hop - a more 'real' present-focused kind of music compared to disco, which always went for glamour and utopian dreaming - was becoming very popular at nightclubs instead of disco; Grandmaster Flash called disco acts 'sterile'. The Bee Gees, aware that they were commercial poison by 1981 or so, began writing songs for other artists (including , and 'Heartbreaker' for Dianne Warwick). By 1982, the famous Studio 54 had been converted into an upmarket 'salon' that played soft classical music. , produced by Nile Rodgers, one of the main guys in disco superstars Chic, gives as good a clue to the sound of post-disco dance music in the early 1980s as anything else - the sound is a kind of high-tech 1960s funk/soul, with synths and drum machines. James Brown who had some very unsuccessful years in the late 1970s trying to keep up with disco, was back in the charts with , now that the times suited him.