Did George Wallace operate strictly by political stunts? If so, then he’s George Wallace. Otherwise, he’s an uncharismatic bully who will get his ass trounced outside of Florida.
In Florida, he throws reporters out of news conferences, but if he runs for president he’s going to have to sit there and answer questions about the human trafficking scandal, having black Floridians falsely arrested as a voter suppression stunt, his retaliation against Disney for not backing him on the Don’t Say Gay law, among other horrible legislative decisions regarding insurance and other domestic issues which have made Florida unlivable to a huge amount of people.
He’s going to get the scrutiny all presidential candidates get and people outside of Florida are going to learn that his COVID task force is made up completely of quack doctors, that he was pro vaccine and lockdown before doing a 180 for political reasons, that he became anti vax for political reasons and let close to 40k people die after the vaccine became available, and that his anti wokeness is just an act to get the idiots in his base riled up.
The difference is DeSantis will have to defend a radical legislative record, he is not going to run against Hillary Clinton and 2024 is not going to be a change election like 2016.
B - Criticize DeSantis, which legitimizes him as a contender, making for a MUCH harder race regardless of who the democratic frontrunner is.
A - Ignore DeSantis and hope that Trump wins the nomination because he's never won the popular vote, and was one of the worst presidents that we've ever had.
I don't know who the Republican nominee will be in 2024, but whoever it is, I can almost assure you they will lose the popular vote.
I can’t tell you how many comments I see dismissing him as uncharismatic and having “no chance” to win the primary.
He is even more dangerous than Trump and, unfortunately, at this point is more likely than any other person to be president in 2024 (at least according to betting markets).
He’s gone so far to the right and done so many flashy political stunts, in order to capture the minds of Trump’s base, it’s going to be impossible for him to tack back to the middle and seem reasonable. Somewhere along the line his handlers saw how Youngkin won in Virginia by being anti CRT and decided they could use the same strategy to persuade independents and right curious democrats into voting for DeSantis, while keeping the base angry and bloodthirsty. All he’s done is push moderate republicans away and made independents terrified of the possibility of him being president. He’s Bobby Jindal if Bobby Jindal decided to pander to the Tea Party with over the top bigotry and COVID fear mongering. He may very well win the Republican primary, but if Kari Lake, Doug Matriano and other republicans in his lane are anything to go by, then he’d get his ass whooped in a general election.