Could you give some explanation as to why you believe/how you have seen that cutting swords are more numerous and well known than thrusting swords? The truth of the matter is, is that most swords are capable of fulfilling both roles. While you may think of a sabre as an exclusive cutting weapon, you can actually thrust with it by aligning the point with the angle at which you thrust into your opponent. On the other hand, you may think of a rapier as being a thrust-only weapon, but historical fighting manuals often show cuts being thrown with rapiers to the head, arms or legs.
Another oversimplification, but as to the subject of different designs, it is generally easier to cut at opponents on the ground when on horseback than it is to thrust at them. This also explains the curve in many cut-centric swords, as it gives more of a surface area to align with the opponent's body when cutting at them. Attacking someone with a sword while also controlling a horse is difficult, so that extra surface area makes things easier.
I don't know much about sword fighting, but I would imagine that cutting was usually a safer bet than thrusting in the middle of a sword fight. Thrusting takes the whole lenh of the sword so it might not be possible to thrust if you're too close to your opponent. It's also not like he's an immovable target, he's a man fighting for his life, so swinging around with a sword with its entire lenh from many different angles has a higher chance of hitting him than a thrust that has to hit to the center mass from a certain narrow angle. One would also imagine missing a thrust leaves you to a more vulnerable position, since you have to pull the sword back instead of using its momentum to swing a bit more. How many thrusts you can make in succession, compared to swinging your sword around?
Very few swords can only perform one function. A katana might not be as optimal for thrusting as a longsword is, due to the shape of it's blade, but you can still thrust with it. Likewise, a rapier might not be as optimal for cutting as a sabre, but you can still cut with both.
I know quite a bit about longsword and rapier dueling and there in general thrusting is safer due to the increased range. If you are too close for a thrust you would be easily within grappling range which turns a swordfight into a wrestling match quite fast. According to the surviving historic manuals thrusting as well as cutting always double as both an attack and a defense. Momentum is not a big issue with proper footwork and when choosing the "right" move. I expect the main advantage of saber type swords is in mounted combat of light cavalery but I know much less about actual historic fighting in these cases.