"I shall pass over other cruel and inhuman conduct towards \[slaves\]; for we maltreat them, not as if they were men, but as if they were beasts of burden. When we recline at a banquet, one slave mops up the disgorged food, another crouches beneath the table and gathers up the left-overs of the tipsy guests....Another \[slave\], who serves the wine, must dress like a woman and wrestle with his advancing years; he cannot get away from his boyhood; he is dragged back to it; and though he has already acquired a soldier's figure, he is kept beardless by having his hair smoothed away or plucked out by the roots, and he must remain awake throughout the night, dividing his time between his master's drunkenness and his lust..." (Seneca, Ep. 47.5-7).
Roman ethical thinking on slavery was profoundly influenced by the Greek philosophical tradition(s). The Greeks eventually developed (some) scruples about enslaving one another - Plato, for example, suggests that the ideal city of the Republic would have no Greek slaves - but were generally at peace with the institution of slavery itself. Aristotle notoriously claimed that some men (i.e. barbarians) were natural slaves, born to obey those with greater self-mastery (i.e. Greeks). Stoicism, the Greek philosophical tradition most congenial to the Roman elite, claimed that all humans were equal in their potential to achieve wisdom. The Stoics, however, regarded physical slavery as less harmful than spiritual slavery to ambition and greed, and went no farther than advocating the humane treatment of slaves.
In conclusion, the Romans, similar to most ancient civilizations, practiced slavery and never really questioned its morality. No doubt there attitudes and laws around the institution may have been more complex due to the longevity of their society and the availability of our sources but they never considered it problematic in principle but instead normal. A facet of this topic not explored in this overview/answer is the subject of religious practice/attitudes. Roman paganism was not centered around internal faith and morality like it does in Christianity. The Romans gods did not care about your internal faith or "good deeds", they promised no internal heavenly afterlife where you were free from suffering like there is in Christianity; Roman paganism was focused on outward appearances, making pacts or deals with them like asking for them to give you protection or strenh in battle and you promising them to make sacrifices or build a temple in their honor. Simply put Roman religious practices and beliefs were not focused on morality; and the philosophies of the age, like Stoicism, were more focused on how to live your life and achieve the most from it/be the happiest you could be. Therefore, this is why you'll not find sources that discuss morality around slavery; it simply was never considered. Slavery, in Rome's super status driven society, was just another marker of one's status and how you could derive your own by not being a slave. Slavery offered an avenue for the Roman state to deal with a multitude of problems such as POWs (as seen even in the earliest times when in the 4th century B.C.E they captured the Etruscan town of Veii and roughly 5,000 of its inhabitants), punishment and resource for criminals (i,e forcing of men to enter gladiator schools and arenas), unwanted children, debt payment (not explored here), and various other economic areas (trading, mining, farming, etc.). Romans simply saw all these practices as normal and natural, their religious and philosophical beliefs never question it, the state used it as a tool for punishing the less-respected and criminals, it offered economic benefits to the rich, and remind the lowest citizens that even they have privileges and a better place in the Roman hierarchy than slaves.
Roman law eventually prohibited certain acts of cruelty; masters could not castrate their slaves, or sell them (without cause) as gladiators or prostitutes. Nor could masters kill their slaves without consulting a judge first. But slaves were still, indisputably, property; and since they were thought to lack a sense of honor, their bodies could be used as their masters saw fit ( I talk more about the sexual abuse of slaves in ).
Before the law, the slave was an object, they had no rights in that sense (the fundamental distinction of law being, as the Digests put it, that between free men and slaves). Someone of equal or similar status to the master would have had to plead the case to have access to later legal protections that came under Augustus and during the later Empire, and I think that the de jure legal protection afforded to slaves in some cases would only have been effective in the most egregious cases of mistreatment.