Nice, thanks for the reply. I did a bit of googling about Barton Regis and found this map of the Gloucestershire Hundreds boundaries in 1832 on wiki looks like my area was in the Barton Regis hundred until pretty recently although this part was mostly rural farms until after WW2 from what I gather.
As is always the case with Domesday, Bristol itself isn't actually listed, and it's most likely that Barton Regis is actually a suburb, even if it is itself walled. Bristol is mentioned - as Bristoll - in the context of the "Church of Bristol" (most likely St Mary Le Port) being a significant land owner in the area.
That's a toponymic phenomenon that's peculiar to what we might call "Old English" settlements: Those founded - or at least named - during the Anglo-Saxon period. While Old English can be a wonderfully poetic and descriptive language, its toponyms tend to be very utilitarian and functional: Tutbury (Tot-burh) was an enclosed watch-station, Saltwic (Droitwich) was a productive site for rock salt, Barton-apuđ-Brycgestoc (Bristol) was an enclosed town at the place with the bridge, etc.
Until the 1904 Corporation of Bristol Act, Barton Hill was part of Barton Regis, which is the name of both the settlement and the Anglo-Saxon Hundred it sat in. At this point, Barton Regis was largely based on what is now Eastville, but also extended to cover much of what is now Barton Hill, St George and Speedwell, so while Barton Hill is kind of named after the Domesday settlement, it is likely due to being the hill adjacent to the Bertune.
As you might imagine, these conventions meant that there was quite a lot of repetition in place names across England. Stoc (place), Burh-tun (enclosed settlement) and -ford are all very common toponymic elements. As such, locating elements are incorporated in order to aid differentiation. The enclosed town on the Trent (Burton-on-Trent) is thus distinguished from the enclosed town at the bridge over the Avon (Barton-apuđ-Bryggestoc), or indeed any of the other Burtons and Bartons across England. The other Stratford that immediately springs to mind is the one now in Greater London. Stratford 'upon Avon' is therefore a simple location distinction.
There is no county called Stradford on Avon, or even Stratford on Avon, so I'm not sure which Wikipedia page is telling you otherwise.
As you have correctly surmised, the "upon Avon" part is because its on the river Avon. In various cases in Britain we see such suffixes added to the place name to distinguish it from other similarly named places. For example, there are two places called Newcastle. The prominent city with the football (soccer) club is more properly known as Newcastle upon Tyne, which distinguishes it from the much smaller Newcastle under Lyme which is nowhere near it. You'd be right to guess that the Tyne, and Lyme elements of these names refer to nearby bodies of water.