In his parallel careers as a churchman and a politician, Gerald was fascinated (and often extremely frustrated) by the relationship between ethnicity and politics. His Welshness was a significant impairment to his church career, but a significant boost to his political one, as he was often assigned as a sort of advisor on Welsh politics and non-English culture more generally. Most notably, he was put in charge of recruiting Welshmen for the Third Crusade and was an attaché to several military campaigns in Ireland. However, his status as half-Welsh and half-Norman meant he experienced xenophobia from both groups and this eventually reached a tipping point when Gerald was accused of attempting to create a Welsh insurrection after his bid to become Bishop of St. David failed; a failure he blamed on his Welshness. He also sent off a letter to Pope Innocent III (because when you're imploding your career, why not?), in which Gerald complained that:
Gerald of Wales is a weird writer. He found himself with one foot in many cultural worlds. He was from Wales and identified as Welsh, but had a lot of Norman ancestry and was educated in England and France. He was a nobleman born into a Cambro-Norman family, but was raised with the intention of having a career in the church. Gerald was very keen on this church career, and it was always his dream to become the Bishop of St. David and raise it to the status of an archbishopric like Canterbury, but he never achieved this. Although he did achieve many other respected positions, such as being a teacher at the University of Paris and one of the men at the forefront of the twelfth century renaissance, he never found it satisfying. As a result, he turned to politics and found reliable and satisfying work as a civil servant in King Henry II's government, though he was always seeking employment in the church on the side.
Gerald of Wales makes these sorts of observations often, and suggests that forced contact with Norman culture will encourage them to shed these barbarous habits like long beards and cattle herding. Thing is, the factual content of these passages is broadly correct - Ireland was indeed far less urbanised than England at this time, cattle farming does seem to have been more common in Ireland than in England, and this style of dress does seem to have been common.
However, whilst the Irish seem to have been entirely content with their way of life, Gerald of Wales inherited from antiquity a notion of "civilisation" that was largely incompatible with Irish culture. Classical ideas of civilisation were in vogue in twelfth century Europe, with the commune movement pushing for urban autonomy and philosophers reviving the idea of res publica as a way of thinking about politics, as well as the revival of urban militia fighting in formation as an increasingly important component of warfare. Gerald of Wales was among the vanguard of this revival of classical ideas and their integration into medieval thought.
Great answer I wrote my dissertation partly on the way in which Gerald (and other Medieval writers) where taken up in the Tudor/Stuart period. I dealt solely with the negative aspects that those later writers were interested in, so it's pretty fascinating to see that he had a love of Irish music.