Attempts to aid hearing have been around since the 1600s, when the ear trumpet was developed.^ There have been on the ear trumpet, and indeed they remain an effective mechanical way of amplifying sound. They were used until the development of electric hearing aids at the end of the 19th century.
Within the Deaf community in the 19th century, hearing aids were simply not in widespread use. Sign language was the main form of communication, and people didn't use hearing aids much - they didn't need them. In the late 1860s, though, the western hearing world began pushing for deaf people to learn to speak and listen, and not use sign language. This effort was spearheaded by Alexander Graham Bell in the United States, and took firm hold following the 1880 Second International Congress on Education of the Deaf in Milan, Italy. The congress resolved that speech was superior to sign language, and that all deaf children should be taught to listen and speak. This resolution changed deaf education permanently in the western world; indeed, it is this split between manualism and oralism that drives the cochlear implant debate today. (For more on this, see Forbidden Signs: American Culture and the Campaign Against Sign Language by Douglas Baynton; see also the early 20th century films of sign language to .).
So hearing aid technology, by virtue of being nowhere near as good a "replacement" for natural hearing as cochlear implant technology, and by the parallel paths of the Deaf community and technological development, was never a threat to the Deaf community.
u/woofiegrrl provided an excellent answer to the historical aspect of amplification and the damage oralism did to Deaf culture, but it may help to have some modern context on just how WILDLY different these two technologies are.
Ear trumpets, though, have never been effective for severe to profound deafness; the amplification possible with such devices simply isn't that strong. People who used ear trumpets were typically late-deafened and already understood speech; they also were not fully deaf and more likely to associate only with hearing people.
Even with the mid-century development of transistors allowing for even better and smaller hearing aids, the Deaf community was on the rise. With the first academic paper on American Sign Language being published in 1960,^ and the return of sign language to the classroom in the form of in the 1970s, nobody felt threatened by hearing aids - community cohesion could even be said to be at an all-time high with the Deaf President Now movement in 1988, which had a . Many students in this time wore hearing aids - but they were predominantly to assist with environmental sounds and some communication. They didn't replace natural hearing at all - as cochlear implants are said to do.
Further, the cochleae of a person with hearing loss does not as well as that of a person with normal hearing. Woofiegrrl is right, hearing aids are not a corrective technology like glasses. They are more similar to prosthetic devices: they can add function to a damaged body part (by adding more sound in this case), but cannot replace the function of the original organ or limb. So even if we could make hearing aids infinitely loud, a person with a profound hearing loss is going to hear infinitely loud…garbage. For a Deaf adult that communicates manually (e.g. sign language, cued speech), a hearing aid can be a useful tool for sound awareness that in no way replaces the rich language they have access to with their hands and eyes.
To start, there are different types and severities of hearing losses, that all impact speech recognition in different ways. Audiologists refer to an when diagnosing hearing loss. Our focus for now is on the bottom of the graph, in the range of severe-to-profound hearing losses. Notice that there is no “deaf” label here! Deafness is not a diagnosis of pathology; it is a .
A person with a profound hearing loss gets limited benefit from a hearing aid, in more ways than one. A hearing aid can make sounds louder, yes, but just how loud can you go? Surprisingly, a person with a profound hearing loss usually has the same Uncomfortable Listening Level (UCL) as someone with normal hearing. What changes is the dynamic range of hearing. Where a person with normal hearing may hear very soft sounds at 20 decibels of hearing level (dBHL) and very loud sounds at 100dBHL, a person with a profound hearing loss may hear very soft sounds at 90dBHL and very loud sounds at 100dBHL. This presents technical challenges for amplification (i.e. hearing aids), since it is difficult to squeeze 80dB of sound into such a narrow window of comfort. ().