I do not believe they went to probate court. I think they went to court to determine if the trust was valid. Is that the same as probate court?
Why wasn't probate done? Because there were no assets to be probated and because all assets were already in the trust?
Probate needs to be done now so that the home can be titled into the trust and then the sale can proceed properly and legally.
It would grant him more ownership, but it would also require that the home go through probate. It sounds like they want to sell now, not after a two-year probate case. It’s curious that the judge denied their petition, the reasoning is sound, the father should not have transferred his ownership interest as an individual, he should’ve done it as trustee of the trust. But the judge apparently overlooked that or considered it a simple mistake in title, so where that leaves all three children is that the father’s 50% share of the house has to go through probate, and it should be distributed according to father’s will. So it will end up as 75% C1, 25% C2, since you said child 3 was disinherited. It’s also possible that when father disinherited child three he changed the trust also, so that child three did not receive an equal share of the trust proceeds. Overall it sounds like the judge was basically deciding that the father’s testamentary intent was to disinherit child three, so he made a ruling that would be consistent with that. Father’s attempted transfer of his half to child one and child two, combined with father’s will disinheriting child three, is pretty clear evidence that father did not intend for child three to inherit any portion of the house.
Child 1, for some reason, is arguing that the transfer is not valid because the father signed it as himself (who no longer had an ownership interest in the property) and not within his capacity as trustee of his trust.
Since the court refused to confirm that the property is a trust asset and thus owned 75% Child 1 and 25% Child 2 (according the the grant deed that was signed by the father), why go through probate?
I guess the question is: if the court refused to confirm trust ownership of the father's 50% of the property, does that automatically validate the grant deed to Child 1 and Child 2, leaving them with 75% and 25% ownership? And child 3 with nothing. Or is the father's share in "limbo" and that's why it requires probate?
However, Child 3 was "disinherited" when the father granted his share in the trust to Child 1 and Child 2.
Since then, however, Child 1 and 2 do not want to share. Which is why Child 3 refused to vacate the property for the past 3.5 years.
If child 3 wants an eviction on his record, he can force the homeowners to get a judgment of possession against him. Not sure what the timeline of that would be these days because evictions were halted for so long and courts are just going to be opening back up. Probably a matter of weeks, maybe as long as a month or two if everything is done right by the owners. Then if he wants to create a really bad situation, he can wait for the sheriff to forcibly remove him when they come to clear the home, with guns drawn, so that the homeowner can change the locks and retake possession. Child 3 does not want an eviction on his record. At all. So those latter two options are very bad plans.