Thanks so much! Just got around to reading this through and it was fascinating and informative and not the sort of summary that I’d find easy to find. .
Maybe a sillier one, but what extent did the likes of Chrétien de Troyes probably understand that Britain had not been French-speaking in the supposed Arthurian era? After all, he wrote only one century after the Norman conquest and must have been aware of English and Brythonic languages. Or was this purely a consciously fictional convention of convenience?
If Breton tradition was not the main transmitter, is the view that Geoffrey of Monmouth was the most influential transmitter of the Matter or Britain to France, or just one of many, most now unknown?
\-Geoffrey of Monmouth is certainly the single most influential named transmitter of the Matter of Britain, not only to France but to anywhere outside the Brittonic world (though I think we shouldn't discount the significant boost provided by Wace's octosyllabic version!) However, there is some degree of mystery here. The Modena archivolt, even if likely not as old as Loomis wanted it to be, is still very possibly older than Geoffrey's work; and, in any event, the adventure it portrays does not occur in Geoffrey. (Loomis's idea that the archivolt displays a version of "the abduction of Guinevere" is still frequently cited, but, in my opinion, is completely incorrect.) So there seems to have been at least some continental circulation of the mythos prior, or at least parallel, to Geoffrey--though with the exception of a few hagiographies that mention Arthur, we don't have a great sense of what these earlier versions could possibly have looked or sounded like.
The most straightforward accounting for Arthur’s popularity outside his native turf points to the work of Geoffrey of Monmouth and Wace. You mention Wace in your question, so I assume you’re somewhat familiar with his contributions, but just to summarize: Geoffrey, a cleric from the Anglo-Welsh border, completed his Historia Regum Britanniae (“History of the Kings of Britain”) by 1139. In accessible Latin prose, he told the stories of Britain’s pre-Saxon kings from Aeneas’s great-grandson, Brutus, who wrested the islands from tribes of primordial giants, to Cadualadrus (Cadwallader), who died in the late seventh century. At the center of the book, alongside other future blockbusters like King Lear and Cymbeline, is the first written account that offers a complete life of King Arthur (Arturus), from conception to death. Elements as central to the modern canon as Arthur’s connection to a conjurer/half-demon named Merlin and his ultimate betrayal by his nephew Modred appear for the first time in the HRB. Issues with Geoffrey’s sources (or the lack thereof) have been raised since his own era, and there is undoubtedly a great deal of invention and innovation in the HRB alongside borrowings from Latin histories, chronicles, and saints’ lives; Cornish folklore; Welsh prophetic and perhaps heroic poems/sagas; classical allusions; and contemporary political resonances. These diverse influences also contributed to the polyvalent ways that Geoffrey’s work was received. It could be read as prefiguring Norman hegemony in its vision of Arthur’s continental empire, or as justifying the conquest and colonization of li bretuns since their fall from imperial grandeur; or as promoting a vision of once-and-future Brittonic greatness (certainly the Welsh seemed to understand it this way); or as presenting an essentially fantastic saga, an exercise in speculative worldbuilding that invited contributions from those with no particular cultural or political connections to the origins of the mythos.
Loomis imagined that the literary manifestations of the Arthurian legend which appeared in Latin and French by the mid-12th century were underpinned by the work of Breton storytellers, “conteurs,” who told their traditional tales in the multilingual courts of Norman lords across France, England, the Welsh Marches, Italy, and beyond. For Loomis, these Breton stories were fairly unsophisticated and anonymous oral compositions, which the named authors of later texts adapted into more self-consciously literary forms. But as scholars such as Constance Bullock-Davies and Patrick Sims-Williams have pointed out, actual evidence for such Breton conteurs is very sparse. Sims-Williams’s 1998 article, essentially answers its titular question with a “probably not.” The article critiques Loomis’s ideas of the hierarchical relationship between oral and written cultures, and points out that while medieval allusions suggest “Breton entertainers were sometimes to be heard, ...they are not a rich harvest.” As an alternative, Sims-Williams points to Constance Bullock-Davies’s 1965 lecture “Professional Interpreters and the Matter of Britain,” which focused on the role of “latimers,” professional translators who fulfilled various diplomatic, administrative, and sociocultural functions at 12th-century Anglo-Norman courts. Sims-Williams also offers his own suggestion, that the transmission of Arthurian material from local Brittonic to international/continental contexts may be tied to the use of Arthurian snippets as exempla or nugae, short Latin texts collected for edificatory or entertaining purposes and circulated widely in both clerical and courtly circles. It is perhaps worth remembering that the roles of conteur/latimer/cleric/courtier were not necessarily mutually exclusive--a figure like Walter Map may be illustrative of this kind of professional flexibility.