Several books could be written on the subjects raised by this post. Besides the answers in the links, we can consider a few things. First, I'm not sure what is meant by the term "ancient mythology." Almost everything that is known about Northern European elves and their kin is from pre-modern/pre-industrial folklore collections of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. In addition, there are some examples from medieval literature that allude to beliefs that are apparently related and are precursors of what was documented several centuries later by the first European folklorists.
Because Bray was extremely popular and she worked with a variety of fairy from south west Britain that was usually described in small form, the popular imagination of the literate English-speaking world (which was detached from pre-modern folklore) began to think of fairies/elves as small.
After Bray, other authors began looking to the body of folklore associated with the array of related supernatural beings as inspiration for their writings. Again, volumes could be written on this, but there is no question that when Tolkien dipped into this well, he set a standard that had a profound influence on subsequent literature in the genre.
Tolkien by-passed the small pixies of Bray, entities that dominated much of subsequent literary adaptations of the nineteenth and early twentieth century. Instead, Tolkien returned to the more stately, human-sized examples. Traditions from Wales and parts of Scandinavia can be regarded as similar to the motif as expressed by Tolkien. There are many who have delved into this more thoroughly than I have, but it is clear that by working with the Northern European body of tradition, drawing on examples other than the smallish pixy, Tolkien re-calibrated the way the English-speaking world thought of elves.
However, there is a sign in the later legendary sagas of a folk belief in human-sized elves, much more akin to the Perilous Realm found in some of Tolkien's pre-Hobbit writings. Specifically, Hrolfs saga kraka has a human-sized elf queen, who a certain King Helgi has a daughter with. This daughter, Skuld, eventually kills her half-brother, the titular Hrolfr. Similarly, the Thidreks saga account of the Niflungar gives them elven ancestry, reminiscent of Elrond Half-elven and the kings of Westernesse.