Thanks for this comment. I read Frontinus' just now, and I may have conflated the relative impact of the two tactics. Essentially, according to Frontinus, Caesar had "the fleetest of his foot-soldiers, men trained in cavalry fighting" amongst his cavalry, and the six reserve cohorts which "routed \[Pompey's cavalry\] by an unexpected onset.".
Yes. From the Greek side, which is by far the better documented, we have effectively no evidence that they knew of the peoples beyond the Rhine and Danube. Indeed, Herodotos claimed outright that the lands north of the Danube were uninhabitable (because of too many bees, apparently). This shows the extent of his ignorance. We know that later Greeks had some more intense interaction with the Dacian people of the region immediately across the Danube in modern Romania (Lysimachos, one of the successors of Alexander, was captured trying to subdue them) but there doesn't seem to have been any contact with Germanic tribes.
This troop type later becomes a particular feature of the Theban levy in mainland Greece. Already in 418 BC, we are told that the army they sent in support of the Spartand at Mantineia contained 500 hamippoi - the technical term for this kind of light-armed warrior. The name seems to suggest that they accompanied horses, and in fact we have vase paintings of men running along with horsemen by holding on to the horse's tail. This is exactly the kind of fighting style Caesar describes for the Germanic horse runners.
Of course, it is far from certain that Caesar's unspecified cavalry acted exactly like this, nearly two centuries earlier. Caesar does describe how the German cavalry fight,which is quite different:
Either way, if Caesar did use the tactic at Pharsalus, it does not seem to have made much difference. His massively outnumbered cavalry was beaten back either way. Caesar's much more famous stratagem here was taking 6 cohorts from his third line, and concealing these behind his cavalry as a fourth line of heavy infantry. It was this hidden fourth line that surprised Pompeius' victorious cavalry, drove them off, and won Caesar the battle.