I had always been under the impression that, between the two cultures and languages, french had always been seen as somewhat more "prestigious" than english, so it comes a bit as a surprise that the french nobility would try to identify as english. Can I ask what was the context to this and why and when exactly did it happen/stop? Thanks!
I hope this was helpful! Please let me know if I can clarify anything or provide further resources. For an overview of the English Arthurian tradition, I’d recommend The Arthur of the English, ed. W. R. J. Barron (2011). Two articles that address this topic in regard to Layamon specifically are Daniel Donaghue’s “Laȝamon’s Ambivalence” (Speculum 65, 1990) and Jonathan Davis-Secord’s “Revising Race in Laʒamon's Brut” (The Journal of English and Germanic Philology 116, 2017.).
To my second point, several parts of England--particularly Cornwall, Herefordshire, and Cumbria--have as good a claim as anywhere to the Arthurian myth. Squabbles over a "Northern" vs a "Southern/Cornish" Arthur obscure the fact that we have good early evidence for the Arthurian legend in both regions (as well as in Wales itself, and in Brittany). Insofar as Cornwall is English, Arthur is too; there's little basis for viewing the myth as a later import to the region. Arthurian folklore may well have survived in these regions even as the populations became Anglicized, along with their stories and heroes. (A process not complete in Cornwall until well into the 18th century, I should add!).
A few points to make here. The first is that stories about Arthur fighting the Saxons may never have been especially popular before their proliferation in historical fiction novels of the 20th and 21st century. Secondly, there are several parts of England that have a good claim on being home to the earliest identifiable strata of Arthurian legend; in these places, it may be less a matter of the mythos "taking off" than of it belonging to these places originally. Lastly, though (and this is perhaps the crux of your question!), the spread and appropriation of the Arthurian legend outside of Brittonic-speaking areas is linked to the rise of Anglo-Norman and Angevin cultural power across Western Europe throughout the 12th century. It is this phenomenon that lies behind the earliest Arthurian text in English, Layamon's (also spelled Laȝamon’s) Brut (c. 1200).
As for the adoption of the Arthurian legend in the rest of England, the key text is Layamon’s Brut. This is an adaptation into archaic early Middle English of Wace’s Old French Brut (c. 1155) itself a poetic adaptation of Geoffrey of Monmouth’s Historia Regum Britanniae. The HRB was an immensely popular and influential text, and Wace’s version further contributed to its spread by rendering Geoffrey’s Latin prose into lively vernacular verse. (Wace also added some fun details, like the concept of the Round Table.) There’s an inherent ambivalence in these works about the status of the Britons, since their sources included Welsh heroic literature, prophetic poems envisioning a glorious Welsh reconquista, clerical excoriations of British sinfulness, and contemporary views of the Welsh as backward people ripe for subjugation and incorporation into the English king’s domains. At the same time, these accounts also highlighted the pagan wickedness of the Saxons, as opposed to the Christianity of the Britons--a situation nullified, or even reversed, by the Saxons’ eventual conversion. Depicting a glorious kingdom based in Britain but with continental ambitions, Geoffrey & Wace’s narrative of Arthur was embraced by Angevin nobles and monarchs. In this context, Arthur’s Brittonic origins were downplayed; Chrétien de Troyes confidently declares that Arthur’s court spoke proper French.