Since when is HIPAA is the end of the road for privacy torts? Most states have statutory privacy torts for things like this, and Texas even has common law causes of action as described in its seminal privacy case, Billings v. Atkinson, 489 S.W.2d 858, 859 (Tex. 1973). Industrial Found. Of the South v. Texas Indus. Accident Bd., 540 S.W.2d 668, 682 (Tex. 1976), develops that right to privacy further as applied to public disclosures of private information.
Everyone else covered the HIPAA stuff, but there's some misinformation in this thread concerning your ability to sue. It might be worth your time to consult with an attorney. I don't know what kind of damages can be claimed for your situation, but Texas does have some statutes and common law that create a private right of action in this situation, like and , concerning wrongful disclosures of private healthcare information by hospitals and physicians, respectively.
Again, I'd consult with an attorney to avoid any sort of weird Texas-mumbo-jumbo here before you do so as I do not know about Texas and their specific slander laws, etc., but reporting her to her employer is at least potentially helpful to you and others (removes an untrustworthy person from working at a medical facility), and might make you feel slightly better.
2. Confront the person who you believe violated your privacy in a controlled, public environment. , "It seems you used your access to private information without my consent. Why did you do this?" (Note, I would only do this if I was not planning on pursuing legal action against them, and regardless, I would attempt to record the conversation.
Yes, that was a violation of HIPAA and related privacy laws. It's also just a general abuse of access to private information. The person who did this is a fool, as they could be fired for that, etc.
If so, that could be grounds for a lawsuit, if you felt so inclined. (NAL... consult an attorney in your area!) However, do keep in mind that you'd likely have to prove damages, etc., and that may be difficult in this situation. It may not be worth your time (and money) to do anything about this via the legal system.