To summarize: We don't know the full extent of dairy consumption. We have evidence related to elite consumption, and recent scholarship has revised the prevalence of dairy upwards for elites, but popular consumption outside of the North is very uncertain.
Regarding (3) at the end, do believe it might be accurate to suppose that lactose tolerance arose in Europe because of longstanding and deeply entrenched habits of consuming dairy, as opposed to the other way around?
The earlier linked answer discusses this at greater lenh, but the areas in Europe with the highest lactose tolerance reached those rates primarily through immigration by pastoralist groups around 2600 BC, so the lactose tolerance didn't really arise "in europe," instead it immigrated in subsequently.
There are typically higher rates of lactose tolerance in Pastoralist groups, so there does seem to be some level of genetic advantage in the way you imply. But lactose-tolerance is also a dominant rather than recessive gene, which plays a part in the spread of the gene.
The development of lactose tolerance in Europe is pretty well-established as a genetic trait that emerged around 2500 BCE, that's been all but proven through historical DNA analysis. I think you missed this section of the answer, though; the elites consumed dairy products _that no longer had lactose_:
But she does argue that Cheese consumption was more widespread among elites than previously indicated.
So no, there was not a recorded point where cheeses fell out of favor among the people who traditionally ate them. Though very recent history has seen a rise in dairy consumption, and a transition from regional/ethnic/elite consumption to more widespread consumption In China and across East Asia.
But I would say Yuan and Manchu elites consuming dairy are also pretty firmly a part of East Asian history, which is what OP asked about.
Cheese and dairy products have been staple of the area that constitutes modern Northern China for thousands of years. There is a general North/South culinary divide in China where the Northern diet consumes grain (grain, sorghum, millet, etc) rather than rice, and consumes forms of dairy such as butter while the south consumes much more cooking oil. But H.T. Huang stresses that dairy has been minor but present in mainstream Chinese cuisine for thousands of years, with literary references to dairy products going back 1500 years.