If you're taking about Edison and Tesla, the main topic is usually AC (alternating current) vs DC (direct current) power grid. Tesla was a proponent of AC power, while Edison was a proponent of DC power. AC ultimately went on to become the standard and is often associated with Tesla, though he didn't invent it and he wasn't the only proponent. So Tesla is the most well remembered proponent of the electrical distribution system that runs the lightbulb, not the lightbulb itself.
Tesla's name is often mentioned in the context of the lightbulb, as he was involved with Thomas Edison, commonly, although incorrectly credited with invention of the lightbulb. Initially, Tesla worked for Edison's company in France and later went to USA to meet him personally. Subsequently he worked for him, but having not received agreed remuneration for his work, he left the company and started his own business and, being the proponent of the alternating current, started a cooperation with George Westinghouse, Edison's main competitor in the 'war of the currents'.
Tesla's inventions are often romanticized by embellishing more esoteric parts of his research, this inventor pursued since mid 1910s, primarily the free energy generation, wireless energy transfer or the ideas of 'electric death ray'. giving birth to conspiracy theories that these theories were valid, but were confiscated by government or suppressed by the electric lobby. In reality, these ideas were theoretical extensions of the radioelectric experiments and today we know that they were incorrect (e.g. the concept of 'free energy' was essentially based on self-propelling of the generator by its own power what has been demonstrated to be impossible, at least in the way Tesla envisioned it and wireless transfer of energy is prone to dissipation, making it useless, especially given the low cost and reliability of simple wire transfer).
Electricity is a natural phenomenon, so it could have not been invented, only discovered. This said, until 1930s it could have been said that the practical experiments concerning electricity or, to be more precise, creation an usage of the electric charge begun somewhere in mid-17th century. In 1936 a discovery in Mesopotamia challenged this notion when Wilhelm König found a small jar filled with asphalt and fitted with copper and iron rods during his excavation near Khujut Rabu, close to the location of the ancient city of Ctesiphon. Due to the proximity of the site to the modern capital of Iraq, the mysterious device became commonly known as 'Baghdad battery'. Although no descriptions of similar items are known to exist, subsequent excavation of more specimens led researchers to a conjecture, that such devices were indeed wet batteries using vinegar as the electrolyte and most likely utilized to electro-plate small items with gold. It is still not currently known whether this was the case (there is a strong evidence that the items were gilded through the thermal amalgamate process and the design of the battery is somewhat lacking). Assuming these actually were batteries, we also do not known whether users of these items even the simplest understanding of the principle behind the operation of the device or was it rather a result of a luck or trail-and-error process. Nevertheless, 'Baghdad battery', dated to the Sassanian period (early 3rd to mid-7th century CE) is often cited as the oldest known electrical device in the world, although veracity of this claim is still disputed.
And while we're at it, . It is a an older invention that has been around in its initial form years before either of them has even been born.