If the renovations are performed in accordance with all local laws, you cannot prevent them from making such renovations simply because your property is viewable through their property's windows.
Different cities will have different zoning laws about things like privacy and loss of views, but in most places I know, your privacy and your view are not legally protected from neighboring construction like this.
To make a long story short, unless the neighbor is doing some unpermitted illegal construction, your best path is probably to have a friendly conversation with them about your shared privacy interests.
Your first and best option is to go talk with the neighbor. Be nice. Ask what their plans are, and what it will look like when finished. Request to see a copy of the building plan documents. Explain your concerns about two-way visibility with your bathroom and kitchen, and overall privacy. Ask if they would consider modifying the design in some way, like orienting windows in a different direction, or putting the windows above line-of-sight, or adding a trellis or privacy screening of some kind. The potential privacy problem will affect the other house's owner and the resale value too, so if they're smart they should be willing to work with you on this.
Now for the legal part. The kind of renovation work you're describing would require a building permit from the city, which should be posted somewhere at the work site. In the off chance they're doing this unpermitted, you can inform the city and they'll shut it down ASAP. But assuming they have the required permit, for a major construction project like this, in most cities I know the immediate neighbors should have received advance notice from the city before the work even started. You should have had a chance to review the plans, and raise any concerns then. Then the building plans would go to the city's planning commission or planning department for formal approval. You would have had another opportunity to raise concerns then. Is it possible you received some notification about all this in your mail over the past months?