What are your options? It's generally not criminal to not pay your debts back, and it shouldn't be. Criminalizing debt is about as slippery of a slope as legalizing slavery. And that's not an over exaggeration if you take the time to learn about debtors prisons and debt peonage you'll see exactly what I mean.
And that is how it works generally speaking. It's on the plaintiff to make sure the debt is being repaid according to the courts demands as they are the ones who the debt is owed to. If your debt is only worth a few hundred dollars its not worth the time, energy or money to go after that though, and we shouldn't just be arresting people when the plaintiff decides they're done trying to collect on a debt. It's not like there is no punishment for being an untrustworthy debtor.
Not paying back debts you are able to pay should be criminal. If you can’t pay, the court should work out a payment plan that is mandatory. Garnish wages. Etc.
yes. takes 2/3 of congress to expel him. After this, the Dems would retake the seat in a special election for sure, so the last thing McCarthy needs (assuming McCarthy gets a position where he cares, tomorrow), or anyone in the GOP, is to go from 222-213 down to 221-214. You go from 5 Republicans together needed to pull a "Manchin" to 4.
(Recall Cohen's offense - which sent him to jail - was specifically a campaign finance violation because he paid Stormy Daniels hush money from his own pocket (later reimbursed) to keep her out of the news during the campaign, hence an illegal contribution to campaign expenses.).
We had that young college student (Amanda Knox) who was railroaded for murder in Italy and went through how many legal hurdles before they let her go (and still insist now she's guilty). I can imagine a national soccer hero is probably not someone Brazil wants to hand over to someone else's justice, although I don't know any details of the case.
Robinho is not a "national soccer hero", it's just Brazil never extradites its own citizens for crimes they commited in another countries, it's the law for any citizen.