Thanks for that. Republican leadership truly is ridiculous. And the voters that empower their incompetence while not holding them accountable for providing them literally nothing are even more absurd..
If I've learned anything from the Obama years, the Republicans will grind the government to a halt all the way up to the next election, blame the President for it, and then the people will believe them and elect another lunatic.
They'll try it for that very reason - they've already primaried away or purged out most of the """moderate""" Republicans in each consecutive election cycle.
I'd say people have woken up, at least I sufficient volume that the Tory party won't win the next election and will struggle for at least a decade afterwards. The problem is we're still near enough 2 years away from them being required to hold a general election, so they'll be milking the emaciated cow until then. Things are going to get much worse in the next few years as the true costs of Brexit are fully realised, and removed from the shroud of the pandemic.
What followed was the two worst Prime Ministers probably in our history, corruption on a scale I'd never imagined could happen in this country, and a Brexit deal that has permanently damaged our international standing, our economy, and the fabric of our society.
Unlike WillSym, I'm a bit less pessimistic about the opposition. The Keir Starmer Labour party have some good ideas that reddit is unwilling to give them credit for, combined with a decent degree of pragmatism to hopefully remain electable. The major difficulty will be that they're going to inherit a shitshow with few obvious solutions, and the historically Murdoch-media are more likely to blame them than the current government that caused it. They'll also need to contend with dissention within their own ranks which again historically have helped their opponents frame them as chaotic.
We laughed when Theresa May lost her majority in a GE she didn't need to call. We chortled when she couldn't pass her Brexit deal through Parliament. And we giggled as she resigned in failure.