Harold Temperley – the British historian who had recently come back from the Yugoslav regions to work as an adviser at the Peace Conference – observed in his private annotations that the statement had indeed been "very noble". He was also of the opinion that "Fiume meant war in two or three years", a view he had shared with Kerr, Balfour and Lloyd George on the 21^st and 22^nd of April.
The Avanti! reported on a meeting held at the Roman Giornale d'Italia - the nationalist newspaper, at the time closest to Sonnino – with former members of the Fascio Parlamentare, to organize a public movement invoking from the Government the adoption of "every mean available" to safeguard the Italian rights.
Meanwhile the Corriere della Sera - the main voice of the Italian democratic interventionism – took the side of the government (despite Albertini's reservations on the diplomatic conduct, privately expressed to Orlando two weeks before) with an express denunciation of the practices hidden behind the facade of the new international order.
This was, according to him, "the universal view" – and he might have somewhat overestimated the belligerent attitude of both sides, or failed at least to read correctly into the proclamations of national sentiment: no matter their desires and aspirations, and despite Prime Minister Orlando proclaiming his "firm belief" in the Italian people being ready "to face new dangers and to suffer through more sacrifices", the Italian masses at least dreaded war more than they wanted Fiume, as the elections of November would prove later on. And already in the last days of April, discussing the Italian position at the Peace Conference, socialist leader Filippo Turati had conjured the rhetorical ghastly presence of "another war - how can you even think of that?".
\, and . You hear many percussion textures (GONGS!) in Exhibit A that are reminiscent of Chinese Opera (as well as tell-tale Orientalist signifier of pentatonicism). In exhibit B you hear timbres that can be described as more "nasally", a common feature of Chinese traditional music. \[2\] \[3\].
3. French forces at Dunkirk fought and died, and were deliberately sacrificed to shield the retreating British army from German attack.