Your insurance can determine if the shop holds some or all liability regarding the loss. Your insurance would go after their insurance if they feel there is negligence. There are policies that shops can purchase called garage keepers liability that would cover in this type of situation. From my experience it’s much quicker to go through your own comprehensive coverage instead of waiting on the commercial policy investigation.
File with your insurance if you have comprehensive coverage. They should offer you the actual cash value of your vehicle if it is totaled or unrecoverable. That would be the market price for similar vehicles when it comes to features and mileage. So it should be higher than that carvana price would be my guess (carvana needs to make a profit so they aren’t buying your used car for more than they can sell it).
You might be able to claim loss of use or reimbursement for a rental car if you needed alternate transportation.
You're not a dealership buying a used vehicle that you intend to resale. Your insurance company needs to pay you retail value.
If 5 2014 Toyota Camry LEs or whatever are selling for $12k-14k with 70,000 miles then guess what? The insurance company needs to pony up $12k-$14k. Don't give an inch. Their first offer is probably going to be extremely low. Do your research.
If your auto insurance company gives you any gruff compile 3-5 ads for similar optioned/mileage etc vehicles like yours and show what they're listed for.
In any case, pull up several ads and prices for vehicles similar to yours and with similar equipment, mileage, etc. Pull out the 3 or 4 with the HIGHEST prices - this is no time to try to be "fair". I can pretty much guarantee the insurance company is going to be using the comparables from vehicles with the lowest prices. Also closely look at what they are using for comparables to see if they actually match the trim level, mileage, upgrades, etc for your vehicle, if they can't find an exact match they are probably going to compare to a vehicle with less features, more mileage, etc instead of a vehicle better equipped than yours was.