Not a reason not to do it. He will do his worst either way. The thing to do is help Ukraine defeat his worst efforts.
To be clear, the very fact Ukraine got anything at all is what let them survive against the crappy Russian army. Further, you conveniently ignore the javelins, Nlaws and Himars that are by no means junk. This is exactly what I mean when I say people underlay the role of the west.
We like to shit o the russian army a ton, but we gloss over the fact that NATO is tilting the scales quite a bit. If this were an actual conflict between just ukraine and Russia the ukrainians would have run out of equipment eons ago. They would also be much less succesful in their efforts to accurately bomb ammo depots and destroy bridges due to lack of Himars and intelligence.
There's also the fact that Russia is actively mishandling this whole thing by not properly mobilising from the start, but just not having Javelins/Nlaws early in the war could have been eough to seal Ukraines fate.
Yeah that is true but the weapons that are being sent to Ukraine are pretty much the hand me downs maybe besides a couple but the majority of the the weapons is shit the US and nato doesn't even really use. This shows how far behind the supposedly 2nd best military in the world is. And If I was the second best military power in the world I wouldn't necessarily brag about beating down a country like Ukraine if they had no help. It isn't like they are some huge military power on their own. And they gave up their nuke or nukes to Russia in return the promise of never interfering with them. So we see how Russia keeps its word. But i believe the US is bound to help as well after they gave up their WMD.
Hold on now. I didn't say all the weapons were crap.. I know that they got some top notch kinda shit. For sure. Idk if you didn't read my comment right. But I said for the most part they got the hand-me-downs. But yeah most certainly they got some good shit indeed.
Wow that could actually work. A legal precedent back by quite a lot of countries. Is more diplomatic than just taking money of other countries jaja.