Your question presupposes that Washinon's government was considered tyrannical, does it not? Washinon - and other members of the government at the time - clearly felt as if the Federal government was acting well within its legal authority, not only to levy the tax, but also to suppress the rebellion. However, Washinon's actions during the rebellion also show that he was extremely careful about his actions, and how his actions would be viewed by the wider populace, as I will show.
However, it was clearly defined that the president had the legal authority to call the militia from neighboring states to act against the rebels, if necessary.
I mean the militia as a whole; in other words, the legal and political idea of a force of armed citizenry becoming entrenched in the United States legal apparatus.
Could you please clarify if by "militia" you mean the Regulators or the militia raised by the government to oppose them?
In either case, after the rebellion, was the Regulators militia generally perceived, by the state of MA and/or the members of the constitutional convention, as being legal? That is, if the 2nd Amendment had already existed, would they have been seen as exercising that right?
If it was only the words of the second amendment to go on, though, this is still incredibly vague and difficult to parse. So much of the wording was based in a cultural context that changed almost immediately, and from the perspective of 2019, this statement is confusing, grammatically complicated, and frustratingly non-specific. Later acts, however, clarified its meaning somewhat. In 1792, congress enacted two Militia Acts: to establish the legal framework in which the president was authorized to embody the militia, and to set down the framework in which this militia was organized. The first act gave the president the authority to call out the militia "whenever the United States shall be invaded, or be in imminent danger of invasion from any foreign nation or Indian tribe," and further, "... and in case of an insurrection in any state, against the government thereof... to call forth such number of the militia of any other state or states... to suppress such insurrection.".