Anyway, I wrote a very long and detailed post about why Tibet was ignored in terms of Domino Theory. The tl;dr is that aside from the general and specific ignorance in American culture and politics as it regarded Asia, Tibet itself was always always regarded as unreliable at best, and suspicious at worst. When Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th and current Dalai Lama, went to India upon the People's Liberation Army marching on Lhasa, the CIA approached him and offered to support and supply him with money and weapons to push back against the Communists. The Dalai Lama decided instead of expanding hostilities, to go back to Tibet and try to work with the Chinese. The CIA went directly to Khampa fighters from then on, circumventing the Dalai Lama to go right to where the fighting was anyway.
That said the timeline doesn't line up to me. The counterculture of the 1960s seems like it was very much concerned primarily with Vietnam. Fascination with Tibet and Buddhism predates the Tibetan diaspora and starts really with mystic and racist liar Helena Blavatsky and the Theosophy movement at the end of the 19th Century. But the association of Tibet and Buddhism with what could very loosely be called "counter culture" probably has a lot more to do with 1989 and the Dalai Lama's reception of the Nobel Peace Prize. Students for a Free Tibet (SFT) was given a lot of free publicity and support. The award had its own interesting internal effect in the Tibetan community, but it also seemed to be the first real entry of Tibet into wider western culture.
My point was that in 1946 when Tibet first sought international recognition, Chiang Kai-shek had not yet lost, which made it problematic for the US to recognise Tibet.
To add to what u/JimeDorje has written about the practical issues, another factor that contributed to American inaction was that the US had already acknowledged China's sovereignty over Tibet during WWII - this was something that Chiang Kai-shek pushed for and got. The British had acknowledged China's sovereignty decades earlier. Neither the US nor the UK had recognised Tibet as a sovereign state. In part, this was because Tibet had not sought such recognition since they had declared themselves independent of China with the fall of the Qing Dynasty until after WWII, at which point Tibet could not be recognised without alienating the Republic of China and breaking wartime promises to Chiang Kai-shek.
Once the Dalai Lama went back to Tibet and acknowledged Chinese suzerainty/sovreignty (depending on who asks and when) over Tibet, the United States basically abandoned the very concept of an independent Tibetan state. The implication was, of course, that if the Dalai Lama had maintained a strict continuous position of Tibetan independence and sovreignty, they would have supported him from exile, either from India, Sri Lanka, or Thailand.