This questioning is probably the greatest value of the book. If you have read one of the Big Books you have probably heard a particular narrative of the development of human society, and this book relentlessly questions it by providing counter narratives and counterexamples. Humanity used to live in small, egalitarian and mobile hunter gatherer bands–not so fast says Graeber and Wengrow, what about x and y–then agriculture came along with notions of property and hierarchy–not so fast says the book, where is the evidence for that–then cities formed requiring hierarchical administrative apparatuses–not so fast, when you look at early cities–eventually leading to the formation of states and empires–but, the book says, have you considered these other cases? I suspect much of the reason the book has made an impact is because many people are being introduced to societies they have never heard of before, or even if they have heard of Cucuteni–Trypillia and the Nuer people of Sudan, they may not have seen them both in the same book.
This does come with a caveat. I cannot think of times when the book intersected with an area I have much familiarity with and said anything outright wrong (there are a couple things, like how it offhandedly uses Athens and Greece as an example of “schismogenesis” that made me roll my eyes, but it is not really misinformation). But it does often assert a position in a contentious debate without properly considering the alternate interpretations–something acknowledged in the text with the statement that "had we tried to outline or refute every existing interpretation of the material we covered, this book would have been two or three times the size, and likely would have left the reader with a sense that the authors are engaged in a constant battle with demons who were in fact two inches tall.” I think this is a problem if you are coming into the book wanting to learn about a particular topic, I would not recommend this book as a way of learning about, say, the Harappan culture because it does not do a particularly good job of summarizing the evidence and arguments about it. But that is not what the book is for, and I would recommend it for anyone interested in early urbanism more broadly as a clear and forceful articulation of a particular position. To put this in concrete terms, if you were to say to me that Harappan cities do not have visible signs of hierarchy therefore they would have been governed in a non-hierarchical fashion, I would say hold your horses there. But if you were to take a large collection of early cities, show that they developed as urban forms well before any signs of hierarchy or administrative centralization, and then say look at all these examples this shows that the narrative of early city formation as being inherently hierarchical are wrong, I would say that is a fair argument. By focusing on the trend rather than individual examples at the very least it shows we cannot assume one way or the other. And once you stop assuming things were a certain way many possibilities of interpretation are opened up.
I just do not think you can read "Slavery, we’ve argued, became commonplace on the Northwest Coast largely because an ambitious aristocracy found itself unable to reduce its free subjects to a dependable workforce" and come to the conclusion that the mechanism is communal consensus, and I think that holds true for most all the examples of "choosing" oppression. "Choice" is about intentional political action, not consensus, that slavery did not just sort of happen to happen, it wasn't inevitable.
And of course they aren’t literally saying “people choose to be slaves” but they keep saying things that if taken to their logical conclusion very much imply that.
None of this means that people would have “chosen” to be slaves themselves, but rather some people chosen to take slaves and develop the logistical capacities to do so. Now, one could say that, well, probably some people did try that but they were selected out because there are some other material conditions that we don’t know about that made this transition impossible and that’s why it didn’t happen! But this is an argument completely from faith unless we can actually determine such conditions.