First it is important to understand what the skinhead culture was. The skinhead idea came from working class youth in London during the 1960s who felt that their identity was being alienated within society and wanted to gather up similar minded people of the working class and reach solidarity with one another. From the idea of working class solidarity came the components of the subculture in its fashion; expressing oneself with clothes typically associated with the working class such as doc marten boots and button down collared shirts. The culture hopped onto 60s counterculture that rejected the peace and love ideas found during the decade and was instead in favor of aspects that seemed to naturally associate with the working class and in turn their anger at their alienation. This is what originally drew skinheads to associate with ska music during the 60s as it was seen as a working class genre and was primarily seen as being made by a working class immigrant group.
SHARP was a considerably later movement than the rise of racism in punk music specifically, but its origins can be traced back to RAR movements becoming more ingrained in punk. As the movement shifted from a full fledged carnival to having smaller chapters supporting medium sized bands (ie. not just the clash), the idea that skinheads could still exist but be against racism became important.
While the skinhead culture did get hijacked by the far right, that does not mean that the entire culture transitioned into it. The bands and original skinheads of the 60s and 70s were largely apolitical and some even adopting a staunch anti-fascist statement (ex. The Oppressed). The far right skinheads often mingle among themselves and mostly intermingle with themselves rather than the skinhead culture at large. You'll see this culture even mocked by the apolitical or left leaning skinheads as the far right are labelled "boneheads".
The skinhead culture was targeted by the far right because their culture fit in with what the far right was looking for. From that came the race riot(s) that started from concerts that the culture was associated with and with the success of RAC concerts in 1983 that was able to draw in and convert people to far right ideology the association of skinheads with neo-nazis stuck.
The genre finally coalesced into the neo-nazi association in 1983 when the far right finally got a band for their RAC concerts that the skinhead culture was rather into: Skrewdriver. They were one of the first Oi! bands that formed in the 70s but broke up after one record. Their vocalist, Ian Stuart Donaldson, would later reform the band after he himself adopted far right ideology and made the band one that would explicitly play music that demonstrated that ideology. The stage was set and the concert went on and was quite successful in drawing in a crowd. The far right finally got a foothold and the media began to cover this aspect developing in the culture.