Call your insurance company and make a formal complaint, that the pharmacy charged your insurance co for the meds and never gave you the meds, and to be able to pickup your prescription elsewhere.
Now, getting the wrong medicine at the pharmacy can be a basis for legal action but this is more or less a customer service issue.
Second, it is a customer service matter to get to her the medication she needs if it was lost and not a pharmacy accident. It becomes complicated if its a narcotic, but Ive never heard of narcotics being called anti-depressants, but nobody usually steals anti-depressants, so Im not sure if we have the full story. The pharmacy should work with the patient and insurance to try to get it paid for. If it is a non-narcotic, then it should be more simple than not to get it redispensed. You should see if the insurance has a lost medication override. Usually that would be used in situations where the rx was dispensed but it is now missing after being dispensed. The pharmacy can submit a code to see if the lost medication override will work without having to call the insurance, but be aware sometimes it requires a call by the patient, the pharmacy, or it isnt able to be overridden at all. Should see if the doctor has samples or can prescribe something similar thats cheaper until the insurance should cover it again if she runs out of options. Might consider a coupon company like GoodRx or patient assistance programs like on NeedyMeds that can help cover the out of pocket cost if the insurance wont. If the pharmacy staff arent helpful, even if it wasnt their fault, escalate to pharmacy manager, then corporate.
Could be, but if someone stole it by claiming they were authorized to pick it up, then that party broke the law. Walgreens dispensed it in good faith to whom they believed was authorized to pick it up.
Not really. In the pharmacys defense, even in the edit, they dispensed it to the authorized individual. After it has been dispensed, it may or may not be able to be redispensed. There are more laws regarding medication and pharmacy regulations than simply contract law.
I still think that's on the pharmacy, unless I'm guessing wrong about the provisions of the insurance/pharmacy contract here. They had a contract with the insurance company to deliver the medication to the insured. They did not do so, even though they could have employed identity-verification techniques. Maybe there are sound business reasons not to do that, but the pharmacy assumes the risk if it chooses not to. I think this is pretty obvious if you replace "medications" with something like a car -- I buy a car, someone goes by the dealership and claims to be me, and no one checks the ID before giving the car that was supposed to be mine to the thief.