Thanks for the answer. I had given up hope that anyone would answer this question. I am a little more curious in how ordinary people think about caste and its societal role outside of what the government has done. For example, does everyone know their caste? Is it very easy to tell what caste someone is? I have heard that some last names are indicative but also that others aren't and that there have been efforts to get rid of such names. Do most people still marry within their castes? How does caste inform one's day to day life for people? What is modern day casteism like? I am curious about these sorts of things.
Finally, I would like to understand how non-Hindus fit into this whole thing. I have heard that people of other religions throughout the subcontinent have also been a part of the caste system. Are there any differences in their experiences and how they understand caste in their lives from the way Hindus do?
2) That there was a religious justification and foundation for caste first and its real life implications second.
Strictly speaking the manner in which most scriptures define caste, the caste system or its development and evolution, has little to do with how castes and caste hierarchies actually developed in the real world. For example, texts such as the Purusha Shukta may describe how the "cosmic being was divided into 4 parts and out of each part namely the head, the arms, the torso and the legs, each of the varnas were formed namely the Brahmins, the Kshatriyas, the Vaishyas and the Shudras respectively". However this implies two things, 1) That the caste an individual was born into dictated the occupations he was allowed to choose in life and that throughout history these were the only occupations said individuals chose.
Independent India does not have a caste system as such, meaning that the prospects that an individual has in life are no longer tied to the caste they are born into but rather is determined by their economic status. Ofcourse, many people who live in poverty today, or are landless and have no means of production at their disposal from birth are in such conditions precisely because before independence, the mobility, wealth and prospects a person had in life were tied to their caste. The founding fathers in their attempt to eliminate the social and economic inequality between the forward and backward castes decided to introduce Reservations into the Indian constitution under Articles 15(4), Article 15(5) and Article 15 (6) as well as under sections 4 and 6 of Article 16 and Article 334. In simple terms, reservation in India is about reserving access to seats in government jobs, educational institutions, and legislatures to certain sections of the population.
Originally, the Consitution of India had provided reservations only for a quota in legislatures – that too only for 10 years until 1960 (article 334). Subsequent amendments to the constitution extended the period of reservations for quota in legislatures.
Provisions of reservations in educational institutions and government jobs – article 15(4) and article 16 (4) – were too created by means of Constitutional Amendments later. No time period is given for the validity of the reservations mentioned in article 15(4) and article 16(4).