This is where good history emphasises interdisciplinary knowledge. For example, historians may consult experts in modern counterpart tools when attempting to understand tools of the past. Various memes and clickbait articles have gone about with something like "historians were BAFFLED by (historical object) until (modern-day experts) showed them it was really for THIS" and usually the person who asked the modern-day expert was a historian. Medical experts may also be consulted on medical issues, for example, in the paper "The nature of King James VI/I’s medical conditions: new approaches to the diagnosis", (2012) it includes as its authors not only history of science researcher Timothy Peters but also neurologists Vijeya Ganesan, Peter Garrard and John Stephenson. Similarly, good costume history not only looks at things like written sources and pictures but also reconstruction work and comparison to modern fashion. The people at Historic Royal Palaces work a lot in the intersection between study and re-enactment in a way that can be very informative. So on, so forth. Wouldn't say it's necessarily as common as it should be, but it is definitely not uncommon to do. There are fields like Big History that emphasise this interdisciplinary study (as well as being super broad, Big History is kind of weird; not a traditional history at all).
\-Interdisciplinary study is indeed awesome and I've been seeing it more and more from historians. Was just listening to another podcast about using medical technology to identify parasites in mummies which was very interesting. But the sort of stuff I was mentioning wasn't so much "failed to collaborate with technical experts on the subject" so much as "failed to read the Wikipedia article on the subject.".
And you're right, that's where modern ale comes from! For a very long time in the UK there was a distinction between ales (especially milds, but also Burton ales, IPAs, pale ales/bitters, and old ales) and beers that weren't ale (mostly porters and stouts). I think that this distinction has mostly broken down now due to American usage being exported and the rise of lager (in American brewing usage ale and lager is defined solely by the yeast used which is very much NOT how those words were traditionally used in the UK and Germany, much to the confusion of beer nerds).
\-The specific errors I was talking about was one historian saying that the introduction of hops allowed people to brew stronger beer, which is backwards since both hops and alcohol are preservatives so the more hops you put in the less alcohol is required as a preservative. Hence all of the "small beers" that Shakespeare complains about a lot as opposed to the older stronger unhopped (or very lightly hopped if the brewer was being sneaky) ale he preferred. Certainly there were some strong hopped beers around at this time but there's nothing about putting hops in that helps you make the beer stronger. There's a reason why hops are used for beer and not (stronger) wine aside from the taste, if you don't have much alcohol you need other preservatives unless you want to drink it very fresh (or have excellent sanitation which was very hard until very recently).