Thing 1. It's a way of taxing people and depositing their tax dollars into the coffers of churches who are trying to indoctrinate students into a faith the individual tax payer may disagree with vehemently.
What school choice really means, is picking other parents you think are doing a good job at parenting. Apart from that, the schools don't really differ that much. My daughter and her friend from private school had the exact same text books and the curriculum was basically the same. The class sizes were the same. And the teachers had similar credentials. The only real difference is one place was exclusive and catered to wealthier families, and the other one took anyone who enrolled.
The only objective benefit to private schools is that they’re generally comprised of more affluent families. These families network and that network can provide higher paying job opportunities in the future. I mean, every private school has some dumb asshole that goes on to get a cake job with a huge paycheck completely divorced from said asshole’s skillset. And that dumb asshole got there because of their family and their school network.
In my county the public schools have all of these things — special programs that cater to music, theater, trades, etc. Anecdotally, I went to a public high school and my physics class finished the entire textbook by the end of the third quarter so we did independently study and a presentation on that study for the 4th quarter. Public schooling doesn’t mean that everyone is dragged down to the level of the lowest common denominator. I think you have a very skewed vision of what public education can offer and suffer a wrongheaded belief that private/charter/magnet schools are inherently superior.
I think what people miss is that parents are going to send their kids where they think they will be safe and get a good education and restricting their choices to underperforming public schools or expensive private ones is unfair and counterproductive.
It's also way for middle class suburban parents to choose better or alternative schools that fit their child's needs who aren't rich or don't want to live in squalor to have their children be properly educated.
Not only that they're more than often managing students more than teaching, and on top of that even with higher pay teachers avoid those schools like the plague and the quality of education becomes worse and worse.
It sounds like you’re making a blanket statement that public schools can’t offer a quality education because they’re too busy catering to the poorest performers. So you aren’t saying that private schools are inherently superior, but you are concretely insisting that public schools are worse. Lol. And you’re just generalizing it about the entire nation, never mind that every institution is comprised of individual teachers with their own pedagogies.