Generally business like bars and clubs are not allowed to be opened and operated within a certain distance of pre existing homes. I would suggest bringing it up at a city council meeting, as technically speaking it does infringe on the right to peaceful enjoyment of property (usually the reason for city noise ordinances). Try talking to the owner(s) they might be willing to come to an agreement about noise levels or better sound dampening.
Yes, but going off of what OP has stated it sounds as if he is within a block of the establishment, that was formerly a restaurant/diner or similar small establishment that can be very close to a residential area. From the information given the new owner and/or management is operating it as a club/bar in the evening, there is two was to do this 1.) Get it rezoned and licensed this would be costly but it sounds like its plausible. 2.) Claim that it is a private event with a temporary liquor license ( this is how a establishment in my city has operated for years).
You seem confused.There are 2 types of liquor licenses one is food primary (so a restaurant that can serve alcohol), and liquor primary (bars and clubs). The licensing is what dictates how long they are allowed to sell alchohol for usually something like 11pm to 3am, the permit is just to operate a business that serves food and alchohol at that specific location and allows for the purchase of insurance. Its city ordinances that tend to dictate sound/quite time and how close to a permanent residence that something like a club can be.
And I'm telling you that if it was too close to pre-existing homes, then they would not have been allowed to open the club by the city. The city is not going to issue a permit to open a business in a zoned residential area. They won't let you build a house in an industrial area.
But the comment I responded to said "they can't be built close to existing houses, so check on that.".
If it was too close to the houses to fit code, then it wouldn't have gotten the licenses in the first place- that was my point.