Paul first states that women exchange natural sexual relationships for unnatural relationships. Paul then moves on to men who he also claims abandoned natural sexual relationships for unnatural ones. However, in doing so, he draws a parallel or a correlation. That which the men have done is the same as what the women have done, that's why he bridges the two statements with "In the same way." So, he's drawing a direct correlation between what the women did and what the men did. This is a normal rhetorical device. There is no need to repeat the same list of activities twice. Nonetheless, it is safe to understand that all the things he is saying the men were doing he was also saying the women were doing.
There are several issues it helps to understand: what Paul was writing, how Paul wrote and how the Greek language Paul was using worked.
First, we have to look at what Paul was writing. Romans is considered an epistle, which really just means it was a letter written by Paul to some other person/group of people. In this case, it was written to the Christian community in Rome, or to the "Romans." All of Paul's writings contained in the New testament are epistles/letters. But they aren't all the same type of letters. Some of them are clearly very personal letters written to specific individuals who Paul clearly knew well and deal specifically with those people's specific situations. A great example of one of Paul's very personal letters is the letter to Philemon. There, we can read Paul as speaking directly to a very specific situation and what Paul writes should be understood in the frame work of that situation. However, arguably, Romans is on the other end of the spectrum. It isn't certain Paul knew anyone in Rome or had ever been to Rome. Moreover, Romans is, again arguably, more a theological work espousing Paul's understanding of God and Jesus than an intimate communication between people addressing shared problems. This leads to issues when reading Romans and Ephesians and Paul's other "theological" epistles of trying to decide when Paul is addressing recipient specific facts or just espousing general theology? So here, is Paul citing to "sexual immorality" that the Roman's specifically would have been ware of and may in fact have been happening in Rome, or is this more Paul arguing that a denial of God leads to an unnatural existence and behaviors? It's not 100% clear. It seems Paul has specific instances in mind, but jump down just two and three verses to 29 and 30 and Paul has moved on to a general list of anti-social behaviors which he also attributes as the natural consequence of denying God (which cause the unnatural sexual relationships in verses 26 &27). This general listing seems to indicate that the whole may just be a theological argument that the denial of God leads indulgence which leads to unnatural activities which leads to personal and societal degradation. And, in my opinion, this is the proper way to read chapter 1--as rhetoric. Roman's is Paul's seminal statement on God and Jesus. It makes sense to open that work with an overview of why God, and the correct belief in God, is important; both on a micro and a macro level, which Romans 1 seems to do. As such, there isn't necessarily any reason to think Paul had specific instances or examples in mind.
We must remember not to apply our anachronistic lens to the century of which Paul's writings existed in. I honestly feel the matter is made more complicated by doing so. In the original doctrines of the Church, natural entailed sexual relationships between male and female. Also sodomy was also prohibited (as in other Abrahamic faiths). That being sodomy primarily consisting of anal sex. I can see your point regarding prostitution and so on as those are good points, however again we must realize that these are also prohibited in the Abrahamic faiths and could fall under "unnatural". Being that it opposes a "natural" marriage between man and (virgin) woman. That probably does not help at all lol but hey, I hope that can shed more light. Maybe someone else who knows more can elaborate more precisely but I doubt these things need to be made more complicated, it seems like it may be simpler than what our 21st century minds would devise.