And from my understanding there is nothing more owed for the car loan, as the car had been re-sold after it got repossessed. But I could totally be wrong (above comment). Do you think I should just call the loaner and ask?
The car got re-sold by the company after it was repossessed, and so apparently I don't owe anything for the car anymore, or that is at least how I understood it. \\If there is anyone knowledgable of this please let me know!\\ The attorney I spoke to mentioned there is a possibility of a cost deficiency, meaning I may owe the bank if there is a difference between how much the car was re-sold for - how much I paid towards the car. But I have not been contacted by the bank since I learned about the repossessing.. and the attorney advised I shouldn't TRY to get a hold of them if they haven't initiated since then.
Thank you for your response. I do have text messages that resemble him stating his responsibility of making the payments.
If you have any texts messages or written agreement of him stating he'll make the payments or anything resembling that, you might be able to take him to small claims court. Most small claims courts don't allow lawyers & some of them do have a limit on the amount so verify with your county. You can also file a dispute with the credit bureau but since you did sign for the car, & took full responsibility for the loan in the banks eyes, you may not have any luck. Ultimately, seems like you're responsible for the loan but if you have a written agreement or any messages indicating he agreed to it, like the lawyer said, "there is something definitely there". Odds aren't looking too great. To anyone reading this, never lend your credit to anyone.
If your county allows lawyers for small claims & the claim amount doesn't over pass the court's amout limit then that would be a good place to start. If a lawyer is allowed then you might save the trouble of doing everything yourself but then you'd owe the lawyer as well. I'd suggest getting different opinions from different attorneys. If the car is sold, chances are your credit is stuck like that. You can dispute it but I don't think you're chances are good. But you might be able to have the court make him pay all those fines & fees he got.