Great points here--I just wanted to add that there is an additional sense of "dark ages" referring to a lack of written records, not necessarily to an era of grimness and brutality. This is likewise the sense of the "Greek Dark Ages," between the Mycenaean and Archaic periods--though I suspect that term has likewise fallen out of fashion.
Additionally, looking to the analogous "Greek Dark Ages," a little digging through academic journals has turned up a reference from 1900 to the "dark age" following the Mycenaean period, and by 1936 we get "the Greek Dark Ages," fully capitalized and without an explanatory gloss. My sense is that both of these refer to a lack of written sources, not to a perception that this was a particularly brutal time compared to what came before or after it. I suppose it's possible that the early medieval usage is in fact derived from this early antique usage, as a later rationalization. But I think it does suggest that "dark age" had a sense of "obscure, difficult to study using (then-)traditional historical methods"--and perhaps a usage even somewhat free of morally negative connotation?--by sometime around the turn of the 20th century.
However, perhaps we're interested in the specific phrase "the dark ages", rather than a use of a darkness metaphor to characterise the post-classical period. This is not totally unfair, since darkness metaphors are a dime a dozen and we find antecedents on this front all the way back to the Carolingians, but the use of this sort of phrase is highly language specific. English is, at least according to Jinty Nelson, the only European vernacular in which "the Dark Ages" serves as a distinct, parallel expression to "the Middle Ages". (For example, in German you would speak about "das finstere Mittelalter" (that is the dark Middle Ages), if you want to specify this idea of "the Dark Ages".) So while this may be the first expression of 'dark ages' (well strictly it is 'dark age' in the singular) in some language, given that it is speaking about something totally different, something that we don't actually call "the Dark Age" in English, but rather tend to use the Latin when referring to this period of papal history.
All of which is just to say that, while the "Dark Ages" are not a particularly helpful term, it is good to be mindful of the kinds of evidence we do and don't have from early medieval Europe--and to be skeptical of anyone who claims to have "solved the mystery" of X figure or event from this period.
There is also an article in The Times (“Art in the Dark Ages”, 20 May, 1930) that underscores the lack of knoweldge meaning, linking this into a broader evocation of the Migration period that overlays perceptions of the early Middle Ages here:
Returning to the early medieval European "Dark Ages," I think it's important to note that there are indeed places and periods where a lack of contemporary written sources leave many matters of narrative political history unknown or in grave doubt. These include much of Great Britain between the end of Roman rule (c the early 5th century CE) and the late 7th century (and considerably later in much of Scotland), much of Scandinavia until well into the 10th century, and large portions of Eastern Europe for a similar timespan. That isn't to say there's nothing historians can assert about these places in these periods--disciplines like archaeology and (a bit more controversially) genetics have greatly contributed to our understandings of what went on in these centuries on a number of levels. But as retrospective written sources about these periods were subject to increasing skepticism throughout the 20th and 21st centuries, a lot of seemingly basic questions--for instance, where exactly was the kingdom of Rheged? Was there a battle of Catraeth/Catterick, or several, or is it essentially a literary device? Who exactly was Bede's Cadwallon? Did Harald Fairhair exist? Are Ímar and Ivar the Boneless two names for the same individual, two different individuals, or two mashups of a variety of real and fictional individuals? Did the Khazars convert to Judaism, and if so when?--remain fundamentally obscure. There's good discussion of several of these specific questions here on AskHistorians (and elsewhere), and there are more and less sound theories. But there are contextual unknowns that make historical approaches to certain areas and eras of the early Middle Ages quite different than, say, historical approaches to Charlemagne and the Crusades. The picture further complicates when we consider points at which more securely historical figures interact with far less secure ones--for instance, when the (pretty secure) Charles the Bald treats with the Northman Reginherus, who may or may not have anything to do with the later legend of Ragnar Lodbrok; or when Gregory of Tours has Theodericus's kingdom attacked by Chlochilaicus (Hygelac??) in the early 6th century.