This is an issue I have been grappling with in my own medieval history syllabi for a while now and I applaud you for tackling it head-on in your own syllabus. I am not going to claim to know all of the resources related to intersection of white nationalism and medieval history, but I hope at the very least that I can help start the conversation.
Another great resource is the “In The Medieval Middle" blog, especially some recent contributions about white supremacism and medieval studies:
In addition to the great responses that have been provided already, I would like to add one important topic.White supremacists who invoke the European history stating that the medieval continent was more 'racially pure' or, to put it more precisely, completely 'white' or almost so are not without at least some merit. What they say can be considered right, but is not related to the historical Europe, but rather to its very fragmentary portrayal in popular culture including also popular history. Please note, that when the topic of 'medieval Europe' is being risen, it usually revolves more or less around the stereotypical chivalry, Hundred Years War, Crusades or Anglo-Saxons and Vikings when earlier Middle Ages are mentioned. This means that the entire scope spanning ten centuries and the entire continent, from Iceland to Egypt and from Atlantic to Ural Mountains is being narrowed to roughly four centuries in England, northern France and the immediate surrounding territory. The reasons are varied, but the American or maybe Anglophone dominance over modern popular culture causes this particular region to be the main if not the sole focus of the popular take on (quasi)historical depiction of the medieval Europe.
Thus, when speaking about the ethnic and cultural diversity of the medieval Europe it is good to actually speak about Europe, not just a small part of it (and, conversely, making it clear that the 'medieval Europe' as such was not uniformly diverse with some areas were monolithic while other were vibrantly multi-ethnic). Please note that while portrayal of early-to-high medieval England, northern France and Scandinavia as chiefly if not completely 'white' (read: populated by people resembling modern descendants of Germanians, Slavs, Gauls and Scandinavians) is not that far from truth, what makes this region so popular among white supremacists (with a penchant for the Nordic mythos, as already mentioned). But in other parts of the continent situation was vastly, if not completely different, courtesy of mass migrations and conquests in the early Middle Ages. This does not get much of the coverage because of relative absence of the majority of Europe from popular history in the Anglosphere. Good luck finding any popular renditions related to the history of anything related to Slavic lands, Eastern Roman Empire (that will not focus on Western crusaders) or Moorish Spain. Even Italian city-states, Holy Roman Empire and Hanseatic League get rather cursory treatment. And, in my opinion, this is one of the major reasons for most misconceptions related to the ethnic composition of medieval Europe that can be addressed in any curriculum for that subject.
And above all, whether the idea of black skin, hot climates/the south/Africa, and badness get tied together in the European imagination, is in the discourse in literary and proto-scientific texts on Islam and Muslims.
So by the time Europe's sailors are pushing beyond the Mediterranean and North Sea, the ties between geography, skin color, and morality are well entrenched thanks to centuries of writing incubated in and by cultural ties and religious antagonism with Muslims.