I didn't see anyone address this (but perhaps I missed it). Please don't stress about her threat to "contact your dean, your academic advisor, etc." Unless you're at a VERY religious institution, they are not going to care about a penis drawing or a dispute with your landlord. At 99% of colleges, none of that violates student conduct policies. Even if your landlord follows through on the threat, they're not going to get you in trouble.
This behavior by your landlord is very concerning in more than just a legal sense. This threatening to report you to your dean for your “penis picture”, calling your parents, and straight up forgetting you have a written lease agreement gives me the chills just thinking about it. Barging into rooms, complaining about your cooking, flip flopping on kicking you out... it just seems awful to deal with.
I would suggest getting out of there as soon as possible just to rid yourself of this landlord from hell. Seriously, go talk to an attorney and get some advice on how to proceed.
This is "get a lawyer" time. There will be police involved with this and they are going to best represent your interests. Some of this retaliation is literally a criminal matter. If they go to your university, do not admit to anything. You speak to no one about this without a lawyer present. If the police suddenly show up, you don't speak to them without a lawyer present.
Don't communicate with your landlord any more. Don't ask if the cameras are recording audio. Don't ask when they were installed. Don't ask if there are any more. Don't threaten to report them. Don't threaten to move out. You're almost certainly going to have to find a new place to live, and you're now way past the point of working this out amicably with your landlord. If your landlord actually proceeds with eviction, that works very heavily in your favor.
Take all the documentation you have and go find a lawyer specializing in landlord / tenant laws. They will likely provide you with a free or discounted initial consultation. You likely have a claim against your landlord, but you want a lawyer to look at all the little details and give you a better idea. There may be a criminal element as well, for which you would go to the police -- but given the specifics here, I'd talk to the lawyer first.
Your landlord almost certainly violated CA law on multiple fronts. CA is a two-party consent state, for one, meaning your landlord can't record audio of you without your consent. Also, CA law prohibits video recording in areas where you have a reasonable expectation of privacy. This can get fuzzy; you probably don't have a reasonable expectation of privacy in the kitchen, but are there any cameras in your bedroom? Changing room? Bathrooms? Go check immediately. And finally, your landlord is threatening to evict you in response to you asserting your rights.