Rental history can be nice, yes. You also have more protections as a tenant than you do as an occupant. Some of the benefits could be very minor, like being able to have your name on a mailbox. Some of the benefits could be very major, like protections against eviction or being able to benefit from a rental insurance policy.
It's possible the landlord would let your roommate hold the apartment alone and then sign a new lease with you added after your birthday.
The rental history question is a little more complex because it partially depends on who you're trying to rent from, when, and why. Some landlords really don't care, but plenty do. In truth, landlords just want to see that you haven't been evicted and you aren't defaulting on utilities left and right.
Minors can be occupants but they cannot sign leases or appear on leases. Your parents/guardian could sign a lease and you could live in this place just fine.
Can you have a parent co-sign the lease for you? Most landloards won't let people in college sign leases alone (due to unstable or inconsistent or low income) so they have parents cosign the lease.
Contracts with minors are (in general) voidable, so your landlord probably won’t allow you to sign the lease. You will have to be put on the lease as a resident rather than an obligor. However, the agreement can be amended when you turn 18.
Being added to the contract would give you the same protections (but also duties) as the other tenants. As long as everything goes smoothly during your tenancy, it probably wouldn’t make much difference either way. As for rental history, that’s typically a manual process, so your landlord would just confirm that you were a tenant who paid your rent on time and caused no problems or damages. I don’t think there are any hard & fast rules about verifying tenancy as a resident vs an obligor, so it probably won’t matter too much when you try to get your next apartment. I will say that most LLs/property managers require a certain amount of rental history, so all of you might need a co-signer for the first year or two, regardless of your age.