Soviet Cavalry-Mechanised groups were extraordinarily effective in Operation Bagration - they had trucks for the artillery, and the cavalry rode to the fight and then dismounted ... but this meant they could move machineguns, machinegun ammo, anti tank rifles, mortars and mortar ammunition many kilometers far easily than infantry units could.
In some cases, cavalry mobility in broken terrain is superior to armor, and the Soviets found that combined arms units with mounted infantry, armor and artillery were extremely effective. Even today, mounted units can be advantageous in difficult terrain, such as during the 2001 invasion of Afghanistan. Maintaining cavalry, however, is very expensive and logistically difficult. Horses are delicate animals, even under ideal conditions, require a lot of feed and maintenance and suffer frequent injury. In most cases, this outweighs the limited tactical advantages they provide.
Part of the reason why Soviet cavalry actually expanded as the (Great Patriotic) war went on, even after they successfully reconstituted and reorganized their armored forces, was that it was actually well suited to Soviet doctrine. Cavalry can move fast over broken terrain and has always been known for operating in enemy rear areas. This fit well with Soviet Deep Operations doctrine, which stressed attacking all levels of defense and destroying enemy reserves. This was a much more central role than most countries’ concept of cavalry tactics. From the.
One of the last significant mounted charges against infantry, or at least well documented ones, was the battalion level engagement at Krojanty on September 9 1939. The 18th Uhlans while destroying infrastructure to slow the invaders advance, caught a German infantry battalion at rest and quickly organized a charge, covered by machine gun fire. They dispersed the Germans and took the ground, but a passing German armored car unit responded to the gunfire, and counter-attacked. The Poles withdrew, taking casualties. Kamil Dziewanowski, a junior officer in the Uhlans and later a history professor at Boston University, wrote of the charge.