The first is diffusion. Oral tradition by its nature diffuses, and so motifs are frequently shared internationally. This accounts for some of the perceived similarities, but where there is no obvious historical connection, other reasons need to be considered.
First, though, some key caveats on the nature of “seeming similar.” While fascinating links can indeed be made between countless stories from countless cultures, it is important to consider that some stories may appear especially similar because of how we encounter them. Most speakers of modern languages encounter traditional stories in retellings which are themselves based on translated sources. Translation goes a long way towards “taming” difference. This is particularly true of the types of supernatural beings and concepts that tend to abound in mythic narratives. Once you start calling a monster a “dragon”—regardless of whether the original source called it drakōn, tannīn, wyrm, azhdahā, lóng, etc.—you’ve already taken a step towards connecting distinct motifs that may have important, culturally-specific valences which become lost in translation.
All of which is just to say, that good comparative mythology is difficult work. It requires careful readings of difficult texts in their original, often-difficult languages, and a thorough knowledge of the contexts--manuscript/codicological, historical, sociocultural, etc.--under which these sources were produced. But even that is still only just the beginning, because the challenge remains of how to account for the types of similarity that your question mentions. In what follows, I’m going to outline an array of the most common methods for analyzing these links. This isn’t exhaustive--there are almost as many comparative methodologies as there are comparatists--but I hope it provides a sense of some widespread approaches.
Another important way to think about comparison is through motif-based or approaches. These are often less concerned with origins--so are perhaps more tangential to the question--but can provide a framework for other approaches as well. Among the pioneers of this approach were Russian formalists like Vladimir Propp (Morphology of the Folktale, 1928) and other folklorists like Antti Aarne and Stith Thompson. By exhaustively cataloging motifs across traditional narratives, these scholars provided tools for assessing the relationships among tales. A particularly thick geographical cluster of a particular motif may indicate something about its origin; by contrast, a widely dispersed motif is often harder to trace to any particular culture. Often, though, these methods are more diagnostic than they are explanatory.