So what exactly is stopping Russia using nukes on Ukraine right now? Almost 12 months into the "3 day operation" Russia is losing the war, what is Putin waiting for?
I would have thought either outcome was equally catastrophic to Putin, but only one of them will make him use nukes first. Why?
Why? Deportation _is_ genocide, the word is not used when other mass relocations are happenings (say for disaster relief).
But genocide is, by definition under current conventions, inclusive of deportation, among other ways to do genocide.
yes, deportation in this conditions falls under one of the definitions of genocide - vienna conventions have multiple points of what constitutes genocide.
Do people insisting on using genocide over deportation somehow believe that suffering so many years is not worthy of mentioning, or that deportation is somehow less of a terrible fate than genocide, so they need to use harsher words?
All this insistence over using genocide instead of deportation seems really insensitive, as the _years_ of suffering that will follow are not worthy of acknowledging with their own word and have to be erased by the first assumption that the victims will simply be executed soon.
All this insistence over using genocide instead of deportation seems really insensitive, as the _years_ of suffering that will follow are not worthy of acknowledging with their own word and have to be erased by the first assumption that the victims will simply be executed soon.
All this insistence over using genocide instead of deportation seems really insensitive, as the _years_ of suffering that will follow are not worthy of acknowledging with their own word and have to be erased by the first assumption that the victims will simply be executed soon.
All this insistence over using genocide instead of deportation seems really insensitive, as the _years_ of suffering that will follow are not worthy of acknowledging with their own word and have to be erased by the first assumption that the victims will simply be executed soon, as in the Kurdish or Armenian genocide.
Deportation _is_ genocide, it's just a more methodical and slower form of death than the way people died -instantly, with a bullet- in the Armenian or Kurdish genocides.
When you insist on using genocide over deportation, you wipe out the suffering between being kidnapped and either dead or escaped back to your family.
It's literally forced deportation, whether or not it meets the criteria for genocide (which it might not, since intent does figure into the equation), and that is a war crime unto itself.
You call it deportation, calling it genocide seems unfitting for the timescale of the suffering genocide implies.
Deportation _is_ a specific form of genocide. Calling it genocide doesn't add anything but drama to it, nicely skimping over the fact that deportees suffer for _years_.
I guess deportation just doesn't have the same ring to it as genocide, you're not executed, you're "just moved away".
Knowing the context the word deportation doesn't make what's happening sound any less terrible then it is. At least for me. When I hear deportation I think Sovjet deportations and they were terrible.
Considering what Russia is doing is the same thing as they did in Sovjet (and before that in lesser extend Tsarist) times I think deportation is the best word to use.