First of all, I have to assume you're actually talking about the Qing dynasty (1644-1911) and not the Qin (221-208 BCE). There were no records of tea drinking from the Qin and while tea was probably already drunk in some way, we have no evidence from that period at all. Cao was also writing about the Qing (even though the story was set in the Ming).
Even for the Qing, it depends on if we're talking about early or late Qing. In the early Qing, the only thing really available for drinking was green tea - there is no written evidence that anything else really existed at the time. Records from the Ming and early Qing all suggest that the teas they consumed were greens of various kinds, not unlike the longjing and biluochun you now find in the market. Biluochun, according to the early 18th century jottings Liunan xubi, talks about how when the Kangxi emperor visited Lake Tai, he was gifted this tea and deemed the original name uncouth (it was called Scary Fragrant) so named it Biluochun instead, a name which lasted till today.
We know relatively little about what the poor drank. In areas where tea was produced, one would imagine that they drank similar stuff, just lower grade. In the north, they favored teas like jasmine - basically stale green tea that keeps better because of the added fragrance. Only the rich and powerful could afford fresh teas. One also imagines all kinds of roasted grains and what not were drunk as well. In the south, more varied types of teas are drunk - oolongs, largely, which also keep very well once roasted. Black tea was mostly for export and was never really favored by Chinese drinkers until its association with Western culture brought it back in a very different form.
Do you mind expanding on your last idea about black teas being brought back to China by Western powers in a very different form? We all knew Britain fought two wars with China in part because of tea, but how did colonialism/imperialism (the British, of course, but the Russians and Japanese have strong tea cultures as well) influence tea drinking in the early days of the treaty ports to the founding of Republican China?