One thing to keep in mind: Latin American countries aren't really among the poorest in the world. Places like Nicaragua and Honduras are quite poor, but not compared with sub-Saharan Africa or Central Asia, which are by far the poorest in the world. Brazil, Colombia and Peru are only slightly poorer than the world average, and Argentina and Mexico slightly richer. Uruguay and Chile are well above average. This is a pretty weak performance for a region that had higher incomes than all of East Asia in the first half of the 20th century, but that's a metric about growth performance, not poverty per se.
But then, Japan and South Korea are now both fully developed countries with Western European levels of income, so the question is still a pertinent one.
I would argue, first of all, that it is misguided to think that the US' involvement in South Korea and Japan after WW2 is the, or at least one of the, main reason(s) why these countries currently enjoy high GDPs per capita. The issue is that for any development hypothesis, you can pick countries that fit, but you can also find countries that don't. E.g. the Philippines were literally owned by the US for a considerable time in the first half of the 20th century, but they are solidly in the group of middle-income countries at present. On the other hand, the ROC (Taiwan) prospered as one of the Asian Tigers without much evidence of US involvement. How can these countries be reconciled with a "direct US involvement =.
Giving a definite answer on why certain countries end up being wealthy while others don't is extremely difficult. As far as I understand, there is a whole area of economics called development economics that attempts to answer this question, but until now it's hard to say whether there is a definite series of steps that can be taken by a country to become wealthy. Things that have worked in the past may not work today, things that currently work for a particular country may not work for its neighbours.
Just to say again, these are extremely hard and broad questions, and there are not definite answers, at least as of now.