It’s also a big question, for which I'll highlight a few important points focusing more on Spanish America which I'm more familiar with including a summary below (updating this from various earlier answers) – hopefully others can add more on British America.
Importantly, looking at demographics, a larger part of the pre-hispanic native population was concentrated in Central and South America in comparison to North America. This was influenced but not "reversed" by the demographic catastrophes that struck native people in Mexico and other places post-conquest. The two largest and most populous empires in the Americas at the time of European contact, the Aztecs and Incas, where in central and south America respectively. The Spanish would build on their structures and they would form their colonial centres, where Spanish control was most secure by the late 16th c. Of course there were also important states and highly developed cultures in North America – this is just to give a rough comparative idea of demographic density in both regions.
And c) major differences in social organization: with the Spanish casta system leading to seperate social groups, but also more flexible (before the 18th c.) than British American systems. In Spanish America intermarriage was even encouraged at least early on with local elites to gain power; and large mixed groups between native, African and European descendants developed over time. Not to paint a too rosy picture though: the casta system continued to influence major discrimation against indigenous and Afro people until today.
They were usually brought over as slaves, and in contrast to native people there were already centuries of negative stereotypes the Spaniards could build on and continue. In the Americas there was also sexual anxiety of Europeans towards Africans, as seen for example in harsh measures against supposed "slave revolts" - because in many places Africans and "mulattoes" largely outnumbered Spaniards.
There were Europeans who married Indigenous women, but they were incredibly rare - relationships were more likely to be a result of abusing frontier conditions (like starvation or authority) to trade for sexual favours, or outright ownership as (illegal) domestic slaves. This led to much of Aboriginal Australia having mixed ancestry, which was measured by white society to determine what rights the individual deserved - for instance, in some states someone with 'a quarter' of Aboriginal ancestry might be classified as fully white, fully Aboriginal, or somewhere in between, and thus might have their right to marry, travel, work, vote, etc. revoked. The abuse of Aboriginal women was so common that segregation via reserves and missions was partly aimed at preventing sexual relations, and state governments decided to assimilate mixed race children - stealing, re-educating and pushing generations of Aboriginal children into white families and work institutions, an attempt at genocide.
In Australia, the First Fleet included women because it was seen by the authorities as unnecessarily cruel to deny men the company of women, which would lead to an explosion of sin (homosexuality or attacks on native women), rebellion or collapse. The idea of the colony was to rehabilitate and create a stable society, so you've got to have women to have dads and babies, and the worst prisoners were sent to harsher prisons like Port Arthur or Norfolk Island, where having no women was part of the punishment. Women convicts were treated quite poorly (with opinions of them extremely derogatory), and they quickly found partners during the journey over or once they landed, and could significantly improve their circumstances by marrying upward. The gentlemen (officers or well-to-do men) generally left their wives in Britain, as their postings were only for a few years, but could bring them if they wished.