Thank you for your well written response. Two interesting scenarios are bought up when thinking about the history of colonial colleges. The first, which you mentioned, is how most, but not all colonial colleges continue to be held in highest esteem, with the notable exceptions being those not in the Ivy League.
To be clear, however, these Colonial Colleges were not the only institutes of higher education. Colleges for young women were established but they served a different purpose. A young white man went to a Colonial College because he was destined (or his father thought he was) to be a great man. A young white woman went to a woman's college because her future son was destined for greatness. Free Black men and women, simply did not attend the Colonial Colleges. They instead, attended schools like Oberlin, which quickly established itself a rigorous college for non-white male (and female) students as it followed a classical curriculum not unlike that seen at Harvard. While Oberlin did enroll white male students, they were more likely to lack political connections and specific education required to get into the colonial colleges. A man with more humble aspirations, or more limited means, might go to one of the land grant colleges that were founded in various waves during the 1800s. To be sure, not all of the Colonial Colleges are held in the same high esteem in the modern era which has a lot to do with endowments and how various states support colleges within its borders.
While the creation of the SAT exam was an attempt to even out admission policies among the "best" colleges, they all continued to give extra weight to legacy students. In effect, this was codifying the feedback loop I mentioned before. So, some schools are locked into performance on lists due to a combination of factors related to perception, exclusivity, and tradition. When "ranking" schools, publishers would look at how hard it was to get into, what graduates did after graduating, and other variables. In effect, it's not so much that newer colleges are kept from getting on to the list, it's more that the weight of tradition, exclusively, and access to power among those who've always been on the list has been too hard to overcome.
While there's a number of factors that contribute to a school becoming prestigious, it's fair to say that who gets counts as a member of the Old Guard has changed and shifted over time. In effect, ND and Georgetown became well-known because alumni became well-known and moved into positions of power. While WASPs weren't necessarily fans of Catholic schools for their children, graduates of well-respected Catholic schools rubbed elbows with said WASPs in various ways. So, over time, the lines between religious and secular schools blurred to a certain extend with regards to exclusivity and eh, voila, Catholic schools become as prestigious as non-Catholic ones.
Going off of that last question, if newer universities' success was so based on it receiving the "blessing" of the old guard of schools, then how did schools like Georgetown and to a lesser extent Notre Dame become so prestigious as Catholic Jesuit institutions? I may be wrong but I can't imagine the Anglo-Protestant Old Guard endorsing Catholic institutions of learning. And yet, these two schools are now considered some of the top schools in the country.