My understanding is that of the Mediterranean island cultures, that of Sardinia had the oldest archeological origins. Do the timeframes of the peoples who constructed the Sardinian ‘nuraghe’ line up with the temple builders of Malta?
The "temple-builders" were a Neolithic group that arrived in Malta around the 5th-4th millennium BCE. They were a successful Neolithic society, possibly related to the Sicani of Sicily. A successful Neolithic society is typically marked by advancements in pottery development/use, cultivation of crops like cereals, artistic development (especially figurines), and building projects, often megalithic, usually as the result of social stratification in some form or another. Malta is just one example of this type of "successful" Neolithic culture, though the structures created at Malta are quite distinct. Europe and the Near East is dotted by various Neolithic societies at this time, all more or less "succeeding" in these basic ways. We find others in the archaeological record which did not "succeed." Why or why not is a complicated question.
The megalithic structures are definitely more developed than at other, similar cultures, though now we know of similar such in Turkey. See also the famous henges, like Stonehenge or the henges of central Gaul. It is always difficult to know what exactly archaeology preserves, as well. Just because we don't have many preserved examples of megalithic Neolithic "temple"-building does not mean they were not widespread.
And one of those challenged assumptions might very well be the age of other megalithic sites including those on Malta.
The most famous scholar of this topic is Luigi Ugolini, who was determined to prove the Neolithic dating of the megalithic structures (vs later, Bronze Age date). He died untimely in the early 20th century, but a dossier of his work and planned publications is currently under restoration and publication. He possessed many drawings of the megalithic structures which preserve elements no longer extant or visible, including many of the delicate artistic renderings which have, since excavation in the 19th century, weathered away to nothing. A good modern source for this is Claudia Segona, The Archaeology of Malta (Cambridge 2015). In the same year, Oxford put out a collection of studies called The late prehistory of Malta : essays on Borġ in-Nadur and other sites.