So it was mentioned, butas I wanted to sticky this front and center and not sure where /u/WARitter is, to reiterate, this feature already exists to a degree. While it isn't a "all in one place" collection, the is not just for highlighting good answers you read this week, but also for highlighting questions you thought were overlooked and never got the answer they deserved. It is user driven though. If you want to try and get more attention to something, submit it there I've seen it work before.
If you want to keep it on reddit, I'd also note that /u/subredditsummarybot posts every Friday, and you can subscribe to a personalized one.
Quite frankly, /r/askhistorians is a subreddit not designed for casual users to comment within (which is what I like about it). Having a second subreddit might be a good way to create a "view only" mode for answered questions, and let the casuals post more informal discussion or meta commentary in a place where it doesn't distract the serious posts.
The one way I can think of doing this would be to create a new subreddit, called "Answeredhistorians" or something, where answered questions would get posted (by mods or so). The actual subreddit may or may not allow commenting (it could be a place for more casual discussion), but it would mean that I'd see the questions on my feed once they're answered, which is more interesting.
I have just started wondering if posting good answers separately (to a new post) and allowing submissions for answers to unasked questions might help stimulate the entire system of question answering and asking?
So not an "Answered" flair, because I agree that's bad and shouldn't ever be considered, but a set of flairs which are essentially supplementary to "Great Question" and specifically acknowledge questions of rarer or highly-specific types, which could be used as supplements to "Great Question" submissions. That way, if flairs were used in this hypothetical system, at the end of the week you'd be able to get at least two sets of specifically specialist questions highlighted, which would probably be useful for tweeting out as well. And then "Great Question!" flairs, (perhaps in addition to those threads which are unanswered above a certain upvote ratio) can represent the remainder of the highlighted unanswered questions, which are those which could represent the userbase's interests in questions rather than the moderators' attempts to broaden the subreddit's range (which I should clarify I'm entirely in support of, but again I tend to see the users' angle in this, and think any system like this should have an olive branch to them in it as well).
I understand many of the moderation's points here, especially as regards issues with flairing threads "answered" or deleting and reposting extant threads, but I think this may be an instance where moderation is trying a bit too hard to find problems with the suggestion without looking at the basic premise of the suggestion and looking for alternative, functional ways to apply it--and believe me when I say that I'm not criticizing, I just think some outside perspective may be helpful here.
Now, I don't know how the moderation here has thought to handle that issue internally, and I know from the same response I read that there are notification systems for in-field questions to try keeping flaired users engaged, but as I'm not on the backend I don't know how variable that system is, and by its nature it appears to me to be a reactive system, IE it attempts to keep extant flairs present, rather than providing curated content for engagement which may further draw specialists, or provide a baseline of engagement sufficient to allow specialists who may heretofore lack sufficient evidence of their qualifications to apply for flairing, thus increasing the existing pool of flaired users. As I see it, the OP's suggestion could be a functional supplement to combat the issue of gradually-disengaging flaired users, while also resolving many user's long-standing problems with the perception (justified or otherwise) that questions here are rarely answered, while also serving as a proactive system to bring more flaired users into the fold.
One of the things I remember reading most recently here was a concern from moderation about the persistence of flaired users and their interest in the community--a basic question about the long-term viability of the subreddit, if you want to add just a bit of exaggerated flair to it. As I understood the concern, while there are many fascinating questions asked here daily, the overall breadth of period, locale and basic subject is limited relative to the actual breadth of potential questions, which can often lead to specialists who were initially very interested in participating in the subreddit growing disinterested, as questions about their specific field are rare, if not nonexistent. I know I've been really wanting to use my research to answer a question here, and I haven't found an opportunity to do so in the two years I've felt qualified to (though I must also admit I've not been looking at /new as much as I should).