In fact, even if we imagine some ridiculous scenario where sailing had been lost to history, wouldn't it have been easy to rediscover all the best ways to do it? Of course, every culture is going to design their ships a little differently, have different geographical constraints, have access to different resources, need ships for different reasons, and have different values regarding the sea or maritime traditions, but that shouldn't matter for figuring stuff like this out. At the end of the day boats and voyages are just a matter of physics and logistics. The wind of the Pacific doesn't blow any differently for anyone, and supplies don't last shorter or longer because of what you believe.
That's such a counterintuitive strategy, but I like it. I would have always thought that the key to a successful voyage was maximizing the distance:supplies ratio by running with the wind as long as possible, but tacking into it so you can head back quickly is pretty genius.
As mentioned in some of my responses on strategies for voyaging, most voyages that resulted in the discovery of new islands took place by going out and tacking against the wind, or heading out in an oblique angle to it. This provided the advantage of being able to turn around and get back home or at least to familiar waters if some issue came up or supplies ran low. This strategy definitely contributed to the high success rate that archeologists like Patrick Kirch or Geoffrey Irwin attribute to Polynesian voyages into new waters. The voyages were not long shots, but were carefully planned and undertaken-- losing a canoe, a master navigator, or apprentices was a disaster whenever it actually occurred so there was a lot of impetus to minimize this occurrence.
Some of those replies are by me, I would say it is a consensus and has been for a while at least in Pacific History or Archeology. Polynesian voyaging is certainly not as well known in other fields or in broader world history (though this is true of all pacific history not just voyaging), so much so that plenty of textbooks still leave Oceania entirely out of their content.
To really understand just how amazing all of this was there are some documentaries available on you Tube of Mau Piailug who was one of the last traditional navigators in the Pacific and he taught Polynesians how to navigate by the stars again enabling modern ocean going waka to re-create these amazing journeys. Navigation is more than just knowing how to get somewhere it is forming an identity that is based on the ocean and understanding bird life, sea life, weather, currents etc.