Lawyers have specialties just as physicians, nurses, etc. Speaking with the legal team at your fiance's employer is a good first step but a second opinion from a lawyer with experience in family law (specifically with grandparents rights) should be your next step.
Even if you haven't been sued, I'd still talk to a family law lawyer and get a definitive answer as to the likelihood of them being able to assert grandparents' rights. You may also wish to consider cutting them out of your life entirely, or setting firm visitation boundaries. The lawyer can help you with that.
In all cases, if you are sued, you must respond. Others have suggested hiring a family law lawyer and that's the best possible advice. Even if the law is on your side, this will be profoundly difficult for you to handle on your own.
The problem is that you really need to see an attorney in your state as this type of law varies by state. Here in California, a grandparent can ask the court for "reasonable" visitation with a grandchild. But the courts must find that Find that there was a pre-existing relationship between grandparent and grandchild that has “engendered a bond.” The court must also balance the best interest of the child in having visitation with a grandparent with the rights of the parents to make decisions about their child.
Grandparents' visitation is usually only ordered when there is a pre-existing, important relationship between the grandparents and grandchild which the birth parents are now interfering with, and when such visitation is in the best interests if the child. Nothing you've described sounds to me like anything close to what would be required. But I am not licensed in Ohio and am not familiar with its specific laws. In the jurisdiction where I am licensed I do not think your parents' suit would have much if any chance of success, assuming the facts are as you have explained them.
That being said, if an action has been filed, you must respond. Consult with a few family law attorneys on Monday. You do not want to face family court without an attorney - obtain one even if doing so is a moderate financial hardship.