Struggles over the definition of truth and historical/scientific facts are not new, but they're very much in the foreground these days. Disinformation is weaponized and exploited by all kinds of bad actors across all media and myriad topics. Attacks on the validity of expert opinion are common, and in addition to their specific impacts in the debates of the day, add up to an erosion in the public conception of "truth." There's an increasing sense among many people, I think, that a lot of the time it's just too damn hard to know what the truth is in a lot of situations.
Economics is a classic example of a field that could use this level of professionalism and objectivity. Particularly since there's a lot of misunderstanding (as I see it) about exactly how "hard" a science economics is, regardless of which school or theory you may follow. I think the AH practice of placing everything in the context of how confident you can be in any given statement, and the lack of patience for disingenuous or fallacious rhetorical arguments, would be incredibly valuable.
I'm going to go further than that. It's something I've been thinking about for awhile. I think this subreddit and its rule/mod structure is actually Important in a philosophical and political sense and probably deserves some study in its own right.
In any case, I agree that economics is a textbook example of a field that could use AH-style moderation of an Ask subreddit. I wish I had enough time on my hands to spearhead starting one up, but it sadly isn't in the cards. (I could contribute, but I can't imagine the dedication the AH mods have!) I've tried to be a bit more active in various Econ subs, but it doesn't really seem to do much. Maybe I could convince the AH mods to let me make a [meta] post here advertising to those who might be interested in starting up/moderating a similar "AE" subreddit...? Just a thought.
Haha, maybe . That Aztec fellow really made an impression on my impressionable young mind. The issue also had cool drawings of what Tenochtitlan looked like in its heyday which was cool. It's a bit of random. I really remember which was in a story 'the amazing armadillo', which is still probably the best photograph of a jumping armadillo, ever. featured in an article on the human sense of smell is unforgettable. was memorable, you don't think of robbers loot as being chips. Also (randomly) the 'futuristic' car ads inside the cover from the early 80s with Ricardo Montalban, which were severely dated by the time I was seeing them!
Personal favorite would have to be Titanic, as said, I'm pretty sure there isn't one that I went back and looked at more times. It had these big, multi-page fold-outs with composite photos of the wreck. (I think ).
I've been thinking about that one. I legitimately suspect it might end up being one of those cases where the mods have to have a pre-written post about "Alright guys, this is what happened", lock it, and then block submissions for a bit.