My last comment was apparently hidden without my knowing. I want to give information from a historical perspective on the subject of the "eternal, uncreated" nature of the Quran since it informs why the surah aren't represented in chronological order. I'm currently agnostic on the issue since my own long-term research into the topic has made me suspend my beliefs long ago. Now I'm more interested in the historical information, which is what I want to provide here. So let me try this again:
This "Heavenly Quran" is also not necessarily the Quran itself, but it has historically been interpreted as such. The "concealed book" mentioned in the Quranic verses would have been revealed during the lifetime of the Prophet, before the Quran itself was put into book form. The Quran was only made into a book because those who had memorized it were dying in combat. After the Prophet passed away, Zayd bin Thabit was ordered to collect the oral and written sources and assemble it into a single volume: the Quran. So there were passages written down but they were not collected until after the life of the Prophet.
Accounts differ on the number of scribes that wrote during the Prophet’s life ranging from 48-65. Dozens are named in the paper above. Chief among them was a young Zayd ibn Thabit who was responsible for not only writing the Quran down and cross-referencing it with the Prophet, but commissioned by Uthman ibn Affan after the Prophet’s death to compile it into one mushaf or physical binding (i.e a single book).
So to summarize: the Quran was not only written during the Prophet’s life, but under his supervision. The ordering of the surahs is authoritative all the way back to him according to the majority view. In another Hadith, the Prophet discusses how the Angel Gabriel would come down to him every Ramadan and review the Quran that had been revealed up to that point in time. As I’m sure you know, the tradition claims that the Quran was revealed piecemeal over the 23 year period of his prophethood. It was during these visits would the ordering of the text be revealed, and the Prophet would recite it in that order during the night prayers of Ramadan.
Sorry, I don't know much about Islamic theology, so the answer might be obvious, but what is the chronological order the Quran was revealed in based on? How reliable is that considered?