To add a bit to this, it's worth pointing out that Chernobyl and TMI share a lot of similarities. Both involved reactor operators in a state of not knowing what was happening in the reactor (see also, Windscale), and both involved partial meltdowns of the reactor. The difference in ultimate severity of impact comes about partly due to fundamental design differences (Chernobyl's RBMK design being graphite moderated with a high positive void coefficient and no proper containment vessel, basically a recipe for disaster) with TMI being designed a bit better, but also a little bit to luck (e.g. lack of a hydrogen explosion).
Edit: One more thing to add is that even though the 1970s were well down from the high water mark of "nuclear mania" of the 1950s there was still a considerable amount of wild-eyed enthusiasm about nuclear energy which lead to many questionably valuable and questionably safe projects floating around then. One particular example being the Liquid Metal Fast Breeder Reactor (LMFBR) program which had kicked off in 1970 with a very high priority. These would be expensive, potentially dangerous, and would be trivial to use for production of fissile material for nuclear weapons. Contrast that with the direction of nuclear reactor technology in the '90s and after with Gen III/III+ and Gen IV reactor designs which specifically optimized for better safety, more cost effectiveness, reduction of high level waste, and greater proliferation resistance. In between those two eras it's clear the nuclear industry in the US took a huge direction shift. A good chunk of that started early with the reaction to the Three Mile Island accident, which brought a great degree of criticism and skepticism (especially from the public at large and the popular media) to nuclear technology and industry in general.
All of which is to say, the public takeaway from Three Mile Island was that nuclear reactors were far more dangerous than they had been led to believe, that the authorities were at best ignorant and at worst liars, and that they had barely missed out on a major catastrophe.