This shit hole of a country has been a money pit for centuries. Close off the place and stop pumping money into it. Every dollar gets stolen and used by the Taliban always. Let these people live in the bed they made. They never wanted a country, never wanted to fight for anything. Let the taliban run the shit hole.
If you want to stop a governing body like the Taliban you stop feeding them. Every time food and other aid arrives it is the same as paying a tribute to them. It's the same problem with North Korea. All aid can and should be considered foreign governments paying tribute. It props up the ruling groups.
Terrorism? I know the Taliban is shit but they don't normally carry out terrorist actions outside their own borders. They don't have a movement to want their form of Islam spread everywhere, they want to be left alone in their own borders. They are not ISIS or Al Qaeda.
It is a pretty open secret that the Taliban are providing info on different groups and getting them killed to US intelligence. Al Qaeda's Ayman al-Zawahiri who we killed this year was gifted to us on a silver platter. In an afluent backyard in Kabul he was killed by a US Reaper drone without a single other injury occuring.
For over a decade now the Taliban themselves have been fighting a battle against inside and outside groups like ISIL. There are wiki articles curtailing these battles. Even while the US was in country the Taliban were carrying out large scale offenses in the east against ISIL. Sometimes killing upwards of 200 fighters at a time. It would be naive to think the US wasn't feeding them info back in 2018 and 19 during these large operations.
Edit: Why am I getting down voted? It's like you guys don't actually know about Afghanistan at all. The Taliban are a conservative governing body that wants to mainly be left alone inside their own borders to carry out their form of Islam. A majority of the male population supports them in the country. They are not and have not been a terrorist organization carrying out activities against western countries. Their activities take place in Afghanistan and Pakistan. They have harbored some terrorist groups like Al Qaeda but in recent years it appears they don't want anything to do with any of these groups and are feeding intelligence groups with info.