Lots of government workers live in Virginia, so it hits home for them a lot more than elsewhere in the country. Basically almost all of Northern VA either works for the government directly or on contract, or in some kind of capacity supporting all that (ie that's who the bulk of the customers are if you run a store/restaurant/etc).
I was lucky during the big shutdown in 2013, because I worked as a contractor in a DoD facility that was deemed essential, and my contract had enough funding already allocated that they could continue to pay us for the time being, since it was disbursed in 3 month increments or something like that. Had we been close to the end of that period when the shutdown happened, or had it gone on past that date, I'd have been in just as bad of a bucket as all of my military and government civilian coworkers, who had to show up for work and weren't getting paid, while still having bills to pay.
Oh, and another thing - as a contractor, no, you don't get paid if you're not working, unless the company you work for invents something else for you to do. They bill your hours to the government, and they cannot bill for hours not worked. Government civilians (GS, GG, etc) only get paid for the time they were furloughed if Congress votes to do so (it's not automatic). Only the military automatically gets paid once the shutdown ends.
Maybe, but it's hard to say for certain. He'd probably try to thread the same needle he did in 2021 in the Governor's race by pandering just enough to the crazies while putting on a reasonable face for the rest, while hoping to emerge from the early pack as a consensus pick. Odds are he won't get past Iowa or so, but you never know.
There's one Democratic State Senator who proclaims himself "strongly pro life" so with 21-19, the Republicans could've had the Lt Gov break a tie, potentially, if they got him to sign on.
Just curious: the article implies that even had this gone the other way, Democrats would still have a 21-19 majority in the state Senate. Does this mean there are Democrats who are anticipated to vote in favor of an abortion ban? That honestly seems like a pretty tone-deaf move in a moderate state right now...