It sounds like they're telling you to follow the HOA rules, and if you don't, they'll sue you. Nothing wrong with that.
Regarding your membership in the HOA... There are circumstances under which you are part of the HOA when it's reasonable to think that you're not. You should probably speak with an attorney who specializes in real property matters.
I would love to speak to an attorney that deals with this in Texas but everyone I've contacted so far does not handled this area of real property law. If I could have found an attorney that practices this area of property law I would gladly make an appointment with them immediately.
Also I'm not a member of the homeowners association. And they excluded my lot under the deed restriction as a lot but yet they're claiming jurisdiction over my land as a lot.
The distinction here is I am being threatened with potential lawsuit and potential and Junction for something that hasn't even occurred yet. it is an unlawful communication to threaten somebody with the intent to secure a certain outcome or a certain upper hand or leverage on another person. And since the lawyer is threatening to sue me for something that hasn't even happened yet that makes it in the realm of an unlawful communication. It would be different if he was threatening to sue me for something I've already done to try to get me to come into compliance.
"I'm going to sue you if you don't give me what you owe" is not unlawful communication. "I'm going to burn your house down if you don't give me $50,000" is. The communication has the be an unlawful threat. There is nothing unlawful about filing a lawsuit.
If they have a valid cause of action they can maintain a lawsuit, yes. I have no idea what that cause of action might be, based on the few facts you've provided. Contesting whether they have a valid cause of action against you is something your attorney would do.
You're right there's nothing unlawful about filing a lawsuit. but threatening a lawsuit for something that hasn't happened yet is the distinction. and I don't owe anything and I'm not a member of the homeowners association. they've excluded my lot under the deed restrictions and declared it not a lot. I don't owe them anything and I have done nothing but I'm being threatened with a lawsuit. As a way of preventing me from doing something. if you read the link provided previously for the definition of unlawful communication it is my opinion that this Falls in that Realm.