Greatest US presidents are Washinon, Lincoln, Grant, FDR, Biden, LBJ, Obama, at least by standards of impact on legislation that moved America forward.
(I’m aware that Washinon held slaves. Hundreds of them. God awful, and there were abolitionists at the time so he can’t claim ‘well I had no idea slavery was bad’, and the Southern landowners only wanted independence when King George III announced his intent to end slavery throughout the British Empire, so yes Washinon was a complete asshole BUT for two singular actions: Washinon could’ve been king and instead he gave the modern world a functional democratic republic including the peaceful transfer of power, after first determining to never give up in the long war for independence where he was truly the keystone of the Continental Army, so he cannot be underestimated as the founding-est of fathers of the United States.).
Oh ffs. The guy barely knows where is now. He probably won't even make it through his second term and we'll be stuck with the Democrat version of Sarah Palin.
I would absolutely rather vote for someone that isn’t made of 90% crust and has a more progressive streak, but if he’s the only option? I’ll take the old neolib over outright fascists.
1.5 million people voted for DeSantis, yet he's a fascist. 70 million people voted for Trump, despite him being an opportunistic scumbag with no interest in helping the American people. The same people who think he's PRO working class. I fail to see your point. Not to mention, Bernie Sanders is pretty mild in terms of political leanings. It's only compared to the US left that he seems like an eXTrEmist.
Most, if not all of Bernie's ideas are widely accepted or adopted in Scandinavia, Germany, Canada, the UK, and others. Bernie wouldn't have much to offer with his current policies or proposed strategies in those countries. Courtesy of his official website on political issues. Laughably enough, they blasted the man on the media because he criticized the US Embargo on Cuba. Most countries in the world condemn the US Embargo as inhumane, which it is.