I would like to disagree with the french moving the furthest away from latin. I'm not sure we can measure it precisely. From the lexical point of view, for example, it's Romanian language that has the least roots inherited from Latin.
Furthermore, the amazing thing about latin in particular is that something very close to the original root language has still survived in a written language form. Although modern day latin is not exactly the same as ancient latin, or vulgar latin, you can still follow it\s own development over the centuries by studying what religious tradition has kept alive. It would go entirely too far to go into detail on this part of language history here, but I need to include that religion has aided, at least during the later centuries, to keep latin roots alive and renewed influences into the language where they might have otherwise died out over time. Thus, religion has certainly played its part to keep latin alive in written and in spoken form.
Latin has never died out, it has been transformed over time and morphed into different modern day languages while religious practice has kept something close to the original form alive and spoken as well.
At any rate, the Neo-Latin Languages have different amounts of closeness to vulgar latin, and thus, not all of them carry the same amounts of old words as the next one, but they all use a substancial amount of word-roots you can find in ancient latin even in their modern day commonly spoken dialects. While italian is viewed as the modern day language the closest to vulgar latin, which is certainly owed to the fact that it sits at the location of the ancient center or the roman empire, and has been heavily influenced by religious tradition, too, French has become the language the farthest away from its latin roots. You can, however, see some of the complicated roots of latin grammar rules in modern day french grammar, too, so it\s not impossible to find the similarities if you look for them.
Vulgar latin can\t be treated as an isolated language when compared to what we understand as classical latin, or the latin of literature, and may not be treated as language of the lower class. Several theories of the last centuries, however, have treated it as exactly that - a different, lower class language with little in common with the language of classical literature. However, the entire concept of language families, at least when trying to explain it as briefly as possible, still works with the distinction between the latin of literature, or the written form which has heavily influenced what we understand as latin nowadays, and the commmonly spoken form, vulgar latin, which has influenced the spoken word. Most sources, in this context, don\t treat vulgar latin as an entirely different class dependant form of latin, but use it as means of distinction between writen and spoken form. Although there are, of course, several exceptions to this which are heavily discussed in modern theory for their underlying no longer acceptable theories of class and race. It may not be entirely correct in modern discourse, but the term is still used in a large number of historical sources, thus it made sense to use for the post above, too.