It's not unheard of for teens to start having sex at 13-ish in the West, and those efforts often don't involve protection.
Edit: According to this study, about 12% of students in the US had made their “sexual debut” by the age of 13. Certainly a minority, but it’s simply not accurate to say that 13 year olds in the West aren’t having sex. Plenty of them are. There are lots of factors (like poverty or a history of abuse) that increase the likelihood, but that doesn’t make them not count.
They said “not unheard of” which implies that it’s uncommon but happens, which it sounds like you agree with.
The unfortunate reality is that, even in the West, early sexual experiences are more common among those who live in poverty, which correlates to the statistics from Tanzania.
It's kind of hard to believe that USA teen pregnancy rate is astronomically higher than Tanzania, and you kind of know that Tanzania's population is going to skew younger than USA population which should further skew the numbers.
Probably the USA numbers of teen pregnancies are the entire population, whereas the Tanzania numbers are only people in primary or secondary school maybe even in particular areas only. In the USA, the number of children in schools is probably almost the same number as children at all, the number of children not in school is nonzero but small. In Tanzania, it might not be true. If most of their school-aged people are in fact NOT in school (as might be likely with country of PPP GDP \= $3300) that might explain the disparity in rates. There is probably a reporting disparity as well; in the US almost every single birth of this nature is going to be recorded, maybe not so much in Tanzania.
Anyway, I am sure that this school pregnancy issue is a problem in Tanzania that needs to be addressed. They wouldn't be bothering to write this article if this wasn't considered a problem and I believe them. I just wish there was a little more context about the nature of the problem and how they came up with the numbers.