It should be pointed out that the reason for the pauses in A Night At The Opera are for a slightly different reason than the Marx Brothers "still" keeping the pauses in their patter. The Marx Brothers were adept film comedians by that point. While their first two films have similar pauses, being adaptations of stage shows, their next three films don't. Those are the three films preceding A Night At The Opera.
Take one of the my favorite Marx Brothers bits, the "Contract Scene" from A Night at the Opera in 1935. "Like Who's on First," this is a back-and-forth, which in a theatre would probably seem pretty quick. However, on film, without laughter, you quickly realize that there are a lot of pauses built in. Usually, Groucho will give some long, exasperated look during these, so that there's some kind of business going on.
There's still comedic value in pausing and mugging, especially when the canned laughter is helping you sell punchlines. Shows without laugh tracks are almost always much quicker in their dialogue:
Not that it's ever gone away, as the many clips you can find online of modern comedies without their laugh tracks can attest:
As for if there is a norm for film to record laughter, we can look to the history of the laugh track, or "sweetening". Sweetening was performed to enhance or reduce an audience reaction to be in line with the producer's wishes, or to keep an audience reaction similar across multiple takes. The reason for Sweetening and laugh tracks for the radio or TV experience was because they were home mediums. Immediately prior to the rise of TV and Radio and overlapping well into the TV and Radio era, when you watched a comedy show or other performance live, you would be seated in an audience. In enjoying the comedy in a live performance, you would hear other audience member's laughter. Without hearing fellow-audience members reaction in the home medium as you were without the company of a large audience, the comedy shows sounded un-natural and not as funny to the audience of the time. Audience laughter was explicitly recorded or a laugh track added to provide the communal experience in a home environment.