Yes, the laws are the father's favor, but in practice, it doesn't always happen. I've done a number of parenting evaluations for situations like this, as well as ones where dad knew of the baby but mom didn't inform him she was in labor, and the baby was removed by CPS at the hospital. Also ones where mom had physical custody and dad did or didn't have involvement, then mom had the children removed by CPS. And a few with flipped genders and a few with same-sex legal parents.
What I find almost unequivocally is that with upper-middle-class parents, about half of the time CPS calls the other parent to come take the kids. This is legally what is supposed to happen unless there's a complicating factor like the second parent has been granted no custody, there's a restraining order, parent has massive concerning CPS history. The other half of the time, they treat the (usually father) like it's a homestudy to adopt his own children.
Even if the child was adopted already (I'm adopted) there is an interim period- giving biological parents the opportunity to change their minds- or find out - whatever the case may be. Get a lawyer stat.
I am a lawyer, and not your lawyer. I am not certified in Florida. I’m actually speaking here from knowledge of foster care.
We have actually fostered a baby who was given up through a shelter program before. When the baby is left at the hospital, CPS will take them and they’ll place them with a foster family. I don’t know about Florida but at least in my state, there is actually a six month waiting period to see if any family comes forward. At the end of that six months they would actually go looking for some family, but if no one has come forward they don’t have to look very hard.
As others have said, contact your local CPS and indicate that you have reason to believe that a baby was given up at the hospital that is actually your child. They will work with you to process to be out of foster care. You may have to jump through some hoops and get a DNA test. The dad in our case had to take parenting classes do home visits and a couple other things for about six months.