Just going to make one of my boring remarks on Persian stylings here. It's actually a bit more similar than your comparison suggests, if we look at the Achaemenids (whose influence on Northern India at minimum extends to enabling the spread of writing). Their most frequent styling was in fact "xshayathiya vazraka xshayathiya xshayathiyanam", viz., "great king, king of kings". It's also conceivable that Indo-Greek kings could've used similar stylings, like "Megas Basileus ton Basileon", though I off-hand don't know of any example of "King of Kings" and "Great King" actually being _combined_ in a Near Eastern or Hellenic context.
While I don't think the Indo-Greeks used "Megas Basileus ton Basileon," "Basileos Basileon Megalou" appeared frequently on Indo-Scythian coins while Kushan coins also used "Basileos Basileon" until switching to Kushan or Bactrian "Shaonanoshao," which is of course cognate with the Persian title. Interestingly, no ruler in India uses "Mahārājādhirāja" until Chandragupta I (the Gupta), suggesting he either adopted the Kushan title or independent title inflation.
Okay, so there is clearly a lot to unpack here. Aside from the grisly details of the actual process of the sacrifice, there is quite a bit of figurative language and mythological background to this sacrifice. Notably absent is any beheading, as in later traditions and the Ṛgvedic hymn to the Aśvins, rather, the horse is staked and then stripped of flesh which is then cooked, notably leaving the limbs intact. There is an immense degree of respect given to the horse during the process, while it is a sacrifice to feed the gods (humans would never partake in the cooked meat, rather they would offer it to fire or bury it), its spirit is set free to roam in the heavens. The horse is both the subject and the receiver of the sacrifice in some ways, as it is given prosperity in heaven but its bodily form is given to the gods as a magnificent feast, too sacred for humans to partake in. The horse is furthermore given the utmost respect during the sacrifice and is dressed in finery during it, later accounts and depictions would have it painted with holy paints and sandalwood paste. It is also notably that not only is the next hymn directly in praise of a horse but that perhaps the largest section of the Yajurveda describes the hymns and oblations to be done before and during the sacrifice. While this may seem barbaric to the modern reader, we have to understand that this was a ritual done with the utmost respect and in many ways love by those who conducted it. It was a dignified process.
As time went on, even then the sexual imagery became even more abstract and Prajāpati became a moniker of whichever god the sacrifice chose, often Śiva or Viṣṇu, who would become the central deities of Hinduism. The horse sacrifice was actually performed as late as the 18th century, though in a radically different form, showing the evolution of the ritual.