Yes, that is exactly what the strict settlement was devised for. "Okay, we can't say that this will pass on the male line forever ... we'll just hope that future generations continue to see the wisdom in forcing their sons to make settlements down the line.".
Yes. Approximately one in six women never married, but the majority had no issue in finding a partner. Dowries could come in any number of ways and sometimes they were not very large at all. Hester Piozzi was married to the enormously rich Henry Thrale a few years after the death of George II and had virtually no dowry at all, but she was pretty and young and her family ancient and well-connected, which more than made up for a lack of resources at hand. Thrale needed a young wife with a good pedigree to advance in society, and Piozzi needed a rich husband who would look beyond her limited means. After his death she spurned Dr. Johnson’s advances to marry a penniless Italian nobleman who worked in London as a musician. Rich through her own hard work and assisted by Dr. Johnson’s lyrical salesmanship (“Gentlemen, we are not here to sell a parcel of boilers and vats, but the potentiality of growing rich, beyond the dreams of avarice.”), Hester developed an independent and happy life once she sold Thrale’s brewery and began writing on her own.
This is too speculative point to authoritatively answer, but this could happen in rare circumstances. As the paterfamilias you would be expected to care for your entire family and your father would have taken provisions to make this happen. You would, in all likelihood, face significant local scorn for casting your mother out of your household. As a widower, she may also have significant financial power from her own dowry, or additional property she possesses in her own right too.
So that's a step up from the Feudal system where an aristocrat's lands were inalienable, that is, impossible to sell, partly on account of them belonging to future generations, partly on account of being a gift from a King to your family. Here, you get a choice once every three generations? When did the system get fully privatized/liberalized, so that a father was at leisure to liquidate the entire estate if they saw fit, and otherwise dispose of their private property in whichever way they desired?