It's perfectly legal for them to require that you deal with the 32 other citations you were already issued before they release the dog back to you. You proceed by fixing the things you were ticketed for and then making sure you don't pick up any more citations because the way this is going your dog is going to be put down and no amount of being upset about "due process" will change that you didn't keep control of him and he's ultimately the one who paid for it.
This is a lot of words in both the post and comment to basically say that you are consistently not in compliance with animal control laws. You have THIRTY TWO TICKETS from them. 32. And now it seems the dog was roaming and "picked up again". The accusation is enough and frankly I don't think you deserve that dog back if you are so incapable of keeping him in control that you've been cited 32 times for it. You are at the very least immensely irresponsible and at the worst you are criminally negligent because your dog bit someone.
You have the designation now and have been wilfully and knowingly out of compliance for months, you knew the dog was capable of aggression from the first incident in the parking lot and from this neighbour incident bite or no bite. You can have a Lawyer familiar with dog bite and dangerous dogs Law see if you can possibly appeal now this far after the fact. If you didn't already lose an appeal? You haven't directly answered the appeal question so as it stands right now you have a dangerous Dog and need to comply.
• Right now the dog is declared dangerous and you need to comply with that or face citations, even charges, and the impounding of the dog. You need to handle the tickets since you admit you were out of compliance.
Much of this sounds unbelievable. I appreciate you answering some of my questions although there is lot of rambling stuff and it's tough with no paragraph breaks to parse.(BTW you gotta double carriage return/enter to make line breaks, I know it's especially aggravating formatting on Reddit on Mobile though it better than it used to be!).
a. There are two prior incident reports concerning the same neighbor, myself and my dog. The first one is a report initiated by my wife 2 years prior when she witnessed the neighbor apparently standing on something to elevate him from his side of a privacy fence that separates our property to where he was leaning over to our side antagonizing our dog luring him to the fence where he was at a close distance and began striking our dog on his head with a hammer. The police were called who made a preliminary report before handing the call over to Animal Control. An investigator went over to question the neighbor where upon the neighbor took full accountability and admitted to assaulting the dog with a hammer giving the reason that he wanted to show the dog he was boss and not to bark in his presence. He apologized and they closed the case. 2nd incident happened the day after Thanksgiving 2019 when I found 3 turkey neck bones with a strange orange colored substance on them as well as what I defined as leftovers such as rice and green vegetables that had already been cooked dumped over his fence onto my yard. My wife notified Animal Control which came and collected the discarded food and went next door to ask the neighbor if he had thrown the food. He said that yes he did throw the food over in case the dogs were hungry. The investigator then came and asked me if I was willing to be neighborly in the spirit of the holidays and shake hands and accept his apology and move past it. I agreed with the condition that it was documented and made permanent record.