On the one hand, Tom is clearly an unsympathetic in the book- and not just in the book as a whole, but even in the passage: he is condescending and demeaning to his wife (of course in the book it turns out that he's having an affair) and the protagonist is surprised at Tom's vehemence and calls it pathetic. It is clear that whatever Tom may THINK about his own racial superiority, in the universe of the novel he is not superior at all. So it is a very valid interpretation to see Fitzgerald as using scientific racism to skewer Tom and show what a terrible person he is (in contrast to his own opinion of himself, where he sees himself as superior for the way he was born and condescends to someone like Gatsby who is self-made). It's clear that the abovementioned passage is not complimentary to Tom and that readers should know this, and indeed, many scholars, including scholars of scientific racism who discuss the novel, end it here.
Scientific racism (very briefly) was the belief that race is an innate biological concept that can be explained evolutionarily. It originated in the 18th century as early naturalists and anthropologists placed humans within the animal kingdom and differentiated them by "species." As these ideas grew more popular, it became more and more accepted to not just classify the races by their appearances and biological characteristics but to rank them, whether in terms of their intelligence, their beauty (particularly that of their women), their hygiene, and their ability to be productive members of society, among other things, and as Darwinian evolution became accepted, it soon was incorporated to give a feeling of urgency to the situation- that the races were competing with each other and that lesser races could "pollute" higher ones. These ideas became popular enough that they became influential on government policies in the US and elsewhere- immigration policy, sterilization policies, and anti-miscegenation laws, among others, were clearly and heavily influenced by scientific racism and eugenics to the extent that scholars generally consider that Nazi Germany was heavily influenced by the US in this matter.
This is a historiographic aside, but I tend to think that scholars have overemphasized the US eugenics movement's influence on Nazi policy and sidelined the role of the rather prominent Weimar eugenics movement. As a result, some of the historical literature suffers (e.g. Fritzsche's Germans into Nazis, going strictly off my recollection) has a very odd structure where the Nazis seem able to build eugenicist thought almost from the ground up. Or, the Nazis at least have a unique ability to persuade people of their way of thinking.
You mentioned that some scholars believe Nazi Germany to have been influenced by US racial policies. Sounds interesting, do you know where I could read more about that?