The first European/white\ Jew to visit the Beta Israel was Joseph Halévy, a French scholar of Semitic languages who also spoke Amharic (by then the regional Ethiopian language) and Ge'ez (the local liturgical language among the Beta Israel). In addition to teaching, he also worked for the Alliance Israelite Universelle, a French Jewish organization which saw it as its mission to provide education, culture, and material improvements to various MENA Jewish communities, many of which suffered from endemic poverty and persecution. They did a lot of good in many ways throughout the Jewish MENA (they did great work in having antisemitic laws and accusations struck down, for example), most notably through their French-language Jewish schools, though much of this involved secularizing and Westernizing long-standing Jewish communities to mixed response.
They were VERY different! In fact, in some ways it's almost easier to go through similarities (observance of some major Jewish holidays, circumcision, praying for Jerusalem, a seven day mourning period, just off the top of my head) rather than differences, as the entirety of the Oral Law (such as the Talmud) through which modern Judaism has developed was absent among the Beta Israel. Some Beta Israel practices, like animal sacrifice and purifying after contact with a dead body using the ashes of a red heifer, represent Torah practices that are no longer in use in normative Judaism. In many respects, the observances of the Beta Israel were quite similar to those of their Christian neighbors, but of course in form rather than in intent, as the Beta Israel (at least those who didn't convert to Christianity at any point) rejected Jesus and the New Testament.
The important thing when thinking about Beta Israel religious traditions is that we are reasonably certain at this point that the Beta Israel started as a group of Ethiopian Christians who rediscovered Jewish traditions through their use of the Ethiopian Christian bible and church materials. The versions of the texts that the Beta Israel use are identical to the Christian versions of the text, and are often bought from or repurposed from Christian scribes, to the point where pre-existing crosses and references to Jesus/Mary/etc. need to be effaced. If you see an Ethiopian book with the centre of the leather covering on the front board cut out, it is likely because it was owned at some point by the Beta Israel, who removed the cross which is typically part of the decorative tooling in that spot. So, when thinking of the difference between them and other Jewish groups which exist in a continuity of practice without the interruption of Christianity, you an basically write off any practice which is not explicitly in the Old Testament, as received through the Ethiopic translation. The Beta Israel used Ge'ez as their liturgical language, like the Ethiopian church, had monastic practices in the Christian tradition, and as I already mentioned, actually repurposed Christian texts for their service books commonly enough that it is a known practice. How to define whether they were historically Jewish is bound up in Jewish conceptions of who is a jew, and whether a group that defined themselves as such could participate. Since a formal process of making sure that they were Jewish in the way that the Israeli state understands what it means to be so was carried out, today they are unambiguously Jewish.