this is exactly what was happening in late February early march. every "ceasefire" theyd just stop firing but move up and surround their next target. and break the ceasefire.
WHy would they ceasefire? To give Russia time to regroup and train their reservers? FUCK THAT. Only peace there will be is for them to get out of Ukraine.
Oh, like the other ceasefires where Ukraine stopped shooting only to allow Russia to shoot at them anyway. No way in hell I would trust a single thing that Russia says. Trust only what they do. If they want a ceasefire, they should abandon all weapons and walk back to Russia.
If Russia wants peace, they should turn, face east, and march their invading asses straight back to Moscow. If the West wants peace, it should tell Russia the same, not whine to Ukraine about their defense of their own country.
Aside from the facts (1) that Russia is still occupying parts of Ukraine’s sovereign territory, (2) that Ukraine would need to agree to hand that territory (and more) over to Russia to secure a so-called “peace,” and (3) that Ukraine would need to swear “neutrality,” forgo all defensive alliances, and expose themselves to future invasions, Russia simply cannot be trusted.
Anyone asking Ukraine to hand over parts of their sovereign territory, agree to neutrality, and risk all of this happening again is a shortsighted fool who still hasn’t learned Rule 1 when dealing with Russia: Never trust the Russians. This has been true my entire life, and it will be true for the foreseeable future, no matter how much we wish it weren’t. We can either live in the real world or be fools.
Ukraine trusted Russia once almost 30 years ago when Russia promised not to claim any Ukrainian territory as their own in exchange for Ukraine giving up the nuclear weapons left over after the fall of the USSR. Russia violated that agreement in 2014. They continue to violate it today. Those are the facts. We also know that peace cannot last if Russia is rewarded for stealing territory. They will be back later, just as they are now after annexing Crimea eight years ago. Rewards for bad behavior only embolden the offending party.