I would say that two details might be narrowing the answer more than you think. Written menus were probably not common before the 18th century, because writing surfaces were expensive and not everyone could read and it was easier to have the server just explain what was available (I think there is one Roman inscription with a price list, but it is on stone). So if you visited a Roman taberna, they would probably have two or three grades each of wine and bread and oil, and maybe two or three hot dishes simmering on a griddle, and the proprietor would tell you if you could not see and answer your questions about prices. Maybe his did not have something you wanted as part of the meal, but the taberna two doors down did.
Second, the idea of a sit-down restaurant as a place for the polite family is not so common. You could go have something to eat with your beer at an Old Babylonian beer house 4000 years ago, but they were full of drunks and disreputable people and women of negotiable virtue. This gets us into the comment by about how some aspects of American restaurant culture are very recent marketing choices (and others go back to the aftermath of the French Revolution when aristocrats' personal chefs needed to find a way of making a living without a single patron) whereas the basic idea of a restaurant goes back thousands of years.
In conclusion, you could go to just about any established restaurant and point to what you wanted on a menu pretty much throughout history, but it wasn't until the end of the 19th century that you could reasonably expect consistency between dishes.
Towards the end of the 19th century there were two cook books that were changing the hospitality scene in huge ways. The first was Fanny Farmers Cookbook. Published in 1896 this was the go to book for the Boston Cooking School. This was the first school of it's kind opened in America, and while it targeted a largely feminine base the impact it had cannot be understated, it educated it's students on nutritional requirements as well as helped to homogenize measurement techniques. The Boston Cooking School, and Fanny Farmers cookbook laid the foundation for all modern American kitchens. Before the popularization of this book a recipe might call for a piece of butter or a "little" milk.
Here is a link to an older Fanny Farmer cookbook, I could not find an uploaded version of her 1896 text but 1918 text was still was authored full by her.
As you can see, the recipes are in a modern easy to recognize format. This laid much of the groundwork for how a modern american kitchen works. You follow a recipe, serve and repeat.
On the other side of the coin is Auguste Escoffier. He popularized what is now the standard for a fine dining restaurant. He ran more than a few of the standard setting restaurants at the time(his productive years were 1884 to 1928). Such as the Savoy hotel in london, the Paris Ritz, The Carlton in London, and the Ritz London.