I don't know that this has been adequately proven, in Goldsworthy's work or elsewhere. As far as I can tell, we simply don't know enough about the Carthaginians to say anything definitive about their way of war, no histories of their own surviving comparable to the works of Polybios and Livy. There's the treaty with the Macedonians, but a whole philosophy of warfare is a hell of a lot to hang on the implications of one secondhand treaty. Since we see that fighting until the total prostration or destruction of the enemy was quite rare in Roman warfare as well [it wasn't until the third Macedonian/Punic war that Rome destroyed the defeated power]. On the other hand, Polybios's remarks that Hannibal's invasion gave rise to Carthaginian hopes of carrying Rome itself by assault IMO would seem to leave the matter in an indefinite abeyance.
Hannibal's plan was through either capture, or more favourably defection, remove the various allies and subjects of Rome until it was forced to accept favourable terms. Even Hannibal never planned on sieging Rome, we can see this in his treaty with Philip V were they both expect Rome to be around after the war. It should be noted this is pretty similar to what the Romans did to Carthage in the very same war. Remove its allies and conquer enough territory to where it is forced to accept peace. The Romans never planned on besieging the city either during the second Punic war.
Lets take the siege of Carthage as an example. Rome amassed a huge army, along with a second force of Numidian allies, and a full fleet. It amassed huge resources logistically for the campaign that probably could not be replicated by most other states around at the time. It continually reinforced this army with new manpower. By this time Carthage had been reduced to being a rump state. While still a powerful city itself it had lost the vast majority of its former territory and power and could count on no forces from other parts of its state to come and relieve the siege. This is compounded by the fact Carthage had no navy at the time and days before the siege was forced by the Romans to give up all of their weapons and ammunition. Despite this the siege lasted for 3 years, involved several roman defeats and tenacious fighting from the Carthaginians, coming very near to failure several times. Things were only restored by Scipio Aemilianus. Essentially taking a city as large as Carthage or Rome was near impossible unless you had virtually unlimited resources,time and manpower in which to conduct a siege.
Also, how was a young Rome not bled dry by these undertakings of such a massive scale, whereas it seems that Carthage's attempts were exceedingly costly to itself.
In Conclusion, Carthage had a different military culture to Rome, it had need of troops else where, where they performed poorly, it took a long time to raise and train troops, and reaching Hannibal was difficult. Even so the Carthaginians did try and reinforce Hannibal, yet these attempts were either too small, stopped by luck or ineptitude, or defeated.
Now onto why didn't Hannibal get the support he needed to win the war? Well there are a couple of reasons.
On your second question. Young Rome was bled dry by this fighting. Carthage gave Rome an extremely hard fight, and she pushed Rome to her very limit, coming closer than anyone else to defeating the Roman Republic. The 3 losses inflicted by Hannibal at Trebia, Trasimene, and Cannae accounted for between 1/5th to 25% of the entire male citizen population of Rome above the age of 17. Particularly the elites had suffered tremendously, the Roman senate had to be filled en masse by inducting new men and families into it because so many senators had died fighting Hannibal. The Romans formed several legions of slaves promised freedom, along with a legion made up of criminals promised a pardon following Cannae, because there was so few men to recruit. Even then they didn't have enough weapons and equipment to arm the soldiers, so the Romans had to take arms and armour from the temples to arm their soldiers, the criminals ended up using Gallic armor and weapons that had been taken at Telamon and Clastidium. The property qualification for serving was lowered, the conscription base was expanded, with younger and older men who would previously not been called up were now conscripted for duty, Rome was scraping the bottom of the barrell. Livy states in the year after Cannae that only 2000 Assidui, that is citzens who held the requisite property requirements to serve, had failed to either be levied or obtain exemption. Taylor goes as far to suggest that essentially every man between 17-40 had served at least one campaign. In fact Goldsworthy suggests that the reason the Romans fared so well against the Hellenistic Kingdoms was that virtually every man in the conscription pool had gained experience during the Punic Wars. While its impossible to come up with totally concrete numbers, a huge proportion of the population of the Republic served during the wars. And remember 80% of southern Italy went over to Hannibal, and Northern Italy was occupied by Gauls, so the Romans are mostly pulling these numbers from Central Italy.