Like, Stonehenge is a cultural artifact, but bread is more conceptual, since it's not the singular loaf that counts, but the cultural importance and craft around that bread.
Intangible because what's really being recognized is the idea of the baguette and the process of cooking one, which can be passed down through oral tradition, recipes, stuff like that. It's more the idea of the baguette. It's so importance in French cuisine and beloved by people all over the world. The idea of the French baguette has inspired a lot of art.
The Vietnamese French Baguette hits different. So flaky and soft. Paired with butter, Brie or pate is heavenly. Also the superior baguette for your charcuterie board.
A good french baguette has a crusty exterior and a soft plushy interior. It is at its absolute best when it is right out of the oven and still warm. But it is also excellent a bit later at room temperature, toasted with some butter spread over it, used to sauce a dish, to make a sandwhich, as a vessel for cheese, etc.
If you ever come to France, try a few bakeries, and sample their baguettes. You might be disappointed after reading all of the above - when all is said and done, it's still just bread, after all; and I don't know if it's the best bread in the world, as different breads serve different functions. But still... it's damn good bread.
French people are very particular about their baguettes. Each french person eats approximately between 1/4 to 1 full baguette per day; bread is eaten alongside dishes at lunch and dinner, and as "tartines" for breakfast. And the french like their bread fresh, so many of them buy new bread every single day (either they buy a full baguette or half a baguette, or "demi-baguette").
To meet this demand, and because daily trips to the bakery only make sense if the bakery is nearby, France has a dense network of tens of thousands of small bakeries all over its territory, thanks to which almost every french person has access to several different bakeries. In big cities, it is normal to have access to 3 or 4 bakeries within a 15 minutes walk radius. Furthermore, each bakery has a day off (sunday or monday typically). On the baker's day off, the clients will sample one of the alternative bakeries in the neighbourhood, and if it is better, the alternative bakery will become the main bakery. This leads to extremely intense competition, due to which every baker in France has to strive for perfection at their craft, or they risk losing their clients.