Your time behind barbed wasn't all that bad, though. You have a university education, you say? What about lecturing at the Hutchinson Camp University? Or sit in on a talk given by some of the most renowned European scholars, caught up in the panic just like you? The same camp had regular performances from musicians and exhibitions by artists (Hutchinson Camp was known as the Artist's Camp due to how many were held there.) Whichever camp you were in, you had access to the seaside, to sports, to the cinema (all under armed guard, although at times the guards had no ammunition). The range of religious faiths among the internees meant that a preacher of your denomination or language was probably interned, and if they weren't then efforts were made to try and provide someone from outside the camps. If you were married, then maybe your wife would also be interned. If you were incredibly lucky, you might be interned together at Rushen Camp, but otherwise there were visits arranged.
That was one of the greatest issues in the early months of internment, and one that Parliament took an interest in. The arrests were so broad and the internment so rushed that you had virulent anti-Semitic fascists sharing, not just camps, but bedrooms with Jewish refugees and left wing exiles. Yes, there were brawls and fighting, but the worst cases of this only lasted a few weeks, as camp administrators and the internees themselves separated the most obvious flashpoints. Once most the fascists/Nazis were separated fights became much rarer, and although there was still a lot of tension (internees could be anti-Nazi but still not want their countries to lose the war), there was also an esprit de corps among the internees - they were in this together, so they might as well get along.
I remember watching an interesting documentary years ago about how the internees on the Isle of Man self-organised along ideological lines... Fascists lived in one apartment building, communists in another, Jews in another, liberals in another, etc, and the different groups would sometimes physically fight each other.