So if I’m understanding your question right, you’re basically asking about one of the many broad psychological and physical subjects which the concept of Yin-Yang symbolize in traditional Chinese culture. While this is kind of out of my field (I study gender and sexuality propaganda during the Republic of China/early PRC), it is relevant, and I’ll try to do my best to give an understanding of how Chinese scholars, particularly Daoists, viewed sexuality and it’s relation to human health.
Now, as I said before, chinese scholars understood the practical dangers of too much sex as well. Too much sex, as you’re aware, with so many people, can lead to veneral disease and other nasty things, especially in the pre-modern medicinal world So there was a practical element to all this boring (or interesting) cosmological beliefs. So yeah, too much (unprotected) sex can make you drop dead... eventually.
Too much sex was thought of as draining on a person’s yang (that ‘light,’ or good element). If one should lose their way, they will naturally become a worse person. It is important to understand that Daoists, unlike Confucians, believed that humans must become in tune with nature, that human nature is ‘good,’ and can be tamed through simplicity in lifestyle, while Confucians believed humans must maintain rigorous ritual in order to combat their ‘evil’ nature ( you can read more here- So sex is a big part of human desire, perhaps the biggest, and it needs to be disciplined.
I'm curious as to how you arrived at this conclusion given Confucius himself never made any explicit statements on this matter, and later scholars have argued both for human nature as "good" (Mencius) and human nature as "evil" (Xunzi).
Mengzi and Xunzi disagreed about the fundamental nature (性 xing) of humanity, but both agreed that people should undergo education and training in order to realize their full moral and intellectual potential. Daoist thinkers were more likely to see this focus on "character building" as meaningless artifice and favor spontaneity, naturalness and mysticism over Confucian-style ethical instruction.