I want to add two points to the given account of the events of 1830 before going back to the observations on the current state of Belgium as mentioned in the initial question.
The two aspects I want to mention relating to the origins of the Belgian state are economics and administration.
Moreover, research by Johannes Koll and others has shown that an explicitly Belgian nationalism developed in the early 19th century, starting in the Brabant revolution of 1789 and including both Flemish (it’s a Dutch dialect) and French speaking Belgians. Which brings me to my point about narratives. The current Belgian national discourse is indeed occupied with rising feelings of alienation from the Belgian federal state and a turning to regional identities (of which there are three: Walloon, Flemish, German).
To give a sort of TLDR; the Belgians became independent because religious differences and dissatisfaction with Dutch rule sparked revolution; Belgian nationalism became a thing; it was strenhened by recognition from the Great Powers; and ratified by the French military.
In conclusion, keeping in mind the century old history of administrative unity of the region, the origins of Belgian nationalism in late 18th century and common economic, religious and nationalistic interests strong enough to support a revolution and a war of independence, the question should rather be: why is separatism currently so strong in Belgium and how did the regional identities come to dominate the national discourse?
It's possible that the reason Belgium continues to exist despite their completely split population is because of this fought-for independence; even though the majority speak Dutch (something like 60%) it's possible that the reminder of Belgium having gained independence from the Dutch in the 1830s reinforces the idea that rejoining the Netherlands isn't the best idea.
It's also important to note that the union of the previously Austrian Netherlands + Principality of Liège that were under French rule between 1795 and 1814 with the kingdom of the Netherlands never got a majority of the southern voters (a very limited body mind you). They had to count the abstentions as approval in order to claim that there was a majority and do what they planned to do at the Vienna conference.