Subroman Britain was already politically and economically weakened when the first Germanic settlers arrived. The Anglo-Saxons formed a warrior elite, whose language was more prestigious; encouraging bilingualism and eventually monolingualism among the native Britons.
This had more to do with the Anglo-Saxons having little respect for Roman culture and the weak romanization of the province of Britannia than the Anglo-Saxons having a particularly robust culture. The language of France remained vulgar Latin after the Frankish conquests because the Franks had a great degree of interaction with and respect for Roman society and civilization. They adapted to the culture of their conquered province. Further, Germanic Frankish didn't take hold because it couldn't penetrate the culture of the highly urbanized and well-established former province of Gaul. Britannia was less romanized and its conquerors, the Anglo-Saxons (originally from southern Denmark), had far less interaction and intermingling with Roman civilization than other Germanic groups like the Franks and Visigoths. This lead them to have no veneration for Rome or any reason to try to portray themselves as the rightful inheritors of Roman civilization, unlike the Franks and Visigoths in Gaul and Hispania respectively. Their indifference to Roman legitimacy and the weak institutionalization of Roman civilization in Britannia led to Anglo-Saxons being willing to and ultimately successful in reshaping British culture in their Germanic, pagan image.
Modern scholars tend to explain the language shift from Celtic/Romance to Germanic as follows: Brittonic / Romance -speakers came under the influence of small Germanic warrior elites; whose dialects (being the ones with the most political power) were considered more prestigious, promoting bilingualism. In the case of British Romance-speakers, they might have already been in the process of shifting (back) to Celtic dialects at this point. Political power seems to have been the primary determinant of the superior prestige of Germanic dialects, as the native Britons do not seem to have had much of a technological or organisational edge over the Germanic settlers. The fragmented nature of the post-Roman fiefdoms strenhened the position of Germanic dialects in Southeastern England from which they continually expanded.
With this considered, Rome had less of an impact culturally the further west and north you go in Britannia and this is why the Germanic settlements of the heaviest bastion of Vulgar Latin speakers in the South East is so important. 'Real' Latin survives all the same through the British church... at least for those educated religous folk, as will be the case for a long time afterwards Britain was cut off from the continent, the Frankish Empire would of course become the Holy Roman Empire in its first form, that is important for the continuation of Roman tradition and language. The same cant be said for the wet isles. (Edit. Refer to the comments for more info on the Franks and how their higher connections and respect for rome played a part in the upholdings and adopting of roman culture.).