To me, the moderates have completely ceded their own power to appease the zealots, and I am not sure what they have gotten for this obedience. McCarthy didnt need those twenty votes to become speaker from the Freedom Caucus. They could have been obtained by tacking towards the middle and giving things to moderate Dems. The cost would have been lower, but he didn't go that way. The moderates could have nominated their own person and iced out the far right wing. They continue to double down on the dumb because they don't have actual leadership with a vision that you can sell to the majority, and they refuse to change to get in touch with what the majority wants.
Barring Republicans who are “true believers” in what they’re doing, I think it’s largely because they’re stuck pandering to their shitty demographic. Expanding their base beyond older, white, Christian pops isn’t in the cards because they’ve effectively alienated everyone else. This base has been loyal and consistent for the Republicans for decades, so much so that they’ve hardly attempted to court other demographics. But now that this group is starting to shrink, they’re trapped trying to wring out every drop of support from them before the demographics time-bomb blows up in their face.
Trump and COVID REALLY accelerated the GOP’s downfall. COVID because it picked off chunks of the demographic which always voted GOP; and Trump because he made extremism sexy, thus scaring away anyone moderately moral/ politically wishy-washy and locking them into having to pander to absolute lunatics.
Without the "Moral Majority", the Republican Party would get maybe 10% of the vote, mostly billionaires who actually benefit from GOP policies and hardcore racists. Religion is what keeps 30-40% of the country voting Republican even in these times.
Yep. Only billionaires and hardcore racists would vote for this Republican Party if there wasn't the religious element. It would amount to 10% or less of the vote.
This is inevitable in the 2030s as the boomers will begin reaching life expectancy. Falwellism isn't popular with Millennials and Gen Z. The Republican Party will face a similar situation to what it faced between 1932 and 1952.
The wildcard is, will the US be a democracy at that point or will we have King Donald or King Ronald?