British ships carried a small detachment of the Royal Marines, compared to the size of the crew. Hood's Royal Marine detachment consisted of four officers (a major, a captain and two lieutenants), 158 men and a boy, from a total crew of 1,400. The King George V class battleships had a larger detachment, with a total of 350 men. The Royal Marines were there to provide ships with a landing party, if necessary, but this was rare during WWII. Hood's Marines fought in Norway in 1940, while the ship was undergoing a refit, while the detachment from the battleship Ramillies made an amphibious landing during the Allied invasion of Madagascar in 1942. As such, most Royal Marines would only see service aboard ship.
So it seems the Royal Marines were in many ways an extension of the Royal Navy crew (manning guns and fire control systems and such). That’s very interesting. I personally am a US Marine veteran and not only were USMC detachments on Navy vessels done away with years ago, but those detachments were never anywhere near as integrated into ship operations as the WW2 era Royal Marines were- not at least since the musket era. Although there were some parallels, such as guard duties aboard ship. But, of course, the Royal Marines and US Marines have been an apples-and-oranges comparison for a very long time.
Yes, there were quite significant differences between the Royal Marines and the USMC in the years before WWII. The Royal Marines were much more focused on sea service, on operating as part of a ship's crew. They rarely operated independently, and didn't have the role of 'colonial policing' that the USMC did. This was more the preserve of the British Army.
In this case, the Marines had several duties, both in and out of action. Where ships needed sentries - the spirit room, the boundary between officer's quarters and the men's accommodation, arms rooms and magazines outside of action - these came from the Royal Marine detachment. They might also form part of the ship's police force, helping to enforce naval law. The Marines also carried out menial work. Officers were entitled to servants, for tasks like laundry and cleaning. These servants were drawn from the Marine detachment. The Marines also provided the ships' butchers and her postal service. Large ships were provided with a Marine band for ceremonial occasions. The band also played a large role in recreation aboard ship, playing popular music for the crew.