Really fascinating stuff, great answer as always. I hadn't considered the way in which a tacky and eccentric style could foster this kind of underestimation (and how that might be useful to a would-be authoritarian).
Would it be fair to say that, even in Charlie Chaplin's time, the mustache seemed silly and antiquated (and thus was worn specifically as a comedic accessory)?
I am not all that up on Chaplin, but yes, a few false leads which ended up just on Chaplin sans Hitler does suggest that he knew it was funny, although it also had practical purpose. From an interview he gave in 1916:
The Hitler 'stache, or more neutrally the Toothbrush Mustache is one of the most recognizable aspects of his visual identity, but it wasn't all that unique. The most common explanation for the origin of Hitler's style of facial hair was that he initially adopted it at the Front in WWI. Photos of Hitler early in the war show a , which, with the introduction of gas warfare, was impracticable for a good seal of a gas mask, resulting in the shaving down to the 'Toothbrush' style he would be remembered for. To be sure, it is a story of somewhat questionable origins as Hitler himself never verified it to my knowledge, it only comes from someone who served with him, and some have claimed the change happened immediately after the war, in 1919, but in the end this is almost beside the point, as more broadly the style wasn't created by the necessity of the front whether Hitler was one who adopted it there or not. It shows up in Germany in the pre-war years - women apparently hated it and were complaining in 1907 - and Charlie Chaplin of course had already been performing with his look since before the war began. While Hitler was hardly the only man to need to keep his face better shorn during the war, the style would continue to be associated closely with Chaplin after as well, and earned the ignominious nickname of "snot brake" which speaks to how brief the fashion for it was, perhaps.
So in any case, to sum it up, while certainly some people emulated Hitler in his style, and others likely wore it already by mere coincidence, there was no massive movement for it, and the "Snot break" remained rather unfashionable even after one of its most famous wearers rose to power, a rise to which, both before and even after, it continued to garner guffaws and chuckles.