The movie made the understandable choice to ignore several facets of the literary Maturin's character for time reasons, but in the books he is understood to be a very good swordsman. At one time he and another Irish character express mild surprise that Englishmen might sometimes go a whole year without dueling anybody (although I took this as a distortion made to emphasize to each other what a badass each one was).
Maturin is Irish and Catalan. Does your answer cover a lot of Europe? Was there more of a unified dueling culture among gentlemen of various nationalities, or were there a lot of local quirks?
Sword duels were more common on the Continent, and in the early 1800s there was still a fair amount of both regional and professional (eg. civilian vs. military) variation about which sort of swords were appropriate to fight with. After the martial fervour of the Napoleonic era wound down, things began to stabilize, and a new more international order began to take hold in the world of fencing and duelling around mid-Century. But in the early part of the Century, regional "schools" of fencing could still be fairly distinctive.
First of all, spring-loaded trick weapons were not common, and certainly not in the early 19th Century. In the early 1800s, quillons were a largely obsolete feature of swords, and were only preserved as a decorative affectation. That meant they were small and stubby, if they existed at all, and nearly completely hidden behind a shell or dish guard on the duelling swords of the time. Fencing techniques of the era did not make use of quillons for defensive purposes, and it is questionable how useful they would be if deployed by surprise. I mean, if they were useful, why did they disappear? They had some utility against cuts, but in that respect they had been supplanted centuries earlier by basket-style hilts, which by the early 19th Century had evolved into the stirrup and neoclassical sabre guard.
Now, spring-loaded trick weapons were a thing in some times and places, so it's not a complete fantasy, merely anachronistic. were a thing in the early 1600s, for instance. Not exactly common, but the sort of novelty that could be purchased if you had the money to blow on that sort of thing. I would file them in the same category as sword-guns: clever gadgets that were aimed at collectors and enthusiasts for that sort of thing. In the linked case, the spring-loaded blade was intended to be useful for enhanced parrying and blade-catching performance, so perhaps that's what the author had in mind. But if so, he's about 200 years off what would have been considered appropriate for the time. The early 1600s were the "wild west" era of dueling, when there was a lot of fluidity about what constituted fair and appropriate practice, which was further confused by the probability of random street fights with swords.