I'm not sure there's really a plethora of people who are pro-monarchy, but apparently it works fine enough day to day that the people don't revolt and the US/Brits don't attempt to put a democracy there.
A reminder that radical Palestinians tried to depose the king in the 1970s, before traveling around the middle east and starting wars elsewhere with their army of Mujahideen.
You uhhh know Israel wanted to disengage from the conflict multiple times, tried to give land back to Jordan, literally pulled out of varying areas? When they did that the surrounding neighbors that tell idiots in the west that Israel is keeping the Palestinians down either barred Palestinian refugees or marked them as second class citizens without the privileges of certain professions and benefits. The other nations surrounding them want it to keep going as it means a preoccupied and weaker Israel. There’s a reason the other border states don’t want to create a porous border for the Palestinians and came up with the idea of right of return to a nation of Palestine that didn’t exist prior. It allows them to funnel weaponry, money, and propaganda to extend the conflict without taking on responsibilities. You think Egypt, Syria, Jordan, etc give a fuck about Palestinians? No. They have so much at their disposal and have had so many options to do literally any better than they did. Instead they stole the flames and throw Palestinian youth at the meat grinder.
You know Jordan could have just taken the West Bank back? But they don’t want refugees they just want the status quo. You know Egypt could VASTLY do so much more as a bordering state given the absence of security risk… except they keep the border insultingly locked and tell everyone it’s the jews. The Palestinians’ other regional neighbors do not give a flying fuck about them and are very aware of how little sense the claim to Israel’s land makes. But if it gets Palestinians to kill themselves trying to kill Israelites then that’s a win for them because it further strains Israel’s resources as well as international image.
So, sure, somehow building settlements and stimulating the Palestinian economy (though that isn't their goal, obviously) is genocide. I'm sure another 30 years of settlement building and unsustainable Palestinian population growth will fulfill the Zionist agenda... which is...?
Palestine is one of the world's fastest growing populations, you may call settlement building 'genocide', but it's almost as effective a form of genocide as charities. Settlement industries are overwhelmingly filled with Palestinians. About a third of all Palestinians work in Israeli settlements or industries.
This has been Israeli strategy for 30+ years. They want to keep the situation as is, while slowly ethnically cleansing Palestinians, and building more and more illegal settlements. This sort of worked for them in the past, the old world order, but won’t work in the currently forming new world order.