Because history is not just a dialogue with 'primary sources'. It's a dialogue between scholars. A natural result of that is accretion. Say Scholar A in 1897 says, as you wrote, "Xenophon says X, but Herodotus says Y, so we can determine its actually Z". Scholar B in 1993 revists this and argues that, in fact, Xenophon, Herodotus, and Scholar A are all wrong, and the situation is in fact W. Most scholars find this argument compelling. I, writing in 2020, am building on Scholar B's argument, and so cite her - and only her. My paper is not the place to revisit the entire argument between Xenophon and Herodotus. I'm not actually using their writings directly at all. I'm using Scholar B's interpretation of them. That is what history is about - interpretation, not the dry compiling of facts and dates.
Of course secondary sources can be wrong; they are built on argument and interpretation. But so, of course, can primary sources. And remember that the "sources" are not just written texts. Scholar B, in building her argument, surely read Xenophon and Herodotus, but she may also be drawing on archaeology, sociology, anthropology, climatology, whatever. There is much, much more to the work of history than just reading and discussing so-called "primary sources".
Again, I think textbooks are giving you a distorted view of what the purpose of history is and how it is conducted. It's not just the bland repetition of what the 'primary sources' say. If, I don't know, Josephus and Tacitus give conflicting accounts of an event, how we do interpret what the 'facts' are? Why might they give different accounts? What do the differing accounts tell us about the respective worldviews and beliefs of the two authors? Etc. This is what historians do. Actual scholarship is not just publishing an article saying 'the battle of Hastings occurred in 1066.' You.
See above. Genuinely, I think the issue here is a misunderstanding about what exactly historians do. We don't have access to pure, divine facts that we can simply repeat. We have very flawed and difficult to understand sources - written, archaeological, whatever - which are subject to interpretation. Those interpretations change over time as new data is found, theories are revised, and arguments are worked out in practice. That's what the work of history is about.