Hi! Not an expert on linguistics, but I was a classical archaeologist. I can say with certainty, there are MANY people (very nerdy, but in my experience really cool people) well versed in many dead languages. Unfortunately, that isn't enough to "resurrect" these languages. A language must be used commonly by a population (I believe by a population who uses the language as a native tongue, or at least used to), in order to not be considered "dead." That's why there is concern over languages such as Welsh "dying out." I don't necessarily think that concern is that we as a whole will lose the language, but that it won't be used anymore in Wales by those who live there. A language is considered dead when there are no more "native" speakers left. Despite our knowledge of dead languages, all of them no longer have native speakers, or a native community that uses that language.
In linguistics and linguistic anthropology, a language is considered dead when there are no more native speakers. Either by conquest or assimilation, the language is overtaken by another and is no longer spoken in daily life or taught to subsequent generations.
Attempts at resurrection of, for example, Indigenous American languages without the consent or involvement of those descended from its speakers (which has happened for academic clout, or missionaries attempting to translate the Bible) results in something akin to , shambling along with pieces missing and none of the cultural lifeblood sustaining it.
Conversely, in the success story of Modern Hebrew, you get a devoted effort to maintain cultural and religious ties that was hampered by a lack of records. So Modern Hebrew isn’t exactly the same as the ancient or liturgical versions — to continue with analogies, Hebrew is like a few trees bundled and grafted together and now growing as one. It was painstakingly crafted with the phonology, morphology, and lexicon of other related languages as needed to fill in gaps and update vocabulary.
It would be difficult to fully resurrect a language that had been previously allowed to die, either because the speakers didn’t feel it was useful anymore or outside forces drove it out of them, because language is so deeply tied to its cultural context and that would also be lost.
Resurrection, therefore, requires a sociocultural component of direct connection to the ancestral speech community.