Ok. I have no experience at all with evictions and don't even know what that process entails, other than it's a black mark on your rental record. I'm reading a web page on the eviction process as I write this but it's tough to focus. What can I possibly do to minimize the damage for myself going forward, especially as it pertains to looking for future places to live?
Alright. There is no money owed as of this second although I suppose rent for December 2021 would probably be owed if those other two are still in that apartment tomorrow.
You can work out a deal with the leasing office to pay for the month and not tell the roomates and put an eviction notice on the door that looks like it came from the office.
Also, if an eviction ends up happening, you should ask the landlord to write you a letter saying you were a good tenant and that you turned in your keys and moved out on time and that the eviction is really about your roommates. That could be useful if you end up with the eviction on your credit history and need to explain it to future prospective landlords.
The landlord will include your name in the eviction - for the landlord, it's not worth the risk that you would remain in the apartment and their eviction process might be held up.
IMO the most important thing for you to do is to do everything in your power to get your roommates to move out ASAP (and show the landlord that you're trying, because it's worth trying to get some goodwill there). Moving out by today would be ideal, but (1) if they move out within the 7-day notice period, the landlord won't have to file anything in court at all, and (2) if they move out before the eviction is granted, the landlord can agree to drop the request, which they may do if the apartment has in fact been vacated and all damages have been paid. Both of those options would result in you not having an eviction on your record.
If an eviction hearing is held, you should get a lawyer and do what you can to try to get your name off. IMO it's unlikely that you could get your name off unless the eviction is dropped completely, but it's worth trying.