This is a terrible proposal. This creates perverse incentives that can cause harm to inmates who feel that there is no way out other than to donate organs. We shouldn't create incentives like this that make people have to weigh donating organs vs being treated with dignity. This is completely unethical. I'm more in favor of community service, rehabilitation/therapy courses, or heck even working in a high demand sector in exchange for reduced sentence such as paramedic, fire fighter, rural doctor, educator in low income areas ect. I think giving people options to become productive members of the community is a far better way reducing the number of people incarcerated than organ donation.
Technically this is also already possible some places, sentencing judges can and often do reduce an inmates time for various reasons and I definitely could see one knocking a few months off someone’s sentence for donating some bone marrow. In fact I wouldn’t be surprised to find out that somewhere an inmate has received a sentence mod after making a donation. (Sentencing modification laws vary by State so I can’t speak for if it would be possible in Massachusetts).
I’m just going to begin with saying I’m against the idea but with that said I don’t think it’s as terrible an idea as some might find it, it definitely wouldn’t be a good look though. I’d consider organ donation a form of community service but I can also see some inmates only doing so under the feelings of duress.
For fuck's sake Selling your organs is illegal So these fucks decide to change a law that probably carries a GREATER sentance than what these people are facing, so they can donate organs, (to people who can afford them). Probably the law sponsors have relatives that need transplants.
The way they approve organs and blood donations is by surveying donors. Whether they are, have been intravenous drug users, sex workers, gay etc usually means they don't allow the donation to enter their pool. That's how it was laid out after all the HIV infections in the 80s, I'm not sure if they operate under the same guidelines today.
I seem to vaguely remember a horror film about receiving a murderer's heart transplant. Kind of think the health of prisoners would likely be suspect with a lot of HIV and hepatitis.