Some Frankish and Anglo-Saxon rulers requested the Vikings to agree the baptism in exchange of their concession like the payment of tribute and the approval of settlement. This was actually win-win relationship for both parties involved: The ruler could showed off their generosity and at least formal 'religious supremacy' to the Vikings in religious fictive kinship (god parent - god child) as well, and the Vikings in turn could get real wealth and prestige as successful band leader as well. It would have been also much beneficial to being (at least one-time Christian) to negotiate with their Christian neighbors as well as to trade with them (So I dared to compare the baptism as a passport above). As a result of this kind of long and repeated interactions between Europeans and Norse people during the Viking Age, more and more Norse people increasingly saw Christianity with favorable way, associated often with exotic wealth and prestige, and it is likely that some of them kept Christian practices also in their Scandinavian homeland. As I mentioned briefly in , some new ambitious ex-Viking leaders those who accumulated their wealth in Europe must also have found this new exotic religion rather useful: They tried to take the place of traditional local chieftains who had presided seasonal communal rituals for long, so Christianity and their clergy was for them a kind of auxiliary weapon to undermine their rival's political as well as religious authority.
Fundamental point of Boyer's argument is still valid (cf. Boyer 1987), I suppose: The portrait of Christ in the 12th century Scandinavian material, such as by Icelandic poet as well as clergy Einarr Skúlason (rough English translation is included in the link), indeed underlines Christ's strenh as a persona of the God, really little emphasis on Jesus' compassionate aspect.
Régis Boyer made the arguments, in Le Christ des Barbares - Le monde nordique (IXe-XIIIe s.), that Christianism found a quick enough adoption thanks to its adaptation to Scandinavian mentalities, insisting on the strenh of God rather than its love, and stressing sin as going against divine law rather than a moral infringement, painting a foreign Christ as closer to native institutional and spiritual conceptions.
The newcomer of this historiograpical trend on the significance of the possible transformation/ local adaptation of Christianity in the transition from pre-Christian beliefs to Christian one(s) in early medieval Europe has also just published in French, though its primarily focus not solely on Viking Age Scandinavia (Gautier 2017).
It is true that both aspects respectively by your Scandinavian friends and by your professor were both present in the process of 'Christianization' (I avoid to use the term 'conversion' here, as explained below) of the Scandinavians during the Viking Age, and it also heavily depends on your definition of 'the Vikings', either in their diaspora like Normandy in Northern France or North-Eastern England where they almost inevitably got in contact with their new indigenous Christian neighbors or in their homeland. I rather incline to emphasize the latter perspective, i.e. long and gradual infiltration of Christianity before the final and crucial transition phase where some violence as well as coercion could sometimes be involved as your friends told you mainly based on the later narrative sources, but not always so.