Shipping costs have returned to prepandemic normal but the price of everything staying high. I guess the inflation rate has slowed, but this sure doesn’t feel like winning.
The purpose of the rate hikes is to slow the economy. The way that happens is by making debt more expensive, so businesses that are only still running because of access to cheap debt will go under. That’s how it affects unemployment.
But, Jerome Powell said himself they need downward pressure on wages and increased unemployment. If you keep wage growth pegged to the ideal inflation of 2% wages never grow for those on the bottom rung. Wages for the lowest earners have remained effectively stagnant while C suite pay packages explode. I understand that rate hikes in stated purpose are to slow the economy by making borrowing more expensive but there are also other effects intended. Especially when you pretend the only cause of inflation is too much money and too much demand. Which from the beginning was not the case with this inflation. It was started by massive supply chain issues compounded by Russia’s invasion and profiteering. CEOs have been crowing about it in earnings calls.
The feds foundational belief is that there needs to be a threshold of unemployment that is necessary to keep wage pressure downward. I think it foolish to continue to operate as if wage hikes are the best option to slow inflation.
We can’t expect the rate hikes to work their way through the economy so quickly. Housing still has a way to go to correct. It takes time for sellers to accept the newer reality of lower prices.
Profit caps, wage maximums (?), windfall taxes, and all of the other “viable” solutions you suggested are what is called fiscal policy and it is set by the legislature. The Fed controls monetary policy. The Fed has no control over fiscal policy.
It looks like the Fed is doing its best to keep inflation under control. Of course, if they're not careful, it could spiral out of control and we'd be in trouble. Let's hope they continue to stay on top of things.