How does this compare to other colonial efforts or the period - of creation of the Dutch,Spanish or French colonial empires? Was this a common theme because of these communication difficulties, or was the structure of the British state and it's reluctance to divert offical state resources to empire building atypical of the period?
This sentiment towards the amalgamation of territories, "zones of influence", "spheres of domination", and a litany of other catch-all terms for the lands which (in one way or another) were impacted by Britain may have softened a century after Smith's writing, but it still rang fairly true. London had not set out in the late 17th century to conquer and coerce for itself the various polities, nation-states, or indigenous populaces which it eventually did, but it was often the arbiter (or to indulge some Latin, the ultima ratio) of what would become imperial rule. The government in London usually had little to no control over what the "men on the spot" did with the initial British bridgeheads, and this was both due to the long communication times (weeks if not months in the age of sail), so they left the initiative up to these men. Even the motives of the so-called "empire builders" differed vastly, whether that be Robert Clive in India (known as Clive of India), Cecil Rhodes in Africa, or the various companies which represented the British interests in the region. More often than not, economic reasons lay at the heart of expansion; though we must stress, not necessarily territorial expansion, but rather the expansion of influence and business. So where did the British government back in Westminster factor into all of this, seemingly independent and detached, empire work?
[3] - I, personally, would probably say that the average Briton didn't actively think about it, but, as in government, whenever it came up, public opinion seems to have been on the side of empire (cf. Gordon of Khartoum).
TL;DR: I suspect this is about how the British Empire wasn't planned centrally in Whitehall, but more often the result of choosing empire whenever events in the world offered a choice of expanding it, or else have British business or prestige lose out.
'It has often been said that the British acquired their empire in a fit of absent-mindedness, as consequence of automatic trends, yielding to what seemed possible and what was tempting, rather than as a result of deliber­ate policy,' is how Arendt puts it in the preface to part two. So, instead of the British Government decreeing that Britain will build an empire, and setting out to grab all the land it could, the British Empire developed more as the result of the British grabbing a piece of land here, because they could, a piece of land there, to defend a trade route or some other strategic concern, and then, one day, they woke to find that all of India and much of Africa was painted pink on the map.
This does lead me to my point; Yes, the British government, rather than actively setting out to conquer these lands, did more often find itself having to choose between taking over, or potentially letting the local population harm the interests of British business. However, they still had the choice. The UK government consistently chose, in conflicts between Britons and local populations, to subjugate the local population and expand the empire. They did not get blackout drunk and wake up the next morning holding dominion over palm and pine. They actively made the choice of empire over harm to British business or prestige, and British imperialists, even if they were not officially backed by government, had faith that, if push came to shove in the areas they were making private land grabs, London would come to their aid.