Because it was not necessarily better in the country. If you were a landowner, or even a tenant farmer with a good farm, you might indeed have a better time of it than in a factory job. But an agrarian economy is limited by the amount of arable land. If you were the third son of the farmer or tenant farmer, you would be stuck in place as a farm laborer, and would have no chance to take over the farm: and you would not be able to easily get your own in a place like England. Also, although it seems pretty grim to us now, a large city or mill town presented more possibilities to a young worker. The rural world tended to have much fewer of them... the blacksmith might only need a hammerman and the likely lad might have to wait for the smith to die before he could open his own shop, as there wouldn't be room for two smiths in the village. The great house might have a need for a maid with good sewing skills, and receiving vails from visitors might help the likely lass build up a dowry, but she really would not be able to marry that likely lad unless he could get on as a smith, and might be stuck instead in the great house, sewing sheets and patching linens.
I was rounding up....It was dawn to dusk. According to the National Park Service ( the Lowell Mills are now a historic park, and well worth a visit) the girls worked 12-14 hours a day and half a day on Saturday, so between 66 and 77 hrs. The only way they could put up with that is 1) by being young and 2) by having come from a farm and so already used to hard work.
But still: for the most part, Cabot's mills and US factories in general did not offer a real career- a factory job still tended to be hard and dangerous ( 80 hour work weeks, and tuberculosis easily spread among the Lowell loom operators). It's notable that in all the many optimistic rags-to-riches novels of Horatio Alger, none of his protagonists gets ahead working in a factory. You do wonder why more workers didn't stay away from them.
Not all workers meekly moved to the cities though. Some took more direct action, and demanded higher wages. For example, In 1830 letters signed "Swing" began to threaten landowners who underpaid their workers, like this;.