Since Lucas included it in Star Wars I'm inclined to suspect that the general public at least had the idea that computers could talk to each other but its possible they thought of it as a futuristic fantasy rather than a contemporary reality.
Something I'll throw in here is that the idea of a computer, including a computer network (or something of the sort), had been included in science fiction literature for at least a few decades before Star Wars, and even before computers existed.
All told, the historical background for how computers work in Star Wars is one part computer networking as we think of it and one part terminal/mainframe systems. R2 himself is both a microcomputer (that is a computer small enough to move between rooms) and a terminal. The networking we see in Star Wars reflects some of the concepts we see in science journals from the time and therefore includes terminals, microcomputers, mainframe computers and computer networks but lacks explicit mention of more cutting edge ideas such as internetworking.
Computers were being networked experimentally as far back as the 1950's, and by the 1960's a variety of approaches to networking were in use connecting computers across several discrete networks.
What's interesting is that if you look at contemporary sources from the early 1970s, the concept of using a computer network as a general-purpose communication device was still somewhat new in practice. While we do data storage/lookup, file sharing, and real time communication (like email and chat) in the same breath nowadays, that was certainly not the case with ARPANET or any of the smaller commercial networks, and the idea of using a network like ARPANET for normal communications (like we use the Internet nowadays) was not widely accepted when the technology was emerging. It was sometimes considered gauche or outright inappropriate to use it for marketing purposes or casual, personal communication. But a large, government network like the Galactic Empire computer system was right in line with how the technology was being used by real governments and companies in the 1970s, just at a much greater scale than was practically possible at the time.