Respectfully, the premise of the question assumes a degree of control, power, and right over Hong Kong and the New Territories which the United Kingdom did not have. If anything, the 50-year transition was a concession from the PRC, not the UK.
It is first important to understand the basis of the UK claim to Hong Kong. The initial cessions, which are enshrined in a set of nineteenth-century treaties from the post-opium war period, covered only the island of Hong Kong (1842) and parts of Kowloon Peninsula (1860). The third region of Hong Kong, called the New Territories, was leased to the British in 1898 for 99 years. When folks from the west think about Hong Kong the city, they're mostly thinking of the Island and Kowloon, which is where Britain's claim was the strongest. But the New Territories contained a substantial amount of Hong Kong's core infrastructure, and so the expiration of the lease in 1997 gave China quite a bit of leverage.
A critical matter of interpretation is the land lease issue: if, indeed, the Hong Kong Government as an autonomous entity would cease to exist after 2047, then it would not be able to issue land leases that extend beyond that point. However, it has consistently adopted a policy of 50-year leases irrespective of any 2047 cutoff. In other words, from an interpretation standpoint, the sole detailed provision in the Basic Law that references a 50-year cutoff has been understood to apply only to a specific set of pre-handover British-issued leases, and not to fundamentally set an expiry date on the entire Hong Kong governmental structure. Indeed, the existence of any reference to 2047 at all is due to a Chinese concession as part of the 1984 Joint Declaration to allow the British to issue leases extending past the handover with a 50-year cap, not a reference to Hong Kong's future governmental structure and status.
The significance of this is that there almost certainly was no presumption among the British negotiators that Hong Kong's political autonomy would be maintained until 2047 and no further. Rather, the deal that was signed on to guaranteed said autonomy indefinitely, and it was only British land leases that could not be maintained past 2047. That the popular interpretation is that the entire deal expires in 2047 is a different matter entirely, but it doesn't reflect the underlying legal thinking.