As for the costs you break down you say you are out tools clothes and misc items, and still owe on the tow. It sounds like you left your vehicle there and refused to pay the tow? If that's the case they are likely charging storage and youd have a hard time recovering anything for tools and clothes and such that once you recover your vehicle will be returned to you. Even more so had you paid the tow fee they wouldve been with you.
You needed to pay the $195 tow charge and go from there. The snow caused the officer in his professional judgement to see a need to clear the road of any abandoned vehicle.
When the highway is covered in snow people lose control of their vehicles. This is particularly true at night, when they're tired and its cold enough for ice to spontaneously form on the road. It's not their fault that they lose control of their car, its just a consequence of the way that the world that we live in works.
Even if you could go to court and prove that your car wasn't over the line you'd lose because the officer felt it wasn't safe to leave your car there under those conditions and he has the sole discretion to make that determination.
You're going to have a very hard time finding anyone who takes your position seriously, and I think its fair to say that not a single judge in this country would do so. If you're curious as to the legality of what happened, KS Stat ยง 8-1102(a)(1) explicitly authorizes the police to have your vehicle towed under the circumstances that you have described.
You're taking what the officer said as though it was some hard factual statement and if you can just prove him wrong then the tow was wrongful. But you're also missing the point - the officer thought the car was over the line. Given that your position is that the line couldn't be seen because of the snow, he doesn't have to be right about where your car was relative to it. All he has to be right about is that your car was close enough to the highway to pose a danger to other people. If it was close enough to the road that he thought it was over the line then that's it, his thinking that its over the line is enough to tow you.