Did the original roommate pay part of the security deposit? It also might be tricky managing the new roommate’s deposit. It doesn’t look like CO is too restrictive, but you might consider not charging a deposit to the new tenant.
The lease wasn't broken, you're in the apartment and paying the full rent, you're just changing one of the two tenants on the lease. He has no damages as far as I can tell from your post.
The construction material and glass on the ground again is a separate issue and again is irrelevant to the issue of the deposit, you should have told him to clean it up.
Here's the deal, you saw the condition of the apartment however you still moved in so that's irrelevant at this point. Unless he attempts to withhold your deposit for damages or cleaning then it may become relivant.
Stop calling him and only respond in writing going forward. Tell him in writing that you have made him whole and he has no damages because the lease wasn't broken and that you don't agree to the charges for a lease break. Reiterate in writing that if he attempts to withhold your deposit you'll sue him in small claims court and prove that he has no monitary damages.
You should assume that this LL is going to be trying to claim that none of your deposit can be returned. They will come up with BS reasons. Plan to have to go to small claims court to get the deposit back.
Regarding the construction - if you can’t use part of the home because the LL didn’t make it ready? They shouldn’t even be renting out the home. Double check if permits were pulled, if they needed to be. If the contractor doesn’t clean up after themselves, make sure to complain about that as well. You are supposed to be supplied with a home that is MOVE IN READY at the time you get the keys. You are not supposed to have to clean it, repair things, etc. you contracted for a home that was to be move in ready.
Also, since the other person signed the lease, then decided not to move in at the last minute, you can go after them in small claims court for the half of the rent that they didn’t pay until you do get a new roommate to cover the other half the costs. Again, that jointly and severally phrase applies. You are each individually and together responsible for the rent. So if you paid all of August and Sept and it took you until Oct to get a roommate you could live with, the original roommate would owe you half of Aug and Sept.