What was Germany's role in the 1878 congress of Berlin ? I would assume that Germany not favoring Russia's progress in the Blakans over the Austro-hungarian friendship must have soured a bit the relations between the two empires.
For a time, there was indeed a Russo-German Alliance\\,\\ or, to be more specific, the Dreikaiserbund (League of the Three Emperors) not only between Russia and Germany, but also with Austria-Hungary. This formal alliance came into being in 1881, and it was the brainchild of that master of realpolitik, Otto von Bismarck. Bismarck knew all too well that if he wished to maintain Germany's position in Central Europe and keep the balance of peace (which was always sketchy during that time period, especially with constant flare-ups over the Balkans), he needed to secure the goodwill of Tsar Alexander III. The Tsar for his part, trusted Bismarck, for the Iron Chancellor had no reason to go against Russian claims of influence in the Baltic. To him, the Balkans were a constant thorn in the side of European peace, and he personally did not wish to drag Germany into a scuffle with Russia over this matter. In fact, Alexander III and his advisers believed that Germany could actually be relied upon to oppose Austro-Hungarian expansionism in the Balkans, for the Habsburg monarchy was often the archrival "Great Power" to the Romanov dynasty when it came to Eastern Europe. Bismarck made constant reassurances to Alexander III that despite the existence of the Triple Alliance (between Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Italy), Russia would not be the target or an obstacle in any of their foreign policies. He did so by continually renewing the Dreikaiserbund, with Article 2 of the Reinsurance Treaty of 1887 going so far as to state that:
\[3\]: Sourced from Fürst Bülows Reden nebst urkundlichen Beiträgen zu seiner Politik. Mit Erlaubnis des Reichskanzlers gesammelt und herausgegeben von Johannes Penzler. I. Band 1897–1903. Berlin: Georg Reimer, 1907. p. 6-8. (Though easily found in any online publications or academic texts regarding the German Imperialist Policy).