I don't own a gun, and I'm an Eastern city 'liberal', but even I can see our laws are horseshit with the US gun warehouse next-door, and our customs officers directed to harass for duties, not security.
'Red herring': most crime guns are smuggled from the US, police believe. It'd help if the feds kept stats, but they won't. This is not a domestic gun problem: registered, or 3D printed.
3d printing is a terrible tool for making a gun. My 80 year old lathe is much better suited to the task. (Well atleast the barrel and a few other critical parts). Most any machine shop will have the tools and equipment to make guns. It won't really be a cheap as guns smuggled in from the US. But the point is it can be done and be totally under the radar. 3d printing a gun is really a bad joke. It can be done but it won't be anywhere as good as a properly machined gun. There are 3d printing processes that could possibly make a good gun, but they are very expensive processes. CNC machining is far cheaper.
Prohibition just drives stuff underground where there is no oversight or even incentive to try to do the right thing. "I'm already screwed if I get caught with this gun, so why would I keep it unloaded and locked up.".
Ah yes, true. It does depend on what country you live in as to how much of an impact this stuff has. In my country, pretty much everything is a controlled item (to my understanding, pretty much all parts of the weapon are controlled).
However, a properly functioning, accurate and reliable gun needs tight tolerances and some items which just can't be printed (like a rifled barrel), plus it will need to be metal in the critical areas.
It;'s always been possible for amateur gunsmiths to make their own firearms, but it requires a certain skill level in machining to do, pre 1980s most of your firearms required some level of hand fitting.
As it is, a plastic firearm might be able to function for a couple of rounds using small cartridges, or a bit longer if you've got some basic metal parts included.