No, I was 5 working days late. I understand i am responsible for paying the $300 fee + paying the rest of my original lease (original lease was from july 2020- june 2021) due to the < 60 days notice but Im having a hard time understanding why I am extending to july.
thank you for that advice. I will definitely make a clear memo in my last payment stating that I am leaving and no other payment will be sent. I am also planning on paying the addition $300 fee for the improper notice as a way to prove that I am trying my best to be in accordance with my original lease.
In terms of other questions you asked here, I would show them the lease and ask why they are expecting you to pay July when the lease states failure to give proper notice is $300 plus the rest of the lease.
While I agree with you that the lease says improper termination results in paying up the rest of your lease (through June) and then just $300, in your landlord's mind your lease is really up July 31 since it automatically renewed because your terminiation notice was improper.
Because the lease extended to a month to month lease, when you fail to give 60 days notice the lease is extended 60 days from when you DO give proper notice. You were already paying for June, but because your lease terms require 60 days notice, you have to stay (or not stay) for 60 days from when you give notice. Meaning your lease ends in July now, not June, and that you have to pay for the time that additional month.
I'd imagine your landlords argument is that the lease requires two months notice, and that notice takes effect the end of the month notice is given. And that two months goes into July. So at most, I'd say you're on the book for rent through July 8th. Depending on the amount of additional rent would be the deciding factor for me as to how hard I pushed on this.
You could look for any tenant's rights or advocate groups in your area if you'd like an actual person to review the lease and give you more solid advice.
thank you for the advice, I’ll look into tenant advocate groups for help. i’ll also push a little harder on the prorated july rent (only to the 8th) if they are insistent on their 60 day rule.