2. Ukraine doesn't differentiate between deaths and casualties in reporting, and doesn't clarify when asked. It reports numbers of "liquidated" enemy troops without explaining what that means. The US military, for example, also estimates around 100,000 Russian casualties, . Many wounded troops return to duty: killed and permanently crippled casualties are usually the minority in total casualties.
Russia is absolutely running out of troops, that's why they're declaring drafts and conscripting prisoners, but this particular news story is mixing up "killed" and "casualty": they're not the same.
1. This data is provided by the Ukrainian military, and is thus an estimate, probably a somewhat generous one as it's common in all wars to over-estimate enemy death tolls (see the difference in reported aircraft kills on both sides in WW2 for example).
While I agree the military deaths on Ukraine's side are probably higher than 15k, I wholeheartedly believe they're significantly less than the Russian death toll. The unfortunate part is the civilian death toll for Ukraine.
Difference being 1-5 shell highly accurate HIMAR barrage is going to probably have a higher death toll than 100 inaccurate pot shot shellings by Russia. What's more Ukraine is trained by and using western tactics which are very effective at minimizing casualties. Just look at the US death toll in all their middle eastern wars combined over the past 20 years.
Are you really trying to compare the US wars to this. We had the skies to ourselves. They didn’t have to worry about sams or enemy fighters. We bombed the shit out of the enemy from the sky. They had no artillery. Of course we barely had any casualties.
When this is over and the truth comes out you will see the pounding the Ukrainians troops have taken.
Both true but the sheer volume of rockets, mortars, and artillery will make up for any inaccuracy. For every 1 shell the Ukrainians send over Russia sends back at least 10.
I believe Russia has lost 93k but no way Ukraine has only lost 15k. That number has to be at least 3 to 4 times more. Russia has been pounding the Ukrainian lines for months. They damn near killed that many civilians.
Support troops are getting killed as well. Who do you think is doing the logistics, driving trucks, setting up command posts, firing artillery? Tanks and aircraft are support as well.