Edit: also, ordering a BPO may be worth the cost if your loan has matured past 2 years. $105 - $150, rather than monthly pmi Costs that can add up to well over that.
Call them when closer to 80%, just with that phone call you may be eligible for it to be removed without a broker priced opinion. Really dependant on investor though. It will automatically drop at 79% but eligibility for cancellation could be above 80%. Source, I work for your mortgage servicer.
Not a lawyer, but ex mortgage broker here. You will likely have to wait 6 months or longer before you can get an appraisal or refinance and have the PMI removed. The term in your contract that you need to ask about is "seasoning". The first 6 months - 2 years of any existing mortgage will be locked into the purchase price and you will finally be able to make changes once it has been seasoned. Six months of seasoning will likely be the requirement for any new mortgage company you try to refinance with since they are looking to avoid any shady deals where someone gets a sweetheart deal and immediately makes changes to their mortgage to pull cash out etc.
Generally speaking, someone who intends to hold on to the mortgage to its maturity (forever-home scenario), is better off aggressively "buying down" the rate with points. Someone who totally intends to refinance in the first year is better off doing the very opposite.
1) Do you really have to go through the builder's mortgage company, or are you free to shop around and find a better deal?
2) Do they already know who will be servicing the loan once it is closed? Some services allow dropping the PMI based on re-appraisal of the property, some do not allow that and PMI stays until you reach 80% of equity against the original LTV. It might be best to find a deal where you know the servicer will allow you to re-appraise and drop PMI, so that you don't have to refinance.
But I want to point out, you don’t always need to refinance when you want to drop PMI. A few months back we just called our mortgage company and asked if we could reappraise to get PMI dropped. They agreed. We paid the $300 appraiser fee and the PMI was dropped. Super easy.