Again I think the issue is that, especially in European history, you can talk about imperialism and colonialism pretty easily, outside of the Sami it gets harder to talk about "indigenous" peoples. Not impossible, but harder. And the reason I say tread with caution is that to a certain extent any European national identity has historically played on ideas of ethno-genesis to claim something like being indigenous to a claimed territory (although historically the term used was "autochthonous").
There are big problems when trying to equate modern European national identities with concepts of indigeneity. While few serious historians would dispute that there are, at least, some very real parallels between imperial colonization and history of Ireland from the mid-16th century on, it gets tricky when we try to say that the people on the receiving end were "indigenous" Irish.
I absolutely think colonialism is an applicable framework for Irish history. But I don't think it necessarily follows that "indigenous" is the best frame for Irish identity. Irish is as much the identity of a modern nation state, and this doesn't really synch up well with how the term is used, even though there is no universally-accepted definition of " indigenous".
If I'm understanding right, "indigenous" is part of the "indigenous/colonizer" pair with respect to modern state borders, and firstness doesn't get into it much.
"Indigenous" tends to be applied to peoples who are weaker in their relation to modern states than other groups. So e.g. the forestfinns were not really more powerful than the people living in the areas they moved to, if anything they were probably economically weaker. Similarly the majority Finnish speakers today aren't in a weaker position compared to the state, nor were they really back in medieval times, if we just look at the classes. I.e. a Swedish speaking peasant was not much differently treated than a Finnish speaking one. So neither group really fits into the idea of indigenous peoples.
Because of this, the ILO-169 also includes a concept of "Tribal peoples", which have the same rights as "indigenous peoples". They are defined as (art. 1(a)): "Tribal peoples in independent countries whose social, cultural and economic conditions distinguish them from other sections of the national community, and whose status is regulated wholly or partially by their own customs or traditions or by special laws or regulations".
So, legally, indigenous rights are reserved for groups that, as the African Commission states: (1) occupies a specific territory; (2) are culturally distinct; (3) identify as, and are recognised as, a distinct group, and; (4) have an experience of marginalisation or similar.
The term indigenous is legally relevant, but it's worth noting that most of the rights of indigenous peoples are either general minority rights, or general individual rights.
But there are occasions where a definition of indigenous people (or "people") is the qualifier of certain rights. Indigenous people specifically is used in the ILO-169, and in the non-binding UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples, covering a wide array of rights both to autonomy, property and more.
Lastly it's worth mentioning that non-indigenous peoples (of course) also have a right to self-determination, and courts have recognised that for groups ranging from the Québécois to the English-speaking Cameroons. Being defined as "indigenous" is important, but not the legal be all end all.
All peoples that fit either of those definitions can be called indigenous. Alternatively, indigenous can be used more narrowly to mean only those that qualify by the latter definition. If so, one can use the term "tribal" (or some other word, given that tribal can have negative connotations) for the other people that qualify by the first definition but not the latter.