Part of that is a lot of churches are running programs that the government should be but doesn’t. Most food banks I’ve seen in the UK for example are religious organisations. Be that a church, mosque or synagogue.
It is not about religion or orthodox church. There are two main orthodox churches in Ukraine. Moscow branch is ruled by Gundyaev (Patriarch Kirill of Moscow), who is an KGB agent. He is a religios propaganda machine for Putin and in top 100 richest Russians.
It was long known that Moscow branch that is in direct subordinate of Gundyaev is nothing more than a FSB branch. But the topic was too sensitive. Now it is time to show who is with Ukraine and its people and who is pro Putins tyranny. When civilians getting killed by russian troops they want kgb agents that pretend to be priests to get the hell out of Ukraine.
If one were to be pro Ukrainian in Russia, they would have been found dead with their hands tied behind them and shot themselves in the back of their heads.
It’s not like Ukraine is under some kind of existential threat from one of the largest armies in the world and has its citizens tortured, raped, killed by that army. And it’s not like Ukraine needs to protect itself from a network of that country’s spies which include people who got dual citizenship. It’s almost like this case is nothing like Iranian authoritarian laws meant to repress its citizens but rather on the contrary- a defense mechanism to protect the citizens from above mentioned tortures, rapes and murder.
It’s very simple. Ukraine does not allow dual citizenship. This is smart considering the unique level of danger Ukraine is in. If somebody wants to get another country’s citizenship, they can, but then must forfeit their Ukrainian citizenship. These priests didn’t do that, thus breaking the law. Investigation by the Security Service identified this and Zelenskyy did what these priests should have done themselves when they acquired Russian citizenship. There is no problem here, no ethical violation, no violation of human rights principles.