I think I wasn't quite clear in my point. What I meant to say is that there is a difference between a left-wing ideology and pushing popular policies that happen to be left wing. I would argue that even early on the Nazis did not have a left-wing ideology, they just threw in some points that appealed to the masses, which they discarded once they got anywhere near power.
The 25 Points were the official Nazi Party ideology, though downplayed in later years. They match up with statements made by Anton Drexler, Hitler, and other early National Socialists. They advocated these positions for years: it's the heart of their early building program that sees them rise to the national stage. We simply cannot detach the inconvenient socialist portions (and they are only portions) from the rest and assume they were only there to get votes: there's no evidence that Hitler placed them there as a cynical ploy without believing in them at all.
Essentially, the only way to accept the NSDAP as a socialist party is to 100% buy into the leftist elements of the 1920 manifesto, ignore the rest of it, and ignore its eventual implementation 13 years later that jettisons a bunch of the leftist elements when the Nazis come to power. Then you have to take a peculiarly American conservative view that any major involvement by government in the welfare of its citizens makes a party a left-wing party (regardless of what else they say or do). The Nazis certainly involved themselves in this way, with things like mass welfare, universal employment, but overall this is an unquestioned (and unjustified) definition. Lastly, you must ignore every part of the Nazis' "death to Marxism" rhetoric and follow-on actions, its unsocialist obsession with race and nationalism, its capitalist economic structures, and its alliances with the traditional conservative powers to do so. It's a curiously "one-drop" view of political ideology, where any leftism means 100% leftism, no matter how thin the leftist elements or how strong the right-wing ones.
I must respectfully disagree with Mr. flesh-eating-turtle when he says that it was in no way a left-wing ideology: I think it's pretty clear it had left-wing elements, at least early on, which makes perfect sense, as it's fundamentally a reaction to the incredible popularity and electoral and political success of socialism. One of the great efforts made by early Nazi propaganda was the attempt to claim the popular parts of socialism / communism while leaving behind its baggage (as far as right wingers saw things): pacifism, and the elimination of all private property and enterprise. Overall, National Socialism used some of the language of socialism and, at least initially, pursued some socialist goals (alongside right wing beliefs), but these were not its core beliefs.
They did (by far) not have any more correlation with Socialism than they did with existing Right-Wing organisations and ideologies like Monarchism or Conservatism so it would be misleading to point out cherry picked examples of supposedly "Socialist" policies ignoring the general state of affairs where they went the other direction.