NAL, but in my state around the age of 12 they start to consider whether a child is capable of speaking for themselves on custody. This is a general rule and it's up to the judge whether they think a child's opinion is relevant. There are different rules state to state too but I think this type of thinking is pretty common.
My parents divorced when I was young, too young for the courts to listen to my opinion, but when I was 12 or 13 my dad was able to file for custody and I know it helped that I said I wanted to live with him. My mom was unstable at the time but it was hard to prove.
At 15, a judge might ask you why you want to live with your mom and they will want to see that it's actually in your best interest. Again, it's a general "rule" that family/divorce courts always try to put a child's best interest first, so they will probably try to look at other factors too.
You're old enough, in MD, to have your wishes considered - so to me the best option would be to encourage mom to take this back to court and preemptively change the custody/visitation schedule. If this were me, I'd document his behavior (factually, "he said x" "he did y").
Do you know what the parenting plan established and whether you're violating it? Do you know what their custody arrangement is?
If there is a custody agreement, your dad can enforce it. Even if you don’t want to go. You are still a minor and don’t have a legal say because you are supposed to follow the order too. He can go back to court as well and ask the Judge for full custody. That doesn’t mean he will get it and doesn’t mean you can’t tell the judge what you want but he has that right. You haven’t given many specifics as to what he has done. If you have good strong evidence of this then he may not win but if it’s all just stuff you claim without texts or recordings or records then he might. Fair warning—You not going actually makes your mom look compliant in not following the judge’s order and judges don’t like that so just keep that in mind.