Follow-up question: is the language of the King James Bible the spoken vernacular of the time period when it was translated, or was it very formal then too?
The "thees", "thous", and other antique word choices, are a product of the King James Version of the Bible, an English translation made in the 1600s. The Hebrew/Greek could just as easily be translated using modern English words.
My experience in translating Koinē in general is that it’s very easy, relative to like Homeric Greek. The word choice is not as arcane, the word order is not all over the place (because you can do that in Greek and generally in case-based languages), and a number of additional bits like that. Basically, it felt like English (L1 English speaker) much more than Homeric Greek.
So then I feel like we wrap up with translation. If you’ve ever read the King James translation, it’s not as accurate of a translation as we’d use today perhaps. This is because it was wrapped up in the courtly language of the time for a courtly literate audience. Every translation is going to be a product of the people that translate it and their linguistic context. Language tends to become more irregular and less structured over time. Two great examples are Greek and English. Greek used to have a Dual form that was specifically for talking about 2 things. That’s very far gone. The number of cases used in nouns today in Greek is different than what it was in Homeric Greek or classical, and the prepositions they’re used with has changed as well. Both are less than latin which also had the ablative. The number of verb tenses actively used in conversation is also lesser, with the aorist consuming several different past tenses in practice. The practice of perfect passive participles is not as common, etc. So language changes and largely simplifies over time. (EDIT: as a commenter below points out, this is over generalized and applies specifically to Indo-European languages, namely Greek and English. Languages can gain structure over time and lose both.).
2. Related to the above would memorisation be a factor? Repetition and song for that matter being a good to way to remember.