Ruth Rogaski, 'Knowing a Sentient Mountain: Space, science, and the sacred in ascents of Mount Paektu/Changbai', Modern Asian Studies 52:2 (2018).
The Kangxi Emperor had, beginning in 1677, instituted ritual sacrifices to the mountains, and during his second tour of the northeast in 1682, he and his retinue performed the series of three kneelings and nine prostrations (the 'kowtow') in the direction of the mountains while detouring to Girin Ula (modern day Jilin Shi), which was actually some 230km to the northeast. From 1677 onward, the mountains were described as zuzong faxiang zhongdi 祖宗發祥重地 ('the momentous ancestral birthplace'), cementing their integral place in the Aisin Gioro ideological space. But this went beyond just applying to the Aisin Gioro clan. For one, Inner Asian tribal formations like the Manchus tended to recognise a single common ancestor, irrespective of actual genealogy, so for instance the Yongzheng Emperor in 1728 declared that the Manchus were all the descendants of Nurgaci, Hong Taiji, and the Shunzhi Emperor. As such, in theory the Aisin Gioro were the progenitor tribe for the Manchu people, and because the Changbai/Golmin Šanggiyan Mountains were the birthplace of the Aisin Gioro's legendary ancestors, they were by extension the birthplace of all Manchus.
Eventually, the Jurchen people “evolved” into Manchu people when Qing dynasty’s founding emperor Aisin Gioro Hong Taiji renamed his people, one of the three major groups of Jurchen, the Manchu. The worship and respect for the Baekdu Mountain thus carried over for all the Manchu people, but the Aisin Gioro clan claimed to have even closer ties with the mountain - my hypothesis is it’s one of the myths to make their ruling legitimate, similar to how historical Chinese rulers would claim to be the Son of Heaven. The mythical figure of Jurchen chieftain Bukuri Yongson linked Nurhaci, Hong Taiji’s father and founder of the Later Jin dynasty, to the Jurchen chiefs and thus to the rulers of Jin dynasty, giving Later Jin the kind of continuity and legitimacy it needed to unite the Tungusian people into one ethnicity and later mold them into the Manchu people. I would conjecture that it was because the Baekdu Mountain was sacred to all Manchu (and Jurchen, before they were Manchu), that the Aisin Gioro clan claimed their ancestor was conceived near it.
At any rate, the historical/mythological record is that the pre-Manchu Jurchen people originated from the Baekdu Mountain.
I am of Manchu heritage through my paternal grandfather who was born and raised in the same province as Baekdu Mountain, about five hours from it. I’ve been to Baekdu Mountain but it’s indeed billed more as an ethnic Korean (North Korean & Chinese with Korean heritage) heritage site at the moment, with people performing Korean ethnic dances and selling Korean ethnic food at every corner in the area. Perhaps because ethnic Koreans in the area still quite often speak Korean, while Manchus don’t have much of an ethnic identity and none of us speak Manchu (about a dozen speakers left in the world) or wear traditional Manchu clothing (considered somewhat not-ok in China compared to other ethnic clothing or historical Han clothing) etc.
But first, regarding the Korean ethnicity specifically, a large Korean ethnic minority lives near the Changbai mountain on the Chinese side, in the region called Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture, and lots of people from the area had ancestors/relatives who crossed the border from Korea during Korean War. The area near the mountain in general had and still have many Korean people living there, it’s just some of these ethnically Korean people are nationally Korean, and some are nationally Chinese (assimilated into Chinese culture for generations, self-identify as Chinese, hold Chinese citizenship) even if they are fully ethnically Korean - thus it doesn’t really make sense for Korean nationals to demand the mountain as those Chinese nationals with Korean ethnicity would have just as much an ancestral claim. So, It’s not even a Korean vs Chinese or Korean vs Manchu issue; the national border never quite matched ethnic lines to begin with.
Even if the day should somehow come that Manchuria claims independence from China and forms its own nation, the Koreans would still be ‘stealing’ the mountain from the Manchus if they reclaim it. The only thing that would change would be that they would be stealing from Manchuria instead of China if Manchuria is independent.