I would imagine that the event that inspired King to recommend Thich Hanh for the prize might have been his 1965 Call for Peace statement and the subsequent refusal of entry on his return trip to Vietnam in 1966. Though I would imagine that the SYSS activities that Thich Hanh had continually engaged in very likely already caught the attention of King leading to their meeting in 1966. I think it was after this where we see a shift in Kings attitude towards then Vietnam war as well considering that he starts denouncing the Vietnam War in 1967 and in the same year recommended Thich Hanh for the Nobel prize. Also I think it’s important to note that Kings nomination at the time was rather controversial because it violated Nobel protocol and I think they actually skipped the peace prize that year. Combined with antipathy towards then Vietnam war and the rather substantial amount of humanitarian and pacifist work Thich Hanh had already did in 1967 and Kings nomination makes a bit more sense I think.
What did he do, Gandhi-esque or otherwise, to earn so much recognition as an activist for peace during the Vietnam War?
Is there any good English-language work that covers the Korean War from the Korean Perspective? I’ve read a few good ones that primarily focus on American/Soviet relations, MacArthur’s conflict with Truman, and the negotiations with the North Koreans/Chinese. I’m really curious about the decisions Syngman Rhee had to make, the experience of Korean (South, but North would be interesting, too) soldiers, and possibly the decisions that Korean commanders had to work with.
I can't quite remember where I read this (possibly in Rees' text) but I've read that the Americans kept the South Korean military stunted and undersupplied on purpose: to make sure that Syngman Rhee couldn't do something reckless or take the situation out of US control.
English-language work addressing the Korean War from the Korean perspective: I'm reluctant to wade too much into this as the war itself isn't my focus, but these are sadly lacking. It's all too clear why the Korean conflict is so frequently referred to as the "forgotten war" in American scholarship. However, I think Paik Sun Yup's memoir From Pusan to Panmunjon is closest to what you're looking for, and happily it is still available (it's a little unnerving how many pre-21st century books on the war are out of print).