Isn't ASEAN striving to remain non-aligned? So it's member countries can do whatever they want without bothering about what outside players think of them.
You are looking at this from a Western perspective. ASEAN is created to preserve economic, political and military sovereignty against potential threats from ALL external countries, not just China. ASEAN just wants to be able to do its own things.
You are talking about the heavily under developed parts of ASEAN. The developed/ developing ones (Singapore, Philippines, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam) have their grievances with China.
Regarding China, at least 4 ASEAN members (Vietnam, Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei) have disputes with China regarding their 9-dash line.
The ASEAN is an assosciation created to strenh ties between those countries in an attempt to defend themselves from a mutual threat aka China. It is being strenhed to help counter Chinese influence in their region and develop collaboration between those countries that have concerns about the increasing militiary threat of China and their increasing claims of territory in South China Sea and areas around those nations.
Additionally, China is beginning to make territorial claims against their neighbors, which is a threat to all nations bordering China.
The threat China poses to these nations by taking control of that Sea and restricting trade, fishing, and movement of people is probably the most major concern of the assosciation.
The greatest concern to ASEAN nations at the moment is China and it's expansion especially in the water ways around these countries.
I mean stop simping for China, it's very clear what ASEAN's most pressing issue is at the moment. ASEAN and it's partners have a right to be concerned when a country within that group does not disclose details regarding miltiary activity with the nation that is the cause of their greatest current issue.
Disclosing their activities with China is a big red flag in terms of trust between the nations within ASEAN and those looking to partner with it especially given that China is the biggest concern at the moment.