As a potential follow up question: When considering the idea of nationalism as it pertains to the sixteenth-century nation-state, what separates sixteenth-century nationalism from the nationalism of today, or from that of the twentieth century? Does it relate to the view of an internal national identity vs an outward, colonial view of nation and expansion, or national protectionism?
"Nationalism" strikes me as a poor starting point for this discussion, for two reasons: (1) its meaning is overdetermined; and (2) nations are political fictions created by some combination of states and people, and so starting from the nation presupposes the distinction your question points to. Nevrtheless, most historians argue that modern political nationalism didn't take hold until the 19th century. That is not universal, however. Liah Greenfeld argues that nationalism originated in 15th century England, while other scholars like Susan Reynolds argue it's earlier still. These discussions are useful because they highlight different aspects of political organization that have endured or changed over time. However, when most people say "nationalism," they would likely emphasize its cultural rather than political dimensions.
Nationalism of today usually has nation as its base, sometimes religion can also be involved, yes, but Russian identity now is very different from Russian identity in 16th century, for example: it was probably more open to people integrating into society (but only if they paid considerable price).
Change in Russian psychology is generally considered to start occuring after the Time of Troubles and with the forming of Russia's New Model Army (1630s-1640s), primarily because of influence from European mercenaries (although it must be noted that there always have been a lot of foreigners in Russia up to this point - they just didn't really blend into society). More complete incorporation of Russia into inner European politics happened during reign of Peter I, although French-reminiscing courtly customs would become norm only later in 18th century. Before this, major inspiration for Russia came in the form of Netherlands - that's where Peter I was studying the navy.