The united Kingdom of Israel only existed for a little more than a hundred years (from 1047-930 BCE), until it split into two separate kingdoms: the southern Kingdom of Judah (which included Jerusalem) and the northern Kingdom of Israel (which the Bible sometimes refers to as "Samaria," presumably to avoid confusion). The Kingdom of Judah was the smaller of the two, and included the territories of the tribes of Judah and Benjamin. There were Levites in the Kingdom of Judah too, but the tribe of Levy was more of a priestly caste than a tribe with territory. The later Kingdom of Israel (which I'm going to call "Samaria" so we don't get confused) included the territory of the other ten tribes (Reuben, Menasseh, Ephraim, etc.). Samaria was conquered by the Neo-Assyrian Empire around 722 BCE.
The Kingdom of Judah continued to exist until around 587 BCE when it was conquered by the Babylonian king Nebuchanezzar. The subsequent "Bablyonian Exile" was the period in which at least some of the inhabitants of the Kingdom of Judah were taken to Babylon as captives following Nebuchanezzars conquest (likely this was mainly the Jewish inhabitants of the city of Jerusalem).
They likely migrated south and joined the kingdom of Judah, which would explain why Judah's population exploded during Assyrian vassalage. There are also Bible verses like Ezra 6:17 that make reference to all 12 tribes of Israel during that time period, suggesting that all 12 were present in Judah.
But to answer your question, the inhabitants of the Kingdom of Judah that were supposedly returned to their homeland by Cyrus the Great were from three tribes: Judah, Benjamin, and Levy. The Levitical priesthood was passed down patrilineally, and it was considered particularly important to maintain that bloodline. So as it turns out, you will actually find many Israelis (and Jews around the world) who will tell you that they are Levites (I believe Levites have been estimated to be 5% of total Jews, but I can't find a source for that right now). But the vast majority of Jews are from the tribes of Benjmain and Judah.
By "a Benjamin" or "a Judah," I assume you just meant the tribes? Because I don't think I ever said that those particular individuals actually existed. I am not claiming any of the tribal origin stories have any historical validity.
Tribal distinctions are a real thing only because people believe them to be a real thing. The Bible is a perfectly valid source for telling you what ancient peoples believed about themselves. If you believe that you're a member of the Tribe of Benjamin, and a bunch of other people believe that too, then there's a tribe of Benjamin now.