For the most part, France was spared from those lenghty controversies about the supposed ancestors of the nation. While important, the questions never became as essential as it was for the Nazis, or even for italian fascists. This is mostly due to the fact that the mythological ancestors were officially appointed during the second half of the 19th century, and because the french far right had other things in mind.
From that point onward, the idea that Gauls were the common ancestors of french people wouldn't be challenged until the late 1960's and became widely accepted. This narrative was fitting the new diplomatic and domestic situation of France, who was at odd with Germany, and pretty much in constant political turnmoil: the Gauls attempted to resist the Germans (and the Romans, but that wasn't as important), and failed only because they weren't united. The Gauls were also described as a rural and hard working people, which had some importance, in a country not as industrialized as Germany or the UK.
Most french far-right groups and thinkers (and there were many of them, France was a very fertile soil for far right ideologies) accepted this narrative. Some didn't : Gobineau (a very influential author for the european far right, who wrote the famous Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races in 1855), who witnessed the shift between the frankish and gallic mythological ancestry, thought that France should embrace her germanic roots. Another far right scientist (the regionalist archeologist Jean-Jacques Thomasset) also obsessed by France's "moral depravity", theorized that Bourgogne (Burgundy) should leave France and join the Reich, as ancient Burgundians were also a germanic people. But overall, after two wars against Germany (a crippling defeat and a victory that left the country exhausted), nobody was eager to accept a germanic national ancestor. The Action française for example, probably the most active and most influential far right group, never cared about the Franks (despite being monarchist), because it was also vehemently germanophobe.
The problem with the Franks is that they're a germanic tribe, and an integral component of French nationalism, especially after Sedan, was Germanophobia. So the answer to your question is tricky. Maurras, for example, adored the classical civilization of Greece and Rome. Thus, he accepted the Gallo-Romans as Gauls accepting the Latin influence. My sources don't discuss the extent that biological race was important to Maurras, but it seems that he thought superior civilizations could influence certain inferior civilizations such as Gaul.
This is something I can kind of answer. The person and organization I will focus on are Charles Maurras and the Action Francaise. Now, few historians consider Maurras a fascist, but he was undoubtedly a far-right royalist and integral nationalist. One of the first fascist parties, Le Faisceau, was founded by Georges Valois was involved in the Action Francaise for several years. Maurras definitely engaged in the mythologization of history. He viewed the French as a Latin people. The Roman Empire brought the civilizing mission to Gaul. Thus the Celts were transformed into Gallo-Romans. His Germanophobia was so severe that he refused to believe that the Germanic invasions of Gaul during the early medieval period had any influence on the developing French kingdom. Maurras did not have much to say about the origins of the French. He was more concerned with the medieval period with its magnificent kings, especially Louis XIV.
Eugen Weber, Action Française: Royalism and Reaction in Twentieth-Century France, (Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1962).