2) Whether the nursing home can sue you depends on PA jurisdictional rules. A PA lawyer can advise you on that.
3) if they are able to sue you, and win, they then have to execute judgement which they have to do through an English court.
Before an English court will do this, they will subject the original judgement to a series of tests including whether there are public policy reasons that the judgement should not be enforced. An English lawyer who understands the enforcement of foreign judgements can advise you on this.
That said, if the nursing home obtains a judgement against you, it would need to persuade an English court that the it should enforce the judgment. That is not likely to happen. My expectation is that the English court would consider such an action to be against English public policy as it is English public policy that the NHS pays for nursing home care. If you happen to move to Scotland or Northern Ireland, I doubt those courts would be any more sympathetic to the nursing home.
IANAL. As others have state, Pennsylvania has some broad filial support laws requiring children to provide financial support for parents that are in nursing homes. The nursing home has to sue you in Pennsylvania courts and get a judgment against you. If you do not show up to court, they'll likely get a default judgment.
Piggy-backing to add: I think it would be a bad decision to let any potential suit reach a default judgment. A Pennsylvania (or any US) court would not have personal jurisdiction over OP.
Generally, a court can only hear a case if it can assert personal jurisdiction over the defendant. For personal jurisdiction to be proper, the defendant must either live in the state or have "minimum contacts" with the state relating to the cause of action. Business activities in the state, availing oneself of the public services offered in the state, etc. are examples of "minimum contacts.".
IANAL. One thing I wonder is if the claimant gets a default judjment, and then sells the debt to a collection agency; that collection agency can sell the debt to a collection agency in the UK.