And the things that really need to happen haven't happened even once (such as Trump indictments, and I'm not just talking for Jan 6, I'm also including the Stormy Daniels case, the Mar-A-Lago documents case, the Georgia case, the Mueller obstruction-of-justice episodes documented in Vol II of the Mueller report).
Things have been happening but they haven't been happening fast enough. , "Merrick Garland couldn’t have subpoenaed Mike Pence and Mark Meadows in, say, late 2021… why, exactly Jack Smith has subpoenaed both, within weeks of starting. But he’s already way behind because of Garland’s delay (with more delay to follow while the subpoenas are litigated).".
Eh. Top witnesses are commonly interviewed towards the end of an investigation, when prosecutors have a good sense of all the facts. Prosecutors want to go into these interviews knowing what questions to ask, what threads to follow, and knowing, more or less, what answers to expect.
The DOJ already interviewed Marc Short and Greg Jacob, Pence's Chief of Staff and lawyer, and at least two other top Pence aides, before a grand jury almost a year ago. They have had Meadows' phone records for at least 10 months. Not to mention testimony and/or siezed phone/communications/electronics from nearly every Trump lawyer, advisor, and aide, and Eastman and Clark, and Trump's PAC, and everyone who financed or planned the Jan 6 rally. They are not going into the Meadows and Pence interviews expecting to find new bombshell information: they know all about the discussions and events that took place in the White House surrounding Jan 6, the fake elector scheme, the pressure placed on Pence to refuse certification, etc. At this point they are, in all likelihood, just looking for corroborating testimony to wrap up these branches of the investigation.
It's easy to tell when something happens: just look for all the Reddit comments saying "nothing ever happens." .
Honing and Weissman are not inside these investigations, and while I respect their opinions, they are merely speculative: they are essentially armchair quarterbacks watching from the outside and grousing about how they think they would have done a better job than the head coach. There is no reason to accept as fact Honing's belief that the recent subpoenas of Pence and Meadows are "way behind" or "delayed.".