If you say "believing in only one God was the act of an idiot. And the most stupid religion because it targets the religion rather than the believers.
Yes, you should expect people of all religions to not be offended. If I say what I believe, which is "fuck your imaginary friend and your dead cult leader," you should brush that off as just some asshole's opinion. If you truly have a relationship with your god, then other peoples' opinions on that shouldn't affect you at all.
Name one. And don't say the US, because we still print "god" on our money and (unfortunately) only elect people who pander to the religious on both sides. Not having a state-sponsored religion is not the same as being an atheistic government, and realistically, the word you should have used is "secular," not "atheistic." Hell, I don't believe there are any atheistic governments in existence, because nations that don't have a state-sponsored religion typically value, y'know, freedom of religion.
China for one (Marxist atheists) The US isn’t an atheistic state but if you really count putting God on money, your point is already foolish. Vietnam, Stalinist era, Belarus, Latvia. Lenin point blank thought religion was a consolation that blinded the population. The Soviet era was basically anti religion but of course religions existed they just were condemned by the state. Albania was another in the 1960s. Most of these places executed or exiled religious clergy too. Read up on the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia-all religious practices were illegal. They weren’t soft about it either.
That’s a very narrow view of history/the world if you think places all subscribe to state sponsored religion or religious freedom. If you mean ideologies beyond spiritual beliefs sure.
You confuse personal beliefs - faith with religion. You may believe Allah is god but hold up then there's some guy who claims he is a prophet and you're ok you can dictate and make rules about how I must live my life. Then there's another one who makes you build a tower and shouts on top of it some more rules about what clothes to wear and what you can eat and what you can't eat. Again you're like okay this must be the word of god how else would this guy be in this fancy tower. Then those guys get involved in politics and go like god wants this and god says this must be like this. And soon they start to control the entire government all in the name of the Allah. Now, remember none of these rules apply to the elite clerics obviously. And that's how you get Saudi-arabia.