And the natural “compromise” would be that you can’t and that it’s instead a states rights issue. If the state constitutions are changed to give legislatures this authority then it’d be “okay”.
But Jackson's point is that these State Legislatures are granted their legislative power via the State Constitutions. The Federal Constitution doesn't define the makeup of the State Legislatures, the State Constitutions do. The point being you can't take the State Constitutions out of the question, for without that there is no state legislature at all.
What they really want is the ability for the state legislature to determine what is constitutional and what isn't. That lets them determine who draws the representative lines, and set the rules for who wins.
To be clear: this is not a doctrine that simply says that state legislatures get to make the rules around elections and how we hold them. That's already the case. No, the ISL says that those legislatures can make those rules completely independently of oversight by the courts. That's the key here. This means that a GOP-controlled legislature can gerrymander to their hearts' content, and there will be no recourse in the courts. They can close all the polling places in majority Black or Democratic precincts. They can pass laws reinstating a fucking poll tax and literacy test, for fuck's sake, and people will have no relief from the courts. It cannot be overstated just how big of a deal this is.
What's going to happen, IMO, is this: the howler monkey contingent is going to rule for the ISL, of course.
Assuming it all goes down this way, and it looks to me like it will, I think it will then be up to blue states to tell the illegitimate federal government to shove it up their asses. "They've made their law, now let them enforce it," basically. There's no way that huge, overwhelmingly blue cities and states are going to just sit back and let the theocrats have their religious dictatorship.
They wouldn't have even taken up the case if they didn't intend to rule in favor of the fascists. Hopefully I'm wrong and I'll feel mildly embarrassed about that in a few weeks, rather than feeling whatever emotions will come along with watching the literal collapse of the USA as we know it.