You have some names mixed up. This is based on a Czech candidate saying he doesn't want to send troops to Poland or Estonia if they are invaded by Russia, and the president of Poland responding that it's not optional, they already signed a binding treaty that requires it.
Because one of the presidential candidates here in Czechia openly said that he wouldn't send soldier to help NATO allies (Poland specifically) in case they were attacked.
Background: Andrej Babi코, one of the Czech Presidential candidates, said on live TV that as president, he would not send troops to Poland or The Baltics in case of an attack. Polish media picked the story up (and rightfully so) and now Babi코's team is in full damage control mode. It is also important to note that it wasn't a simple misunderstanding, he firmly stood behind his opinion.
I thought it was interesting that the moderator (Martin 콎ezn칤캜ek, I've met him personally) even gave him multiple chances to walk the statement back, yet he didn't. He only did that afterwards on Twitter, which was probably the result of his PR team anyway. But I will not be praying for you. Instead, I will be in the voting booth and I will vote for General Pavel who at least behaves like a respectful human being. I would rather eat shit than vote for Babi코 and his party. Never did, never will.
The thing is, his target audience and only listeners are old people with no idea how to spot and disregard misinformation. The whole Western world is in the middle of an information war and we've been in it for some time, but this older generation can't acknowledge it because they didn't grow up with technology and don't really see the impact it has on their lives. Nevertheless, the younger generations are full of smart and capable people who have the skills and tools necessary to not only wage, but also successfully counter this information war. The political climate in our country is bad, but not nearly as bad as the US. We are observing, learning, and trying to do better. Our nation is quite young, but we want to remain a developed, democratic country with western values. We'll try our best, let's see in thirty years or so .
He's a fraud and an Orb치n-like populist. Of course he is crooked, there is no point in investigating him. People have tried, but he is somehow always found not guilty 游뗶 He owns like half of our media, I really wonder why. This guy is our Trump and he will lose just like him. And just like Trump, he'll be just another rich fuck we can soon forget.