Geography certainly plays a role but the barrier you are thinking of isn't the delta (after all, that didn't inhibit other locations like Nile Delta to play a vital role). No, its the that acted as a big divider between the lower and upper parts of the Danube. If you look at the river from its source in Germany, you can see many settlements developped along its shores which then depended on both riverine trade and river crossing for their economy - Regensburg, Linz, Vienna, Bratislava, Budapest, Belgrade to name the largest ones.
You might be right about economies of the Danube basin but my main point is that pretty much any other major river route leads you to the big world trade, while the Danube leads you away from it (and in this case it doesn't matter if the river's fully navigable or not). No matter what, no matter how developed the Danube and Black sea countries can be, the Black sea is still a second rate trade route (easily blockable by a hostile power, too), nothing compared to, for example, the Mediterranean. And the Danube doesn't help you reach world major trade routes (unless you live close to the Danube's mouth) - unlike the Rhine, the Yanze, the Elbe, the Seine or the Nile.
And while you're right to point out that the Danube isn't the only way for say, Vienna, to connect to these trade routes, river travel is much faster and easier than overland travel. So if the Danube were hypothetically navigable, it would be much faster to ship goods from Kaffa or Constantinople across the Black Sea and then down the Danube to Vienna than it would be to sail around the Balkans to the Adriatic and then carry overland for that last leg. The downside of doing so would be that it would skip important trade entrepots in the eastern Mediterranean, but if the Danube were navigable, there would probably also be important trade posts along the river that would be worth visiting.
Fundamentally, the key issue here (as u/hatsek points out) is that the Danube is not navigable for large stretches, including most of the lower reaches of the river near to the sea.
If the Danube were navigable along its full lenh, the Black Sea region probably would have had a stronger trade connection with Central Europe and countries in that area would be richer.
In short, the Rhine opens the deep sea for you with countless trade possibilities throughout the whole world, the Danube opens for you a relatively small sea with relatively poor countries.
This is the problem of physical geography of the Danube: at multiple points of this river it is closer (and easier) to conduct your trade from non-Black sea ports. Not the case of the Rhine.