In forensic interviews, four year-olds have difficulty with disclosure. They can sometimes tell who, what, and where, but in terms of "why, how, and when," they struggle (and the majority of the time, unable to answer at all). That's understood in the field. But until they're ready to disclose, they won't. Disclosure is a process. There's a possibility that the case may not go anywhere for a while because of the lack of disclosure. But there's a possibility that it WILL be sent up to the District Attorney's office for review. If you get your child into counseling and your child makes a disclosure to her counselor or therapist, that disclosure can be used in court (assuming you sign a release of information for law enforcement).
Don't think of it as your daughter "did very little to help the case." She is doing what she can right now. Just because she did not talk in the forensic interview does not mean she won't talk later. I know you want justice. You may have to look at it as wanting someone held "accountable." That's how I make peace with myself in my cases. I personally don't get to determine what justice is. What I CAN do is try to hold people accountable. Where they have to answer to the charges.
Cop here who is assigned primarily sex crimes and crimes against children. While it may feel like a "he said, she said" case, like a previous commenter stated, you do have the physical evidence of the doctor's visit and the marble. Also, forensic interviews, because of how they're conducted, tend to carry more weight than other interviews. (This may be moot if your daughter did not fully disclose what happened to her.).
2. Priority two: Look after the expenses (Finances are the ones that will make your family live in the long run).
3. Priority three: If you got money, I say lawyer the hell up. If not, you can still make a case with the help of the DA and a Psychiatrist + sexual assault counselor (I hope that they will be able to decipher the emotions of your daughter to be presented to the court in an explainable manner which is to act as a proof. Like testimony, witnesses, images, DNA tests, etc.).