It’s definitely slowing China’s plans when it came to their Taiwan invasion idea since now they’re having to deal with the fact that their own country is about to face what could be one of the worst population epidemics we’ve ever seen. So that should be one thing you can stop worrying about at least for the next few months.
Eh not really, China in the recent years has really made a strong push for Taiwan and now the fact that the US is starting to bring all the computer chip companies back into the US as well and the fact that Taiwan produces a very very high number of computer chips makes it even more desirable with all the companies leaving China. On top of that recent US activity in Taiwan like Pelosi’s trip put China very on edge with how close Taiwan in the US are becoming and already are. Plus they’re due for an economic collapse soon so they want to try and claim the country before then otherwise they’re going to have to wait almost a decade to try again. For them realistically it would be best to try and take that whilst everybody is still focused on Russia however, with this new variant, it seems less likely that China is gonna make any type of moves and end up losing the small window that the Russians have provided. Of course, nothings been guaranteed publicly and most of the people at the top will say that China isn’t planning to do anything rn. However, if you look at memos from the department of defense, you can see they’re getting pretty antsy when it comes to how Xi talks as he’s has been saying a lot of “we will go for it” and stuff like that. Tho it’s still very unlikely it’s something that the US is still look at.
China has a big problem where they sent everybody into such an aggressive lockdown. The virus never actually really made its way through the public, which means that the population doesn’t have field immunity like the majority of the US does or most other European and Asian countries do. Now this wouldn’t be a massive issue. If the Covid variant that’s over there right now Omicron wasn’t one of the worst variants. What China was hoping for was for a new strain to come out that was weaker, but that hasn’t happened so now the population is pretty much having to go through with everybody else went through at the beginning, but now with an even worse version of the virus and then then.
If the Chinese central government deployed more scientific methods to cease the virus outbreak, most Chinese people might’ve enjoyed better situations. But Xi Jinping’s Zero Corona lockdown couldn’t show reliable results, so many Chinese citizens expressed their complaints openly. The CCP regime should build another effective way to soothe raging Chinese citizens.