No. When they agreed to the settlement, part of what they agreed to was to release you from any further claims.
When they accepted the settlement, it very likely had a "no further claims" clause and a release from further liability. In other words, they agreed that the settlement "closed the matter." They can sue you, you can refer it to your insurance company, who will almost certainly win because the claimant already released you and the insurer from any further claims.
They are welcome to ask the the insurance agent anything they like, but it is their responsibility to consult a physician, attorney, etc \before\ accepting a settlement.
For a bodily injury payout (as opposed to med pay or something like that) that likely would have been a settlement and release of further claims, so I would tell them to contact your insurance if they have further questions, and the insurance will tell them to get lost.
If this was the at fault driver and their medical bills, then yes, their insurance carrier pays their bills directly, but they would be doing this via Med Pay or PIP rather that bodily injury liability coverage.
Nope, for third parties, they are one and the same. There can be special circumstances with serious injuries where there may be separate payments, but that is the exception not the rule. Bodily Injury Liability coverage provides for the related medical costs as well as a pain and suffering aspect, that you don't have to ask for (but you do have the option of negotiating that amount).
For a third party or claimant, which your friend is/was in this accident, the insurance company pays them a settlement that covers their medical bills and then a pain/suffering portion. Unless there was a lien on a bill, then the insurance company isn't paying that bill directly, they give your friend a check and then its your friend's responsibility to pay their bills with that money, and what is left over is theirs. In the event they don't pay those bills...they still owe that, not you or your insurance carrier.