Do you even have a clue how Israel got the west bank FROM Jordan ( not some imaginary Palestinian state which did not exist) ?
...and I didn't even bother to mention all the terror attacks and thausands of rockets fired on Israeli civilians in between the wars.
Arabs (that are now dead) trying to genocide Israel over half a century ago shouldn't cover for Israel deciding what to do with the modern Palestinian that had nothing to do with those wars.
The West Bank was separated from Israel in 1948 by a genocidal invasion by multiple surrounding Arab states that was illegal.
Thanks for proving my point. You pivoted to houses built in the territory taken illegally by invading Israel, in a tiny settlement that is unrepresentative of the whole, which was previously demolished.
Israel building houses in territory taken from Israel in 1948 by a genocidal invasion, or evicting a handful of Palestinians (the area is 60% of the West Bank and 5% of the Palestinian population; it’s mostly empty and stories of evictions are wildly exaggerated) is completely different from Russia invading Ukraine.
Same as how they pretend the settlements are all built on land Palestinians were evicted from, even though almost all of them are built on land that’s been empty and was owned by the Ottoman state, then the British, then Israel, and has been state-owned land for hundreds of years.
Of course - 'they pretend all settlements are built on land Palestinians are evicted from' naturally, this means that 'NO settlements are built on land Palestinians are evicted from', right?
You didn’t explain how isolated or small outposts that don’t make up even 10% of settlements are somehow proof that settlements are illegal under Israeli law as you claimed.
You didn’t explain how Israel building houses on land stolen from Israel illegally in 1948 is somehow the same as Russia invading Ukraine.
If you can't answer the facts I laid out about the history, or Zelensky explicitly saying Israel is like Ukraine and vice-versa, I suggest you rethink the issue.
Then explain it to Zelensky, who explicitly has said that Ukraine’s situation reminds him of Israel’s.