It's not that their votes just weren't counted. Southern states that declared secession chose not to participate in the U.S. presidential election of 1864. The states that had declared secession believed that they had formed a new nation, wholly separate from the United States. They had set up their own government with their own president, and, as far as they were concerned, had no reason to participate in the U.S. election. Why would they? They believed that it wasn't their government anymore. I'm not aware of any situations where a Southerner attempted to vote in the election, but since elections would have been managed by state governments, there most likely wouldn't have been any opportunity to cast a vote even if someone had wanted to.
The Southern states that declared secession had formed the Confederate States of America and elected Jefferson Davis to be their President in February 1861 under the Provisional Confederate Constitution (and again under the Permanent Confederate Constitution in February 1862). Under the Confederate Constitution, the President served a term of 6 years, and was not eligible for reelection. This meant that the next Confederate presidential election would have taken place in 1868. However, the Confederate government was dissolved following the South's loss at the end of the Civil War in May 1865, making Jefferson Davis the first and only President of the Confederate States of America. Confederate states had held midterm elections in 1863, but there were no national Confederate elections in 1864.
Tennessee and Louisiana were under Union control at the time and participated in the elections of 1864. Although Lincoln won the popular vote in these states (due to the disenfranchisement of former Confederates), the electoral votes for these states were not counted as they had not been readmitted to the Union.
As they had already been readmitted, Tennessee was the only Confederate state that didn’t endure the strict military Reconstruction that was imposed by the Radical Republicans following Lincoln’s assassination. Lincoln’s Vice President and successor, Andrew Johnson, was a Tennessean, which undoubtedly influenced Lincoln’s treatment of the state.
Tennessee is actually a special case during that whole period of American history. They were the last state to successfully secede and the first to be reconquered in 1862. Because Lincoln favored a moderate plan for reconstruction of the south, Tennessee underwent a mild form of reconstruction early on, and was readmitted to the Union by 1866. The remaining members of the Confederacy wouldn’t be readmitted until the late 1860s and early 1870s.