The outbreak of the Korean War came as an immense shock to American strategic calculations and the conflict's early phase was characterised by fears that the DPRK invasion—backed, it was assumed in Washinon, by the USSR and PRC—presaged a much wider communist assault on the West. The atomic bomb was brought into discussions on the very first day of the war and remained a factor for the next three years. Truman found himself in a paradoxical situation: horrified by the effects of the atomic bomb and at the same time fully aware of its importance in America's stand against communism. Truman placed himself under a mental strain that would last until he absolved himself of responsibility for nuclear decision-making by refusing to run for the Presidency in 1952.
When, on November 30 1950, Truman responded to the goading of the press with the statement that nuclear weapons had always been considered as tools to aid the war effort, the world exploded in uproar. This period was vital in the Truman administration's 'nuclear education', highlighting the extreme response to the merest mention of the A-bomb. Also of significance were the accusations of 'appeasement' levelled at the administration when they chose not to use the full power of the atomic arsenal against the Chinese armies. Fully aware of the weight of such accusations—redolent as they were of Chamberlain, Munich, and the Nazis—Truman and his colleagues formulated plans to offload the blame for the strategy onto British Prime Minister Clement Attlee. Appeasement accusations form an underestimated influence on Truman and the administration. The 'offloading' was not enacted and this strand of criticism would continue to provoke debate throughout the Korean War.
From July 1951 to January 1953, the evolving theory of tactical nuclear weapons use and the non-use debate clashed. Prior to the 'tactical revolution' engendered by the Korean War, nuclear weapons had broadly been seen—with some notable exceptions—as purely strategic instruments. Korea demonstrated the dangers of potential strategic use and therefore pushed planners towards the search for battlefield uses. Notions of the tactical applications of the A-bomb provoked great debate in Congress and the media, with key figures from the administration stoking the fire. By this stage in the war, however, the time for nuclear weapons to decisively influence the course of events had passed. Korea had become a static war and in such an environment there could be little, if any, justification for employing weapons as powerful as the atomic bomb.
The whole affair with Truman and nuclear power started well before Korea was even an active battlefield, when he authorised the first (and so far only/last) deployment of nuclear weapons against Hiroshima and Nagasaki during the Second World War. He therefore, of all people, knew the conflict-ending power of the atom; so it was hence an entirely valid prediction that America might bring this potent new weapon to bear against the North Korean and Chinese forces in 1950. As historian Nathan A. Jennings points out:
\[4\]: Jennings, Nathan A. “NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND THE KOREAN WAR: A PRECARIOUS BEGINNING FOR THE TRADITION OF NON-USE.”.
For non-use in Korean War, you can find support for both of these arguments, which is perhaps a sign that they are not mutually exclusive. The Joint Chiefs of Staff and other military commanders did discuss the possibility of nuclear weapons use, but their memos make it clear they were very hesitant for the "rationalist" reasons I've given above. It was just not clear that using nukes would actually make a big difference tactically (it wouldn't obviously lead to an unambiguous or quick military victory), and the potential political consequences (the Korean War, remember, was a UN police action, and the US was feeling more pressed than ever to make sure it had its allies in line with it as it confronted a newly-nuclear Soviet Union) would be high. It could also have a hugely escalatory effect, bringing in more Chinese or direct Soviet support of the North Korean troops that could make the war much harder to win, and potentially escalate into a more general war.