In the 1950’s and 1960’s, especially when Bobby Kennedy’s Justice Department took organized crime as a public priority, the feds quickly found that they could easily arrest virtually any member of the mob they wanted, but they had enormous difficulty tying its leaders to the crimes of their underlings. See for example the Appalachian Meeting of 1957, in which some 60 bosses from various families were arrested and charged, but all their sentences for conspiracy to obstruct justice were overturned on appeal (note for later: before 1957 very few Americans believed the mafia even existed. J Edgar Hoover had even actively denied its existence, which suited the mob perfectly well). The problem was that traditional Anglo-American common law required more evidence for inchoate crimes than could be gathered, particularly in the face of the mafia’s code of silence.
This was indeed a great blow, but its greatest impact on the subsequent power of the mafia was (arguably) indirect. The trial meant that RICO had finally reached its full potential (today it is perhaps the most powerful tool available to federal prosecutors). The mafia went even further underground than before, and generally abandoned any activity that would bring them unwanted attention (particularly public acts of violence). Ask any average American today if the mafia still exists and they will probably say no, or shrug at most. That is exactly the response the families want; to return to the days before the Appalachian Meeting when they were more of a scary bed-time story than a real threat. The Commission allegedly still meets, though nobody knows where or how often. From a legal perspective, Giuliani’s prosecutions are more laudable for the innovative use of RICO rather than for their impact on the mob.
Giuliani’s fight against organized crime needs to be understood in terms of his innovative use of RICO, the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (18 USC § 1961-1968).
Is there truth to people saying/growing popular understanding that the way Giuliani pursued the Italian mob allowed others, like the Russians, to assume control of organized crime in NY?