But not only religious figures were invoked for the Spanish conquest. Parallels between descriptions of Christian knights in medieval Iberian romances and of Spanish conquistadors can also be drawn. Thus El Cid appears as a model for the figures of Cortés, Pizarro and other Spaniards portrayed as similiarly “heroic” conquerors.
So that we can see here (as in many other fields) a rhetorical linking by the conquistadors of Iberian "reconquest" and American "conquest".
So Cortés was giving Charles V, his secretaries, his court, and eventually Europe's literati a verbal picture of Mexican civilization, yes. But he was also giving them an ideological one--and, you might say, helping to build that ideology of European colonization and domination.
Second, those comparisons can also be seen as a means to justify colonisation to potential opponents (such as England), by covering economic motives with religious justification. This is not to say that most Spanish did not truly believe in the religious aspect of their colonisation - the two seemingly contradictory aims were apparently melded together in a conquistador mindset crafted in the reconquest of the peninsula.
Here we can also draw parallels with the reconquista's focus on Divine Providence or Intervention: Later (late 16th c.) Mexican Franciscan scholars like Géronimo de Mendieta and Juan de Torquemada took up especially the image of Cortés of earlier chroniclers and cast him as a “New World Moses”, who had according to them fulfilled divine plans through the conquest.
Finally, Beck also points out that the description of Mesoamerican temples as mosques was not limited to Cortés (or Gómara, who at one point made a direct comparison between the Muslims and Mesoamericans), but that this language also shows up in other early writers like Acosta and even in accounts of Pizarro's actions in Peru.
Furthermore, for accounts of the conquest scholars like Anthony Pagden have shown that descriptions of the Spaniards' first impressions of the Aztec capital city Tenochtitlan were modelled on accounts of the Catholic Kings' conquest of Muslim Granada; and that the fictionalised speech reproduced by Cortés to show Moctezuma's “donation” of the Aztec realm to the Spanish emperor has medieval Castilian precedents.
The early reports we have, the best known being by Spaniards like Hernan Cortés himself and a later one Díaz de Castillo, show various reactions: A loss of words; comparisons to Spanish and other European cities; and (more implicitly) an equation of the conquest of Tenochtitlan with the Roman conquest of Jerusalem. At the least with the first two of these, there's a clear sense that the conquistadors did not know how describe this very different kind of city. As de Castillo puts it regarding cities and towns the Spaniards passed by: