Were the firearms returned? If not, cops 100% must be called. Even if they have been returned, it's very strange that the Trustee is giving 'second chances'.
As to your last question, it's probably unlikely the estate will evict. If you get the house you would have to evict like any other landlord. Make sure you keep all correspondence, and pictures of the house. A good question for your lawyer would be whether the estate (the trustee) is entitled to keys. If so, ask them (with, say, 48 hours notice) to go into the house and document its condition thoroughly. If things have been stolen, she is not above breaking the law. Do note take anything from the house yourself without direction from both the trustee and your lawyer.
First, whether you should get a separate attorney depends in part on whether you trust the trustee and their attorney to handle the situation properly. The trustee’s duty is to administer the trust in accordance with the trust agreement, which presumably reflects your dad’s wishes. Their attorney should be helping to ensure this happens and protect the trust against hostile actions take by the GF or anyone else. If you feel comfortable that the trustee is reliable and can perform as required with the aid of their own counsel, then you don’t necessarily need to spend on a separate lawyer. That said, remember, the trustee’s lawyer does NOT represent you, and your interest is not necessarily the same as that of the trust or the trustee. If you have any doubts at all (particularly given the contentious context) or want a professional set of eyes to verify that the trust is being administered correctly, or if you want an advocate at the table who is an expert in the legal issues involved and thinking/speaking without the burden of grief, then engage your own lawyer.
Very sorry for your loss. I’m an attorney, though of course not yours, and this goes beyond my area of expertise, but I offer a few thoughts.
Yes, there needs to be a qualified attorney on this. The trust will pay for it. If the trustee is hesitant, you should probably look into petitioning the court to replace them as well. Even refusing to immediately call the police about the firearms is a huge issue. The trustee has a fiduciary duty not to just sit still and allow assets to be taken.
The trustee allowing “2nd chances” on goods stolen from the estate is a HUGE red flag and goes against their fiduciary duties. Appoint a new trustee immediately.