Send it to your insurance company and they will respond appropriately, they owe you a defense if suit is filed so don’t worry if she does actually sue . If you don’t send it to your insurance that could potentially jeopardize your coverage for that defense.
Uhhh... No, that would definitely be breach of contract with the insured, since they would no longer be insuring anything. Why have a contract for insurance that the insurer can at any point say "eh, sucks to be you we don't want to cover payment.".
If there was 50/50 responsibility, then there was already a negotiation between insurance companies, and there's 0 chance that they allowed it to exceed policy limits and not sign a waiver of indemnity.
No issue occurs as, most of the time, the total damages are below the coverage limit, meaning it is cheaper for the insurance company to offer less than the limit, and include an indemnity clause in the settlement to prevent the damaged party from suing.
If the insurance company believes the case will exceed the insurance limits and the insured refuses a settlement they believe reasonable, they could offer a settlement agreement that only has indemnity for the insurance company while leaving the insured on the hook for additional damages, but they would generally require an additional agreement with the insured releasing the company from the legal defense clause.
In the vast majority of cases, the settlement agreement the insurance company offers will include an indemnity clause that releases the insurance company and the insured from additional damages, though this may be limited to either property damage or personal injury in the specific settlement. The insurance company will generally insist on this as most policies state they are responsible for reasonable legal costs of the insured for any covered incident.
Most insurance has that, in the form of coverage limits setting an upper bound for what the insurance company will pay for a single incident (or even in total, as used to be common with health insurance).
If the total damages exceed the coverage limit, its up to the insured to pay out of pocket (or use a secondary insurance policy) to pay to remainder.
Do be aware that it is possible that the settlement between the insurance companies related solely to the property damage. She may be intending to pursue a personal injury claim, which MAY not have been covered in the settlement.