I would start off by saying that the Apostle's travel to the Malabar coast and its impact on early Christianity in the subcontinent is a topic of debate. This is mainly because there is not much record beyond the legend about the journeys of the man. From the limited sources that are available two likely routes of entry are speculated. One is the most widely accepted view that St. Thomas came through the sea route into the Malabar. This is further validated by the presence of St. Thomas Christians in the region to the present day. The other sources indicate Thomas being in Persia, gandhara and western India. Given the trade networks of the time both these routes are well within the realm of possibility. In the first century it would have been possible to take a ship from either the red sea or the Persian gulf and move along the coast till the monsoon winds would carry the sails to the coast of Malabar. In the north the caravan routes crisscrossed what at the time would have been the Indo - Parthian empire into the territory of the indo Scythians (Saka empire). This was part of the Silk Route roads. This is considering that St. Thomas himself traveled to India. There is much debate on this account with the counter position that its most likely that only the preaching of Thomas traveled with traders(who at the time were a significant flow of people between the eastern edge of Rome and India). Some scholars suggest that Thomas being a common name in the Levant at the time the legend could be confusing the historical figure with others like Thomas of Cana. This would push the date to the 6th century CE. Either ways considering your question posits the date at 50 CE i'll try and explain the makeup of the subcontinent at that time.
The region south of the Deccan being mostly beyond the ambit of Mauryan control had a very different history. The region in 50 CE would have been split between the Cholas, the Pandyas in the coromandel coast and numerous kingdoms on the coast of Kerala predominantly the Cheras and the Ay kingdom. If we are to follow the view that Thomas the Apostle landed in Kerala in the 1st century, then it is very likely he would have landed in one of the Chera ports. The ports of Muziris(present day kodunkallur) and Tyndis(Tondi) were well connected to the Roman trade networks. Their prominence in the monsoonal trade networks is evident from the mention as a main center in the Roman Peutinger Table. Considering present day Thomas Christians are primarily centered in the region of Kerala with their main holy sites in the hills inland from the location of muziris the likelihood of early Christianity entering through these ports is possible. The later historical figure Thomas of Cana is also said to have built the town of Mahadevapattana near the same port as a christian settlement.
I must say that this is generalized account. The reasons for this is that the 1st century in the subcontinent is marked by the formation of several states after the fall of the Mauryan empire and the Sungas that succeeded them. This means there is a lot of nuance in state formation that I have left out. This is also a very general description of the political history of the time, I’ve not been able to include the histories of several smaller regions. It would be great if more users can discuss further about more specific histories of India at the time.
If we look to accounts that are from the first century AD, then we can see that the knowledge of India had developed a great deal. If we refer to what Herodotus actually knew then we can see that his knowledge was limited and often very inaccurate. He wrote only a few chapters on India in the third book of his Histories (mostly 3.97-106), with a few references elsewhere. Herodotus talks about the wealth of India, that it is a province of the Persian Empire, that they are a numerous people, and several other comments on their peculiar habits. He mentions two tribes by name (the Callatiae at 3.38 and the Padaei in 3.98), and goes on to give an account of giant ants that dig gold as well as a group of vegetarians that avoid harming animals which makes them sound a lot like the Jains.