Yes, this is very much the case. In most places and most times, the common varieties of sword were usually called "sword". Many of these terms have been imported from the local languages of those times and places and are used in English today to mean a particular type of sword (e.g., gladius, spatha, xiphos, parang, shamshir, tulwar, and more), but they originally just mean "sword", generically.
The finer classification of types is something mostly done by modern collectors (and militaries after the advent of uniform patterns of arms), rather than by those who used the swords originally. Perhaps the ultimate n detail is the classification of the Indonesian-Malay keris by collectors, with what is to outsiders a single type of blade (a keris) being classified by details of the patterns, blade shapes, etc. (Harsrinuksmo, 2004). However, there are some detailed classfications used in the past. For example, al-Kindi classifies swords by material (iron, pattern-welded iron and steel, crucible steel), and/or place of origin, and type of pattern on the surface of the blade (Hoyland & Gilmour, 2006). Japanese blades are classified by cross-section of the blade (e.g., shinogi-zukuri, hira-zukuri, etc.), shape of tip, curvature of the blade (whether uniform or concentrated in some part of the blade), pattern of hamon (hardened edge pattern), and style/school of swordsmith.
AVB Norman made a typology of Rapier and sidesword hilts, which is very useful for classifying the vast range of variations in this type of sword.
Much of the difference between different types of swords due to the things noted above will simply not matter at all when it comes down to sword vs bow and arrow, and sword vs spear. They will also not matter as much on a crowded and chaotic battlefield. In a one-on-one duel, they will matter the most, and in those circumstances, one sees the development of types of swords to focus on one of those advantages (e.g., the rapier for lenh, and the smallsword for low weight and consequent speed).
Many, many words have been expended on debates such as "katana vs longsword", which of two particular sword types is "better". If one keeps in mind basic principles of lenh, weight, handedness, and perhaps curvature, much of such debate can be ignored: