The joint checking account ownership is also referred to legally as right of survivorship. When the primary accountholder died, everything automatically goes to the secondary accountholder.
You will have to get clarification from the bank about what would happen if direct deposits continue to come in under the decedent's name and the decedent's name has been taken out of the account. Technically the bank should deny the deposit if they only are checking by name. If you want the payments by direct deposit discontinued, you should notify the entity that is making the payments and inform them that no more payments should be sent to the particular account that they have the routing numbers for.
It is possible that a stimulus payment made payable to the decedent may be okay to have been deposited in the account and may not need to be repaid. There will be more information about that in the IRS website and also on the relevant state income tax website if you were implying that the "state level treasury deposit" was a state income tax refund.
File your claims or complaints with the IRS and with the state department of revenue and they will explain whether they will or will not be contacting the joint accountholder to ask for return of the money.
If you are referring to stimulus payments that belonged to the decedent or an income tax refund that belonged to the decedent, then those are very specific incidents. If you are not sure whether the joint account owner was entitled to receive those payments, you should first do your research.
If the money should have gone to the decedent, or to the decedent's estate, then the account owner has to pay the money to the correct owner. The current account owner has some "ownership" rights to the money, but only to the extent necessary to pay it back. In other words, he has the right and duty to write a check for the money.
The correct owner might be the estate, or it might be whoever sent the money. If it is whoever sent the money, then maybe they need to send the same amount to the estate (which they probably will not do until they get the funds back from the incorrect owner.).