This is a great post! I would add that I'd be (mildly) surprised if Šapur's army actually matched Julian's army in numbers (40,000 is a more typical "grand army" size in estimates of the Sasanian levies). What it would likely have had though would be considerable cavalry superiority, in numbers for sure, possibly in ability and equipment, drawn from the various (largely Parthian) noble families.
Yes, I remember that as well! I agree, I think there's a common tendency to conflate the Sasanians with the Arsacids (far more lackluster, military performance-wise) when comparing to the Roman Empire, but the more I've read about it, the more I've been inclined to conclude that in terms of military prowess, the Sasanians were more or less on equal footing with the Romans, and even a step or two ahead at times.
You're absolutely right about the flaws of the Sasanian decentralisation - the reforms of Khusrau Anushirwan empowering middling landowners would bring the empire to its military zenith (probably destroying a massive army led by Heraclius at Antioch, for example, though sources only really hint at this). But they would also lead to defections and noble families making bids for power, leading to civil war, failure to secure an advantageous peace against Rome, and ultimately undoing Sasanian dominion in the face of Arab incursions and eventually outright comquest.
But the main thing to focus on is that the landed elite were resistant to any attempt by the state to increase centralized military and political power — this plus constant civil strife hamstrung the late Antique army.
This was a solvable problem, but the Dominate lacked the political will to face it down — it would have required a pay raise for the army to make it an attractive career once more, and doing that would have necessitated breaking the grip of the landed elite over state finances. It is worth noting that the post-476 eastern Romans under Anastasius solved this problem with alacrity. While they did face revolts and opposition drawing on disgruntled elites, it is stunning to think that a state controlling half the territory of Julian’s empire was able to muster armies of comparable size with greater ease than the 4th century Dominate.
While you are correct to note that Julian had gone to extraordinary lenhs to muster his force — he concentrated at least a large part of the field armies of Gaul and Illyria both, along with the usual army of the Orient and Praesental guards) it is important to keep in mind that the mid fourth century empire was experiencing a deep crisis of military recruitment. While this was not on the scale of what Honorius’ desperate regime faced during the fifth century, it was nonetheless becoming a massive problem for imperial statesmen.