Well, that probably has to do with the fact that allied soldiers were terrified of them as well. And while the PzKpfw VI Tiger might have been far more expensive than a T-34, and far more likely to break down, that didn't help you when you were looking down the barrel of a Kwk 88. It's easy for us to say the Tiger was a bad tank because it was so unreliable and expensive and sluggish and whatnot, but from the perspective of an allied soldiers in WWII, seeing a Tiger tank must have been terrifying. Anyway, point is, the effectiveness of German tanks wasn't just NS-propaganda. If you know an example of actual NS-propaganda that we still believe, I would like to hear.
Before that, though, it's helpful to expand our thinking about "propaganda education." The most generous definition of propaganda is "information used to promote or publicize a particular political cause or point of view." In effect, the fact American schoolchildren say the pledge in the morning is propaganda. This becomes even clearer in the context of the addition of "under God" in the 1950s. (I get into that a bit .) While we can frame the decision to ask virtually all of America's children to perform a daily ritual in which they recite words in the direction of the flag as patriotism or building civic duty, it's propaganda. That it's a part of virtually every public school in America puts it under your umbrella of "propaganda education." Holding this tension - that propaganda education isn't just something that happened in Axis countries - can help us be a bit clearer about how complicated and common propaganda is in schools.
There's a couple of different ways to answer your question and I'll defer to those who are more familiar with Germany post-Word War II to speak to more specifics but I can speak to some general moves made by the German education system, especially post-unification.
To your question as it how well it went, education historians have differing takes on the success of the re-education of the German population went after the war, especially with regards to American involvement. For every strongly-worded essay I found where the historian declared it a success, there was one calling it a failure. We can look to the rise of neo-Nazi groups as a sign of failure but we can also look to the continued conversation in German schools about the Holocaust, the role of personal responsibility towards those with less power, and moral autonomy as a sign of success.
I see what you're saying about the current rise in Neo-NAZI ideology, but that seems to be a fairly consistent rise across a lot of Europe and USA too, so does that necessarily mean that it is rising in Germany because of failures in their education system, or is that strain of political belief rising for the same reasons as it is in these other countries?
Regarding your second question, "so does that necessarily mean that it is rising in Germany because of failures in their education system, or is that strain of political belief rising for the same reasons as it is in these other countries?" I'll defer to those who study the rise of neo-Nazi movements, but I suspect that history sits outside our 20 year rule, alas.