I'm currently visiting a dear friend of mine in the Netherlands. Yesterday, we spoke at lenh about empathy and about compassion, and how you can understand and process someone's experiences when you have no real way of truly imagining those experiences. How do you support someone, listen to them, and comprehend what they have gone through, when you have no frame of reference in your own experience, when a void lies between life as you can comprehend it and life as it is described to you?
In the coming years, the last of these brave people will pass away, and with them the Holocaust will pass from living memory, across to the far side of that void of comprehension. As they leave, they will pass the torch to us, as historians, advocates, people of compassion, every day human beings, to tell their stories and remember their experiences to ourselves and to each-other.
I can't say what remembrance of the Holocaust will look like in the future, or whether we will succeed in our mission as educators, to keep the lessons of this horror alive in the minds of the public, of policymakers and governments and military men. I have hope, though perhaps more fear too than I did when I first began my journey as an educator. I have not just hope, but great confidence and pride, in knowing that in striving for this mission, I work alongside people such as yourself. Whose understanding, empathy and compassion I can only aspire to. That together we build upon the lived experience, the accounts, the bravery and every day sacrifices of the people who gave their time, gave their passion, gave every ounce of strenh in their souls, and too often gave their lives to tell the world of what happened. The people who lived through the Holocaust, those who didn't, and all those who fought life and limb to bring their stories to all of us, that we might never forget and never repeat.
The evil architects and executors of the Holocaust hadn't reckoned with such as her, or any survivor who lived to tell. Whether she ever spoke of her experiences I'll never know. But as those who remember are fading and dying, we the living must never forget, on this day or any other.
I do not know these people, I was never alive at the same time as them so I never had the chance, but I do not want them to be remembered for their deaths. Deaths can be reduced to numbers, especially when no one is left to mourn those who are gone, or those left are too traumatised to talk about it, as in the case of my great grandfather, whose sister was murdered either in the Losice ghetto, Treblinka, or somewhere along the way.