Do you have all the funds necessary to make you current? If so you will need to pay all balances and any late fees and then you should have access again..4.4 states that failure to pay results in them denying service.
My question is can they legally both deny service’s and continue to demand payments for the months after they denied services?. Isn’t that like evicting someone and still telling them to pay for rent for months after eviction?
4.4. Late payment: If You do not pay fees when due, a fee will be charged on all overdue balances. This fee will differ by country and is listed in the House Rules. If You dispute any part of an invoice You must pay the amount not in dispute by the due date or be subject to late fees. We also reserve the right to withhold services (including for the avoidance of doubt, denying You access to the Centre where applicable) while there are any outstanding fees and/or interest, or You are in breach of an agreement.
Ending an agreement immediately: We may put an end to an agreement immediately by giving You notice if (a) You become insolvent or bankrupt; or (b) You breach one of your obligations which cannot be put right, or which We have given You notice to put right and which You have failed to put right within 14 days of that notice; or (c) Your conduct, or that of someone at the Centre with Your permission or invitation, is incompatible with ordinary office use and, (i) that conduct continues despite You having been given notice, or (ii) that conduct is material enough (in Our reasonable opinion) to warrant immediate termination; or (d) You are in breach of the “Compliance With Law” clause below. If We put an end to an agreement for any of the reasons referred to in this clause it does not put an end to any of Your financial obligations, including, without limitation, for the remainder of the period for which Your agreement would have lasted if We had not terminated it.
This part: "If We put an end to an agreement for any of the reasons referred to in this clause it does not put an end to any of Your financial obligations, including, without limitation, for the remainder of the period for which Your agreement would have lasted if We had not terminated it." means that they can boot you out and yet still charge the monthly rent until the end of the agreement. You could do a brief consultation with a lawyer to find out if this agreement breaks any laws or can otherwise be invalidated, but they're acting within the agreement you signed.