New York is the second most expensive city in the us and has a major housing problem. Where the fuck do you want them? All of the open office building are owned by private corporations and from a safety perspective is much harder to turn into homes than you think.
If i were an immigrant coming tot his country, there literally isn’t a worse place for you to end up besides San Fran.
Have you not been to nyc. No one can afford the type of places where immigrants used to work. Half of the store fronts are empty. Within Manhattan those jobs are gone. Sure go up to queens and Yonkers you can find some but anywhere in the heart of nyc, they are gone. No one can afford nyc except those working extremely high paying corporate jobs, or living in a 150 sqft box that one human can live in doing a delivery job.
"Why should they get to live it up in a place like New York doing such lowly jobs on wages so much higher than around here in bumfuck nowhere?".
Yep. But mentioning the empty housing and the fact we could house every homeless man, woman and child in this country is apparently “communist”/“socialist.”.
This is old school democrat beliefs— remember that the Dems used to be a pro-union party and organized labor until the last 15-20 years was very, very anti-immigrant because immigration decreases wages in the industries they take jobs in.
They can demonize the community, browbeat them into accepting lower wages while employing millions of them and incite their fanatics to believe that they are ruining the country and only Republicans can stop them. Long story short it's a win win because they get to exploit their labor and score political points with people who don't know anything. From otherwise reasonable people I still hear how immigrants are somehow bad for the economy when they statistically receive less in services than they pay in taxes while also fixing our labor shortage issue. They won't admit it but a lot of them are racist and are more than willing to jump at any chance to not like immigrants because of something other than them just being racist.
Also, historically many black people really, really don’t like Hispanics or Asians (and a lot of Hispanics and Asians didn’t like black people).