This may be a little late, but I think what adds to Joseph Smith's success is that he didn't stop with the Book of Mormon, but also published other scriptures, such as the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price, the first being essentially a guidebook of "modern revelation" to the Mormon community with alternating hyper-specific commandments as well as lofty and expansive theology, and the latter being similar to the Book of Mormon in being claimed to be ancient scripture, with even more lofty and unorthodox theology, claiming to be further revelation from ancient prophets such as Moses, Abraham, and Enoch. And in the Doctrine and Covenants case, more scripture was added to it even after Joseph Smith's death (albeit less than a half-dozen passages).
Since you pointed out the disconnect between Joseph Smith's background and the achievement that is the Book of Mormon, has there been speculation that it was ghostwritten?
To my knowledge, there is no serious scholarly suspicion that it was ghostwritten. The official LDS version of events is that Joseph translated what was written on the Golden Plates through miraculous means, and a scribe wrote down what he said.
So, in short, the Book of Mormon developed a highly elaborate theology and told lots of stories that appealed to 19th-century Americans. Regardless of its religious impact, it was a major literary accomplishment. Among many other things, people of the time loved that it explained the origins of Native Americans as one of the Lost Tribes. It set the grand story of salvation firmly in the American context. It even said that Jesus preached in America after his resurrection. The Book of Mormon formed the bedrock of the church Smith established, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons).
The short answer is yes. There were others. The longer answer is that the Book of Mormon was actually pretty unique not just in its lenh, but also in its broad vision, depth/coherence, and impact in forming a community.
As a skeptical outsider, the language of the Book of Mormon reads to me as being mostly appropriate to a 19th-century person with a prodigious memory, extraordinary imagination, and a keen ear for King James biblical phrasing. In short, it sounds a LOT like the Old Testament stories of the King James Bible--which is exactly what someone like Joseph Smith would have heard at church growing up. It's really the scope of his theological universe, his coherent vision, and the book's enduring impact that's so impressive, rather than its literary style.