Well fair enough, Xerxes had his entire empire to levy forces. But I find generally even city states are able to muster huge amounts of forces. For example at the battle of Asculum between Pyrrhus of Epirus and Rome (pre-empire) was 40000 vs 40000, much larger than what we see in the medieval periods usually.
Sure, you can argue that ancient wars were more often more intense, but the difference is one of degree, rather than anything fundamental. You're the one splitting hairs by trying to rigidly separate these endlessly varied flavors of pre-modern warfare.
Yeah, we know that military systems in Europe changed between the ancient and medieval period; nobody is disputing that (except the bit about justifications for war/objectives). What's being asked is why they changed to something that is seemingly less effective at mustering manpower, when we agree that a huge army of ancient style heavy infantry militia would have likely overpowered most medieval armies. Flemish militia heavy infantry reduced the chivalry of France to dung and worms at Courtrai in 1302; the antique style had lost none of its effectiveness. I'm legitimately certain there were very good reasons medieval armies were smaller, since I don't believe whole peoples stick with less effective systems for hundreds of years, but I think the reasons you've given are inadequate to explain the shift.
Regarding political objectives, I have a hard time accepting those of the medieval period were so much more limited as to cause a fundamental shift in military systems. I don't want to downplay the stakes for ancient warfare, but at least in the Greek and Roman spheres, defeat didn't usually mean the conquest and destruction of whole civilizations; most wars were about territory, and an overwhelming defeat might mean the loss of an independent foreign policy, but only until the loser regained enough strenh to renegotiate. There was also a lot of predatory warfare in antiquity, very much analogous to the 'sacking and ransom' objective you use to characterize the Middle Ages.