I definitely want to inform them, but some are saying to sue the homeowner/landlord too. I guess I could inform them, and if they do nothing, then sue? Thats what I need to figure out.
After read through all the comments now, I’m not necessarily opposed to suing the landlord if that’s what need to be done, but they might be helpful and evict or threaten to evict the owners if they don’t pay our vet bills. Or even provide us with their renters insurance. If none of that plays out, then we’ll go that route. I at least want to give them a chance to help make things right.
I went over the details in other comments on this post. I didn’t talk about it in my main post because the focus was mainly about contacting the landlord. But yes, both my dogs were leashed and were being walked on public street. My husband was walking back to our home and the other dogs were in the owners front yard and ran out into the street and attacked both of our dogs, but only one of my dogs was bit. The owner was outside with their dogs and witnessed the whole thing. My dog needed to be rushed to the emergency vet because it was a weekend and the regular vet office was closed. My dogs injuries were pretty bad and he needed to be treated right away. We hand delivered a letter with pictures of my dogs injuries and a copy of the vet bill to the owners asking for them to compensate the bill. My home office window faces their home. I saw them get their mail and it’s been almost a week with no payment. We gave them our phone numbers and email addresses and they have not contacted us.
That was my thought too, but I didn’t know if they’d be afraid we’d sue them (the landlord), which we’re not, our issue is with the dog owners. It’s also possible that the landlord isn’t aware of the type of dogs the owners have (pit mixes).
If you tell the landlord there is a chance you may get them evicted, and with filing an aggressive dog report there are also good chances that their dogs will be put down. I totally understand suing them for vet bills, but if you get them evicted you could potentially be ruining their lives here. They will be on the hook for vet bills and trying to find a new place to live (they won’t get approved to rent anywhere else with an eviction on their records, and even if they did they probably couldn’t manage a new security deposit and moving costs on top of paying your vet bills). We’re talking about the possibility of them being homeless, broke, and having to watch their dogs be put down all within the span of a month or two. My advice would be to tell them of your intentions to tell the landlord and give them another opportunity to settle the matter privately before doing that. Not that you don’t have every right to tell them, but just for the sake of taking the high road.