The amount they were actually given was probably closer to @ $50-$100M. "for management-services/fees". Yeah, right.
Yep. Every time I make the point about how corrupt American politics is I get loads of down votes. I don't care. Eventually the suckers will get it. There's a public database that let's you sort, filter, look up any one to see how much in bribes they are taking and from whom. I'm supposed to be mad over Trump and his brats getting paid off, but when Nancy Pelosi raises a billion dollars I'm supposed to think nothing of it? Like all those corporate donations over the years weren't bribes?
Almost everyone in Congress is on the take. Why should I care about the exact dollar amount and source? You either are corrupt and accept bribes or you don't. There is no gray area here.
You're trying to draw a distinction where there is none. There are not shades of bribery or caveats to it. If you take money and that influences your legislative or executive duty, you are corrupt. Do you really sleep better at night knowing your local Congress critter only took money from Pfizer or Microsoft or Lockheed Martin instead of Saudi Arabia? Your representatives are for sale, and they don't care who is paying the bills even if you do.
OK that's very bad. Throw him in jail. But he's not an elected official, and selling military secrets probably doesn't affect the average American like inflation, expensive drugs needed to stay alive, lack of health care accessibility, poor wages, garbage schools, lack of worker rights, and I could make an even longer list, but that is just some of the reasons why corporate bribery of our elected officials is as bad as anything because it has real detrimental impact on 332 million people.
Why do I care about Hunter Biden? He does not work for the government nor does he hold public office. He is a regular citizen, so if he has broken some law, bring charges, give him his due process, and incarcerate if convicted as the law dictates. This is silly right winger whataboutism.