I have a follow up question: You said that Mycenaean Greece was most likely never under a central rule of the King of Mycenae. However in the Iliad King Agammemnon of Mycenae calls or demands (I am not quite sure right now) for military aid by the other Kings of Greece in his campaign against Troy. How likely would it have been, that they would have followed such a call by the King of Mycenae? Or is it impossible to tell?
Thanks for that in depth answer. It is certainly an interesting read and I didn´t know about the oath of Tyndaraeus as the binding factor of the greek kingdoms.
The oath of Tyndaraeus isn't mentioned so much as implied in the Iliad, by the way. As a point of interest, near the start of the epic poem, when Achilles is arguing with Agamemnon, he points out that he followed Agamemnon as a favour, chairis (Il. 1.152-160; transl. Lattimore):
There are also heads of organization that are referred to as basileis (singular: basileus). In Homer and among other writers of the historic era, the word basileus means "king". But in the Mycenaean tablets the term is used in a different way, mainly heads of organizations (say, like guilds). Basileus \-- written in Linear B as qa-si-re-u \-- is also used to denote local chieftains. So the interesting thing is that after the Bronze Age, the term basileus ascends in importance while the wanax of old disappears, and is only preserved in Homer in standard phrases like anax andron ("lord of the people", i.e. Agamemnon), and reserved to denote deities. This development is interesting: consult Ancient Greece From the Mycenaean Palaces to the Age of Homer (2006), edited by Sigrid Deger-Jalkotzy and Irene S. Lemos, if you want to learn more.
I'm also replying to myself to add a reference that is worthwhile: the book Rethinking Mycenaean Palaces II (2007) edited by Michael Galaty and William Parkinson. (The "II" in the title refers to the fact that this is a "revised and expanded" version of the original book.) The book collects a number of papers (chapters) that deal with the Mycenaean palaces, including the political organization of the palaces and the sociopolitical structures of the Mycenaean.
Anyway, as far as the political organization of the Mycenaeans is concerned, a good strating point is Oliver Dickinson's "What conclusions might be drawn from the archaeology of Mycenaean civilisation about political structure in the Aegean?" It's published as a chapter in the book From Lugal.GAL to wanax. Kingship and Political Organisation in the Late Bronze Age Aegean (2019). He was kind enough to upload the article to , so you can read it for free. The book itself should also enter Open Access soon.