Respectfully you may want to consider this not impossible scenario. Your ex wife who honestly believes that you are capable of monitoring her, having her property damaged and whatever else files for a restraining order. Your access to your child is cut off until the first hearing because you have raised no prior allegations against her competency and she says you abused them . While you are under the restraining order because of her illness your ex wife believes that you are still capable of monitoring them, having them followed or that you have bribed or tricked law enforcement, teachers or others into aiding you against her. The risks are now high that she runs to protect the child from someone she honestly believes is a danger to them. You are behaving as if she is rational beyond this one weird issue. It doesn't work like that. Your child is in danger. Your custody and relationship with your child is in danger.
Document everything and sue to amend your custody agreement to ensure she can’t endanger your kid. Every accusation, dates and times and any documentation that disproves them.
That might look like filing for emergency custody and full custody with supervised visits only until she’s willing to see a professional and get help. Ask them about getting a protective order that bars her from communicating with you for reasons other than co-parenting.
If you cannot talk directly to your ex-wife about her behaviour and that for your child's sake you need her to be healthy and present, get in touch with Adult Protective Services in your area and explain your concerns. You should be able to speak to a social worker without giving her personal information, and "siccing them on her". Explain that you know an adult who is clearly undergoing severe and distressing mental illness and you would like to know about resources to get her help.
If I understand, your goals here are 1. Maintain your child's relationship with mom 2. Protect yourself from criminal charges/orders 3. Get medical/psychiatric help for Mom you may be interested in my advice.
Yes, you should tell them this person is a parent and that at this time they seem to be parenting well and effectively, however, you must acknowledge to yourself that you really do not know how well she is parenting when you are not there. At 3 a child will not have the same kind of normal-meter as adults and will not be able to recognize let alone report to you the more subtle signs of a mental break.
Hopefully somehow you will get some advice that you can use to effectively convice your ex to get help and follow through with treatment without involving law enforcement against you or any negative events for your child. Best of luck.