Thank you for providing such a wonderful, thorough answer. It really sheds greater light on how the Magna Carta added to the body of law in its day as well as what the full weight of the words "ancient constitution" was meant to convey.
Magna Carta was hugely important in its day, but not in the way early modern and modern politicians have imagined it. These Truths perhaps overstates how much it was forgotten - it was not obscure for 400 years, more like 200 - but it is essentially correct in arguing that the importance and role of Magna Carta in the imaginations of the US founding fathers was misplaced. At the time, they wanted to restore a select few liberties that Henry I had granted in 1100, but which had lapsed under the reigns of Henry II, Richard I, and finally king John. As a guarentee that these liberties would be respected, they enabled the nobility to cut the king off at the purse strings. That is all the 1217 treaty was trying to do.
As I hope I've demonstrated, it's enduring symbolic power was integral to what it was. Although it would be incorrect to describe it as the beginning of some long unbroken path toward civil liberties as many early modern and modern politicians have done, it was a symbol of what we would now describe as constitutional monarchy. Edward Coke elevated this importance to the level of a myth, and a symbol of the Anglo-Saxons rather than the 13th century nobility. But this image of Magna Carta as the basis of freedom under law endured, especially in the US and in the UK to a lesser extent. Traces of the Whig interpretation of Magna Carta's place in English history can still be seen today; the former Prime Minister Gordon Brown wanted the date of its first sealing to be a national holiday to celebrate some unbroken thread of constitutionalism from 1215 to the present day which... is a somewhat generous interpretation of its importance. His successor David Cameron spoke of it in similar terms. The founding fathers of the US thought of it this way too and the Magna Carta memorial in Runnymede, which was put up by the US, describes it as a 'symbol of freedom under law'.
This is a watered down mythologisation of its importance. It meant freedom, sure, but not to you and me. It meant freedom to the nobility from the worst excesses of royal power, especially John's outrageous financial penalites and inheritance fees that he used to trap the nobility in debt. To interpret it as anything more than that is to project the importance it has had back onto the original document - nobody in 1215 was thinking 'One day, this is going to play a role in leading to the House of Commons and elected MPs and democracy' - but there's a tendency to see it that way. A particularly common argument among modern historians is that, though Magna Carta did turn out to have long lasting consequences for English law and the liberties of those under it, this was not the thinking at the time.
Would it be historians like Starkey that are you referring to when you mention those modern historians that maybe try to ascribe more to the Magna Carta than should be?
I think I remember David Starkey saying this much, but I thought he still tried to connect it to some larger consequence, like it was a stepping stone perhaps in, as you say, leading to a constitutional monarchy and therefore some control over personal liberties, but that sounds more like a coincidence than reality.