They are in violation of the UN Charter which they signed in 1991. It specifically requires ALL nations to never seize and annex territory by force of arms. First Crimea and now the Eastern Provinces of Ukraine, meanwhile bombing clearly civilian targets in Central and Western Ukraine. The UN General Assembly should expell Russia completely, not just from the Security Council, after all the USSR was one of the permanent members not Russia. Russia wasn't even a separate entity of the UN until 1991, whereas Ukraine SSR was a founding charter member of the UN and merely changed its name to Ukraine without the SSR moniker.
Russia is clearly the external aggressor seizing territory and annexing it permanently from Ukraine which is clearly forbidden by the UN Charter.
Actually in removal of Russia from the Security Council Russia doesn't get a veto vote in the UNSC. If Russia keeps threatening first use of Nuclear weapons, even tactical weapons, they will be removed from the UNSC.
Of course the UN security council can always be dissolved and reformed without Russia, that is something that can technically happen. Just break the UN and reform it again, you will see how many nations will rejoin United Nations 2 (not that many).
Russia was the recognized successor state and inherited the Soviet Union debts and treaties, that argument doesn't really go anywhere logically and you have to really put logic in a jar to believe that trite.
Besides, Russia inherited the USSR’s treaties and responsibilities, so with your logic you would let Russia get out of dozens of treaties and agreements it has. You’d make Russia an even loser nuclear cannon than it already is.
While it sounds good in principle, I think the LAST thing we want to do is cut Russia out of the global picture. Lines of communication, even with Putin’s lap dog, is critical. Having them be shut in only makes it harder to try and deescalate or get information (even though they spew crap they slip up plenty and let us in on what/how they are thinking, it helps). Feeling cornered will bring out the worst in anyone, especially a leader who has Nukes.