Very interesting. Was there any combination of territories considered that wouldn't have created a direct conflict with a formal ally of the USA? Could the Dutch East Indies alone (supposing the US didn't launch a blockade from the Philippines and Guam), have satisfied Imperial Japan's thirst for natural resources?
The short answer: The Japanese weighed whether they could seize the territories they were after in Southeast Asia and the Pacific, like the Dutch East Indies, Malaya, Singapore, etc., without attacking the Americans and hoping to keep them out of the war. The decision was that Japan could not afford to bypass the Philippines and hope the US would not use its military forces there to interfere with Japanese operations and interdict supply lanes. The Philippines would have to be attacked, meaning the United States would be drawn into the war.
Thus, was it a foregone conclusion for Japan that the invasion of South East Asia would require war with the United States? The Navy thought so, both for practical and political reasons. The Imperial Japanese Navy had built itself around fighting the United States and war with the United States was practically a matter of faith. The Army on the other hand at least wanted to consider the prospect of war against the British and Dutch without war with the United States. However, such a proposal was completely unacceptable to the Navy, and if the Army wanted the Navy to agree with the Southward Advance, it had to give in, and accept that war against the British and Dutch meant war with the United States as well.
The occupation of the rest of French Indochina was in many ways a compromise between the Army and Navy, satisfying the Navy's demand that the outbreak of war be delayed while also providing the Army with some movement as part of the Southward Advance. However, there was still little agreement between the Army and Navy over what the next steps would be following the occupation of Indochina. Germany had invaded the Soviet Union in the summer of 1941, and the opportunity presented there had rekindled the hopes of some in the Army for a war with the Soviet Union, presenting additional time pressure on the Navy for when the Southward Advance could begin in earnest. The final details of the Southward Advance were not truly set in stone until the American asset freeze and oil embargo hit and Japan was fully committed to advancing southward.