Very interesting! I only have a basic sense of the various strands of Buddhist thought, but I do know that Tibetan and Zen Buddhism are the two at the top of popular consciousness in the US. Are these also the schools with the most converts in the West, or are they just well-known? And, relatedly, does the popularity of certain schools of thought in the West correspond to significant immigrant groups? Your answer mentioned Zen Buddhism a lot, and I realized that traditional practitioners of Zen are also probably over-represented in the US (especially California) compared to other schools thanks to significant Japanese immigration. Was that the nexus through which Buddhism spread, or was it more through a general interest in the exotic/Orientalism in Western intellectual circles?
So when westerners looked to Asia to find interesting literature and actual institutional existence of meditation-based Buddhism Chan/Zen is what they found due to is ubiquity.
When people did travel to Asian to practice meditation-based Buddhism it was typically places that explicitly welcomed westerners and these centers were usually happy to have them. If you were (or are) a Buddhist teacher that had deep spiritual aspiration, there is a good chance you would be disappointed in lack of aspiration in many of the locals who were practicing with you. If you look at Japanese Zen for example, there are very few "training monasteries" were meditation is actually practiced. The vast majority of the young men who are enrolled and living at these monasteries are not there for reasons of religious or spiritual aspiration. They are there because they are the first sons of a temple family and they are expected to take over and run the rural temple they grew up at when their father retires. In order to get their priest certificate one of the steps is that they needed to spend one to three years at one of these monasteries. Its more a rite of passage and a feat of endurance than anything else. So when westerners with a burning spiritual aspiration started turning up, some Zen teachers were ecstatic and welcomed them enthusiasm. Generally word would get around to which teachers were enthusiastic about teaching westerners and in many cases those monasteries would end up being primarily populated by westerners.
Western converts tend to focus on meditation, to the absolute exclusion of everything else the Buddhadharma has to offer, so it is difficult to say that the majority of western converts are "more serious." Their practice is just different, and their understanding just as limited as your average Asian lay practitioner that only engages in a more ritualistic manner, with only the minority of both cohorts actually being 'serious' and engaging in the dharma in a more complete manner.
While this type of Buddhist practice certainly existed, it was not and is not the normative experience of people who are actually engaged with the religion in its Asian homeland. Depending on the particular country, the average Buddhist center will likely be a priest's family's home, a temple that largely functions as a community center, a place of devotional worship or even a museum-like tourist attraction. What you don't see hardly any of is people meditating.