I hate this framing. The magazine capacity limitations were an afterthought of this bill. The REAL danger in it is allowing Oregon’s notoriously racist state police force to have complete control over who is issued the required gun licenses with no oversight or authority to keep them in check.
When the Gestapo drags me and all of my trans sisters to the gulag, I’ll be sure to mention that one time my opinion was close to an NRA talking point. I’m sure that’ll get me off the hook.
I'll go with that. So to say 'you used to be able to own a large one of those, but now you can only own a small one', that to me is definitely limiting. And if the smaller one is overall less effective, then yes it's starting to undermine. And I think encroach applies also- when something used to be broadly permitted and is now restricted, that seems like encroachment to me.
The Supreme Court also limited which limitations can be placed on that right. They have said that it is not permissible to ban weapons in common lawful use. That would include the AR-15 and it's variants (which are, together, one of the most popular guns in the nation). That would also include the standard capacity 30-round magazine that is the default magazine for such a rifle (generally you get one free when you buy the gun).
I'll also point out that up until the mid 1900s, fully automatic weapons (machineguns) like the Thompson submachine gun ('Tommy Gun') were available mail order, shipped to your door, with no background check.
Gun control, of the 'for public safety nobody should own ____' variety, is entirely a product of the 1900s. Previous to that the only gun control laws were there to disarm certain populations, not ensure public safety.
By convention, for centuries, all the State had to say to justify any firearm restriction is, _the State has an interest in reducing crime_. It is not necessary to prove the restriction would reduce crime, indeed it is not even necessary to argue the point. It is merely necessary to assert State's interest.