Ha? Jews lived in the are for thousands of years. It was Muslim invaders who occupied the land and oppressed / cleansed Jews for hundreds of years.
Jews are Middle Eastern and indigenous to the land. This has been Jewish belief since expulsion. The reestablishment of Israel is one of the greatest acts of decolonization of our time. The amount of time spent in diaspora is no longer relevant.
When the British Mandate was expiring, this was no longer the case. Hence, there was a need to partition the land. Don't act like Jews simply showed up in 1881 and started forcefully evicting Arabs from their homes. Much of that land was purchased from absentee landlords.
The point being, undoing the reestablishment of Israel is not a feasible option. While many are trying to come up with realistic solutions to create a lasting and just solution, complaining about 1948 does absolutely nothing. Anti-Zionists need to drill this in their heads: violence against Israel hasn't worked, boycotts against Israel have not worked, and social activism against Israel has not worked. If you are serious about a just solution, recognize and accept that Israel is not going anywhere and work towards peace.
Even if this is your position, how is this relevant to a conversation about how to solve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict? Israelis are leading the world in many tech and medical sectors, and its economy continues to grow despite negligible resistance from boycotts. Even countries with antisemitic populations that have been at war with Israel have since normalized ties and commerce because they need Israeli tech. Israelis are being productive, while anti-Zionists whine on the internet, hoping that with enough whining, Israel will disappear somehow.
The people around Israel are mad a bunch of foreigners forced to country into their region and pushed the Muslims out, and the Israelis want a home and it's really too late at this point to find a another spot.
You say the area shouldn’t have been divided, except that the Arabs living there were extremely belligerent towards Jews, and there were already riots and attacks on Jewish civilians before the partitions were even set. Your solution is essentially keeping the Jews as an oppressed group, except now by Arabs instead of Europeans. Good work, genius.