Whether your subtenancy falls under the RTA or not is a question of fact, not formality. You've already confirmed that your subtenancy is for a fixed period, which is one arm; does your subtenant share possession with anyone who is on the lease?
Say in the situation that my sublet does not leave, am I still responsible after my lease expires? I'm thinking that I will just take the loss and lose this month's rent and pay any cleaning fees.
Just to be clear, I've already paid every single month's rent until the end of my tenancy. As per my lease, that is technically my only obligation (I'm not sure in what capacity I am responsible for my sublet). I just assumed that once my lease ends, since I have paid the rent and my possessions are not in that apartment, I can simply leave and if my sublet does not leave it is then my landlord's problem.
Otherwise, if your landlord must evict you, then the LTB is almost certain to order you to pay rent pro-rated by the day until you and your subtenant are removed, or until you return possession. The same is true if you must evict your subtenant.
If you did not get your landlord's permission to sublet, then they can evict you and your subtenant.
You are responsible for your sublet as a landlord, and to your landlord as a tenant even while the unit is sublet. (In fact, if your sublet refuses to pay the rent, if you do not make good, your landlord can issue _you_ an N4 notice and evict both of you.) You cannot make your subtenant your landlord's direct problem, by any means, unless your landlord agrees to it: you have to deal with this, as you took them on.
The property manager is aware that my lease is ending, and he is aware of my sublet situation. My last month's rent has already been paid to the landlord.
If you can work something out with the landlord, then your obligations will be as per that agreement.
Have you already given notice to your landlord that you are ending your tenancy? If not, it might be worth holding off until you get your subtenant out, so that you are not also evicted for failing to vacate at the end of your tenancy. (To be clear, the end of your lease cannot automatically end your tenancy.) If you have, so it goes; evictions are an annoyance, but the worst risk is that you'll owe rent until your subtenant is actually removed.