I'm a California employment law attorney. The estimate given here is extremely generous. The State's equal pay act doesn't cover autism/disability as a protected class, which means you won't be able to viably sue for the comparator rates of your colleagues.
If there is a good way to show that they paid you this little only because you have autism, you could potentially sue them for discrimination. If it is true that each person really individually negotiates their own pay rate, this might be difficult to prove. But, if, as another poster said, they give general raises to most people but not to you, it should be relatively easy to prove. You should talk to Jack, and either talk to your other co-workers, or ask Jack to, to figure out which it is. You would need to hire an employment lawyer to do that. You could look at some disability advocate organizations in your area, they might know of lawyers who are good at this sort of suit. They might be able to help you find a lawyer even if you don't bring a lawsuit. There is also an employment bar association, and perhaps a disability one, in your area, who can reccomend lawyers.
To locate an attorney, visit the website of you county bar association, and look for the Lawyer Referral or Lawyer Finder page. Fill out your contact information and they'll call you back. Explain the situation and ask for a referral to 2-3 lawyers with experience representing employees in fair pay disputes. (They may charge $0- $40 to refer you to three lawyers but it's worth while- it's important to get qualified legal representation.).
2. You perform lower than most, and you are being kept on the team because people know you, they like you personally, want to do you a favor, are Ok with someone taking a seat there that doesn't do as well as others etc. But, you should still ask for a raise.
Jack said that you are supposed to negotiate a raise every year. Can you ask him, when that happens, does the company come and talk to the employee, in an evaluation or something similar, or does the employee go out of their way to ask the company? I would ask Jack for the details of how this kind of thing works. If it's the case that it's something the company does themselves, and they have chosen not to do it for you, that is likely to be against the law for them (but again, I can't say more clearly without knowing where you are).