One of the things you can look at is the publisher. Is the book published by a well know publishing house (harper collins, random house, simon and Schuster etc) or by a university press (the big ivy leagues, Cambridge, pretty much any R1 university or state university flagship school will have their own publishing house). If so, its probably not by white supremacists. These publishers have robust peer-review and editing standards.
For endnotes / footnotes / references i prefer a more robust approach from the publisher. I look for notation in the text (superscript numbers, usually) that indicate immediately that something is not the author's original idea. I look for page numbers in the citations so I can trace the reference back if i want. I look to see that the author is using primary sources in addition to secondary sources. This is, however, standard for academic books. Im not as familiar with pop history publishing, but i would still aim for these things. This is the professional standard. Theres this idea that you dont need robust citations in a popular history book because the average reader wont engage with them, but i honestly think this needs to change.
If its done by a small, independent publisher or self published that might merit some further investigation. There are small academic publishers that do more niche things (small christian presses often publish sources in translation that are hard to get otherwise). But its more likely that small small publishers will only have a specific thing they publish, and sometimes that "thing" has a sinister agenda, so be on the look out for that.
One of the things i like to do is look at the back of the book. Are there quotes from reviewers? If so, what do they say, but also who is saying them? Are the reveiwers fellow academics or part of a professional association related to the topic? Are they celebrities? Are they randos? Potitical talking heads? You can evaluate how much the book fits within the scholarly debate from this.
Obviously it's too much to ask to do this for every citation, just check like 2-3 that seem important to the authors argument. If they have one bad citation in the sample that usually means you really need to check all the ones that seem important, if you see that they used shitty citations multiple times, well.... you probably have junk science on your hand.
since this is a more general question about academia, I hope I don't break the rules by giving you some rough guidelines how to spot misleading citations in rough order of effort required:
How would you recommend detecting if a book has an improper or misleading use of citations? I'm not a historian, but I've seen several junk history books that bombard the reader with excessive footnotes and citations to create an illusion of authority. They might also use outdated materials, take quotes out of context, or cite works that are fringe or heterodox without disclaimer. Is there a practical way for a casual reader to pick up on this kind of thing?