This is a pretty sharp question, particularly your distinction between military practice and imaginative military theory. Theoretical writings made a pretty big genre starting from the late 16th century, and continued to proliferate into the 17th century, and many of the oft-repeated axioms of 17th century warfare tend to be cribbed from these theoretical tracts instead of drawn from observed military practice.
Again, I'd say yes, but with some caveats. I've talked about and a word or two about it would be pertinent there. Essentially, prior to the mass mobilizations of citizenry in the world wars, the kind of basic training we come to expect, as a sort of comprehensive school of soldiery and discipline, was mostly unheard of. Training might consist of some familiarization or a basic rundown of a company's best practices, but since the 16th and 17th century masculine culture in western Europe tended to produce martially capable men, they likely . Getting used to marching, eating very little, doing hard labor and guard shifts and patrolling and looting and getting sick was a byproduct of army life, and no amount of training could accustom someone to it without having done it. But within this structure of marching and digging and everything else, some commanders took the time to train on the job.
The thing is that, even if you go down a list of battles won by the use of archers, you don't actually find a lot of fire at ranges much past 80 or 100 yards. Long range volleys might be used to harass or break up approaching formations, but the intent wasn't that anyone would "snipe" any particular target, it was that the weight of the volley would itself be disruptive and fatiguing to weather.
I recall a history lecture where the professor said that massed volleys of fire were required because of the inaccuracy of early firearms, which were not rifled, making individual aim was not practical at any but the closest distances. Do you have any thoughts on that assertion? Didn't combat archery also use massed volleys of fire on command?
Early on in gun technology, isn't it well-accepted that a skilled bowmen could easily outshoot a musket? They could fire faster, more accurately, and they were similarly deadly, the only downside was that it took years of training and hunting to become so proficient with an arrow, but you could train someone to fire a musket in formation in a matter of months.