If the 16 year old insurance company offers you a settlement please ensure that you have spoken to a personal injury lawyer. Insurance companies like to low ball you and close the case asap. I was hit by another driver in 2015 and still waiting for my case to be settled. Be aware it might take years to get a settlement. Do your homework beforehand. Sorry for your loss.
I'm so sorry about your loss. Please take care of yourself and take the time to grieve and be with those who support you most. Get a therapist or join a support group as this was so sudden. Allow your attorneys to take care of the rest. Again, my condolences.
Such an unfortunate event, I'm very sorry for your loss. I know it will not ever bring back your mother, but you should certainly consult with a personal injury attorney to get as much compensation as you can. It will pay for things such as debts for her estate, funeral expenses, and so forth. I'm not sure how old you are, but if you are minor it could help with your schooling costs as well.
Depending on the types of assets your mother had, you may need to consult with a probate attorney as well. Did she have a will? If she had a house, car, investment accounts, etc, those will need to be distributed according to the will or the Texas statutory scheme.
Lastly, if this is the 16 year old's first offense and assuming he was sober, I think the likelihood that he sees significant jail time is low, I'm sorry to say. I'm an attorney (not in Texas) and the last time I had a vehicular homicide case, the offender got 6 years, but he was intoxicated and it was not his first offense.
In Texas, a person 15 years of age or older can be referred to adult court if a judge determines it is appropriate, and if they are charged with felonies of 2nd degree, 3rd degree, or "state jail felonies".
It will not be satisfying for you, but the greatest likelihood is that the driver will receive a juvenile sentence of probation.
And in general, it's not the sort of willful, intentionally malicious act that gets a minor prosecuted as though they were an adult. Those are typically violent crimes like rape, murder, kidnapping, and arson.
OP's desire to see the driver punished is entirely understandable. But it is unlikely to be severe, much less satisfying.