With over 350 years of history, Quakers have some aspects that are laudable by contemporary standards, and others that are morally questionable. The three areas where Quakers are probably most praised are anti-slavery work, women’s rights, and their commitment to peace. In each they had real successes, but also moments where Quaker attitudes now seem quite regressive. Part of the issue here is that Quakerism is by no means a unified movement but had different branches that often took a variety of approaches to these topics.
Good observation. I mostly do U.S. religious history, so I tend to focus on Anglo-American Quakers, which is perhaps a limitation.
In the American Revolution, Quakers were often seen as pro-British due to their opposition to the conflict. Because Quakers also had a transatlantic religious organization, they also wanted to keep strong ties with London. A small number of Quakers schismed away from the rest, dubbing themselves the “Free Quakers” and fighting for the patriots.
Yet even though they were opposed to slavery, some Quakers were hostile to the broader abolitionist movement. These Quakers feared being politically connected with non-Quakers and did not want to be associated with people from other religious traditions which had paid clergy. A number of schisms occurred within Quakerism over abolitionism. The Orthodox Quaker Indiana Yearly Meeting, for example, briefly split in 1842, with the side favoring more involvement with the abolitionist movement labeling themselves “Anti-Slavery Friends.”.
During the American Civil War, many Quakers felt that their commitment to opposing slavery was just as critical as their commitment to peace. As a result many young Quaker men joined the Union army, and Quaker meetings were often reluctant to disown them. Sometimes meetings officially disowned them, and then almost quickly allowed them back with a token apology. This greatly lessened the strictness of the Quaker testimony against war.
Some Quakers also tended to see the conflicts they fought in as exceptions to the “rule” of the testimony against war. Richard Nixon, for example, was a birthright Quaker from the evangelical part of the denomination and served in the Navy in World War II. In Vietnam, he argued that U.S. military action served the greater goal of peace, so was ultimately consistent with his Quakerism.
Quakers maintained a “testimony against war” and practiced what we now might call pacifism, citing the Biblical injunction to love their enemies. This could be extremely controversial depending on the circumstances. Quakers were often accused of disloyalty for their views.
Quakers are hardly morally perfect. In hindsight, Quaker inaction on the segregation of Quaker schools and their treatment of Native Americans are quite lamentable. They were also not always consistent in their commitment to women’s equality. That said, Quakers moved to forbid slavery before other religious groups and had women in ministry over two hundred years before that became common.
Quakers were not initially opposed to slavery; there were Quaker slaveowners in both the United States and the British-controlled Caribbean. By the mid-eighteenth century, Quaker meetings generally had moved to encourage their members to free their slaves and prohibited the buying and selling of slaves. It took until the 1770s for some Quaker yearly meetings, the main ecclesiastical organizations of Quakerism, to make slave-owning an offense punishable by disownment (the Quaker version of excommunication).
With regards to Quaker relations with Native Americans, it's also worth noting that like many other Christian denominations in the United States, the Quakers engaged in running re-education boarding schools for Native children. In the 19th and 20th centuries, Quakers ran over 30 schools for assimilating Native children into white culture. In addition to wanting to educate children to read and write, Quaker supporters of boarding schools were active proponents of the culture assimilation model and of cutting Native students off from their home cultures. For example, Susan Wood, a teacher at the Quaker Tunesassa Indian Boarding School in New York wrote in 1853 that.
Palmer, Paula, "Quaker Indian Boarding Schools: Facing Our History and Ourselves", Friends Journal \\].
Bosworth, Dee Ann, "American Indian Boarding Schools: An Exploration of Global Ethnic & Cultural Cleansing", Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe \\].
Zemanek, Alysha Danielle, "Indiana School Days: Native American Education at St. Joseph's Indian Normal School and White's Manual Labor Institute", MA thesis at Indiana University \\].