I'm not a socialist, but 1% of the people in America owning 30% of the wealth, or whatever the latest number is, is ridiculous and fucks over the 99%. What rich people, sorry, I mean job creators, don't understand is that if there's no middle class, nobody can buy your stuff. Greed is evil.
We could start by investigating offshore accounts, for one. It's too big for me to figure out, though. And flat tax was brought up in the 90s but it had issues as well. A better corporate tax structure with minimal loopholes could be helpful.
- make the tax system more progressive (the rich have gotten the LION share of tax breaks in recent decades - reverse them).
Progressive tax on all incomes. Why do we treat any incomes different from any others? Income is income. As soon as you start to differentiate which income gets taxed less or more, you open the gate for the low tax rate bullshit shenanigans of the wealthy.
On a slight tangent though, for collecting revenue from the wealthiest Americans, probably the most efficient tax to do so would be a federal since:
So if the argument's about progress and innovation, globally that's been more prevalent in the modern world than it that it has been in any point previous. Likewise if the argument is that billionaires needs to disappear in order to facilitate proper innovation and socio-economic development, then how does that argument respond to the advances in other jurisdictions outside of the United States that have seen those gains in spite of the presence of billionaires? Countries in the Baltics and places like the Czech Republic and Slovakia for instance went from emerging post Soviet/ex-Eastern Bloc economies without billionaires in 1990-1991 to having hundreds collectively over the course of 30 years and still saw significant wage growth and socio-economic advancement.
I don't see how this sort of rhetoric actually translates to a productive or evidence driven policy discussion. It's an angsty populist rallying cry, but it doesn't lead to tangible results of any kind, nor does it actually address the problems with the U.S or make an argument that's objectively quantifiable or evidence driven.