Democratic Peace Theory should first and foremost be understood as a theory of politics and international relations, not a historical statement of fact. Its principles don't actually claim that war between two liberal democracies is impossible - rather, it exists to qualify and explain a clear statistical outlier: The fact that liberal democracies don't seem to go to war against each other (or at least not unless under highly unusual circumstances), and then seeks to explain why this may be so.
However! The reason I mentioned above that DPT is a political theory and not a statement of historical fact is because there are in fact several examples of wars between countries we would call liberal democracies, though crucially I think that these broadly serve to reinforce the political theory (the exception that proves the rule), despite denying DPT advocates the pure historical truth of the claim.
So, the short answer is that no, in my view, neither of those conflicts would constitute good rebuttals to DPT as it is classically stated, as they don't fit the usual criteria for countries that are liberal democracies.
I think the short answer to your question is that most scholars wouldn't consider any of the principal actors in your questions to be 'liberal democracies' -- for various reasons, not India, nor Pakistan, nor Armenia, nor Azerbaijan really fit the mold for what Democratic Peace Theory is driving at.
Which brings us back to your question -- while India, Pakistan, Armenia and Azerbaijan can perhaps (though perhaps not) be said to be functioning democracies (Pakistan most questionably amongst these, though really Armenia and Azerbaijan not far behind, and India even still is a very highly flawed democracy), none of them can be said to be liberal in any comparative degree to the usual Democratic Peace Theory suspects.
To run through the Indo-Pakistan wars: I think I'd be a little more generous in classifying India - for all its many flaws, it's probably as stable a democracy as anything outside of what's considered the Western world. But I don't think Pakistan really could meet the classification of being a liberal democracy even under more generous terms. To run through the wars in question:
Finally, even the "war" part gets complicated. Do we mean conflicts between two states? This is the most usual interpretation, but interstate conflict, especially since 1945, has become much rarer for all states, not just democratic ones, and there are a variety of explanations for this. You get into much murkier territory when we take into account things like civil conflicts or insurgencies with foreign support, nonstate conflicts (ie, a conflict in a state between two nonstate actors), or the newer "hybrid wars" (conflicts between states that intentionally involve minimal military action, but do involve some as well as things like cyberattacks and assassinations). Often compilers of databases will impose an arbitrary kill count to define a conflict - a very standard one is 1,000 deaths or more. Which, I guess you have to start somewhere.