It wasn't just those 2. The PA House had been controlled by Rs for a long time, and Dems flipped that too. Maybe it was just because the top of the ticket sucked, or maybe it was more than that.
It likely was the top of the ticket. Their candidates were so bad more voters came out just to vote against them. If they had ran more vanilla candidates, less straight dem ticket voters come out.
The reason Dems won was because they showed up to vote. It's easy math. Conservatives show up every time for every election, but there's fewer of them every year. When non-conservatives vote as often as the GOP, they win every time, in our all-or-nothing election format.
The GOP has been doing that for some time. The voting habits of republicans has been that dems are real bad and anyone in the GOP fold will vote as the party wants.
Well the GOP has no platform. The GOP is interested in power, but they aren't going to just abandon their key crazy points. They can't so they have really no where to go but denial and delusion. For 40 years they have always done the same things. I don't expect that to change.
"For the Roman people conferred the consulship and other great offices of their State on none save those who sought them; which was a good institution at first, because then none sought these offices save those who thought themselves worthy of them,and to be rejected was held disgraceful; so that, to be deemed worthy, all were on their best behaviour. But in a corrupted city this institution grew to be most mischievous. For it was no longer those of greatest worth, but those who had most influence, who sought the magistracies; while all who were without influence, however deserving, refrained through fear. This untoward result was not reached all at once, but like other similar results, by gradual steps. For after subduing Africa and Asia, and reducing nearly the whole of Greece to submission, the Romans became perfectly assured of their freedom, and seemed to themselves no longer to have any enemy whom they had cause to fear. But this security and the weakness of their adversaries led them in conferring the consulship, no longer to look to merit, but only to favour, selecting for the office those who knew best how to pay court to them, not those who knew best how to vanquish their enemies. And afterwards, instead of selecting those who were best liked, they came to select those who had most influence; and in this way, from the imperfection of their institutions, good men came to be wholly excluded.".