Great question. The best study of Japanese pirates (J: wakô; Ch: wokou; K: waegu) available in English is Peter Shapinsky's 2014 book, Lords of the Sea: Pirates, Violence, and Commerce in Late Medieval Japan. He focuses on the pirates that occupied the various islands of the Inland Sea and who became increasing caught up in the "terracentric" concerns of the Japanese unification process in the late sixteenth century, until they disappeared under the heavily regulated policies of the Tokugawa Shogunate. He goes into great detail about how they cooperated with, fought against, manipulated, and were patronized by the land-based powers of the age, including daimyo/warlords.
Unfortunately we don't have useful personal narratives from the point of view of the pirates for really any period in Japanese history. It is worth mentioning that although the Chinese and Koreans were convinced that the pirates that harassed their coastal settlements and that preyed upon merchant vessels (and in many cases demanded protection money in order to not attack) were universally Japanese, all evidence points to multiple, mixed populations of pirates operating in different parts of East Asia, so simply calling these heterogeneous groups "Japanese pirates" is probably ahistorical.
Something to keep in mind about Japanese piracy of this period is that they are usually divided into two distinct groups: those who raided the Japanese seas (called kaizoku), and those who went overseas to raid places like Korea and China and lands further south (called wokou/wakō). The two groups are closely related, but generally the kaizoku like the Murakami pirates of the Seto Inland Sea were content with collecting tolls and running protection rackets within their zones of influence and - in the opinion of Peter Shapinsky - rarely ventured in continental piracy. The wokou, on the other hand, were based on island bases off the continent that not only included Japanese islands like Kyushu and the Goto Islands, but also far-flung places like Ryukyu, Taiwan, and even the Philippines.
Japan's state of civil war surely exacerbated the wokou troubles, since both Chinese and European sources record the denizens of Kyushu seeking fortunes in piracy due to the devastation of war. While we do not have Japanese sources detailing their involvement in wokou activities (as opposed to kaizoku), Chinese sources allege that Wang Zhi was freely recruiting Japanese desperados into his fleets. Wang Zhi not only had the approval of the local daimyo to do business in their ports, but in some cases he was even sponsored by the daimyo. The Hirado domain, which earned a name for itself as the base of the notorious Matsura band of pirates over the centuries, invited Wang Zhi to maintain a residence there. The Ōtomo clan of eastern Kyushu accompanied Wang Zhi's fleet to China where they eventually fought with the Ming army. Both the Matsura of Hirado and the Ōtomo clan had trade relations in mind, since Wang Zhi presented himself as a man of trade, but they must have known about the piratical activities of Wang Zhi's associates. To be sure, the line between trade and piracy was not clearly delineated in Japanese minds, and the Ming imperial court consider private maritime traders the same as pirates anyway.
Roland L Higgins. (1980). "Pirates in Gowns and Caps: Gentry Law-breaking in the Mid-Ming". Ming Studies.
However, the Japanese daimyo were not alone in supporting pirates such as Wang Zhi. Rather, the daimyo were just part of a group of coastal elites that were acting as the pirates' patrons. Just as the Japanese daimyo like Matsura Takanobu benefited from Wang Zhi's presence, Chinese gentry along the coast were profiting off the pirates by sponsoring them in spite of the Ming sea ban. In a way, this patronage on the Chinese side was more insidious, since the Chinese gentry also had political connections, both locally and in Beijing. The sea ban worked in the gentry's favour, as it guaranteed their near-monopoly on the maritime trade when they can easily influence government officials to look the other way. Also, if the pirates became too unruly and started demanding better pay, the gentry could intimidate the pirates by threatening to call in the Ming army.