Either way: about seven thousand years ago the Arabian Peninsula entered a period of serious climatological change: the end of the Last Ice Age led to tremendous amounts fresh water to be dumped into the world's oceans, leading to dramatic shifts in the Indian Ocean's larger ecological character. As a result, rainfall became less and less frequent, and the lush fields and valleys and rivers that once marked the entirety of the Arabian Peninsula began to dry up. The immediate consequence was that the hunter and gatherer communities of the Peninsula were forced to relocate to areas where there was still enough water to provide for their families. These were either located around oases, or more prominently, in the mountainous areas of Southwest Arabia.
The second important change was the domestication of the camel. Now, there are two important species of camel: the of Central Asia, which is recognizable due to its two humps. Then there is the , which is indigenous to the Arabian Peninsula as well as the Sahara desert, and only has a single hump. A truism states that camels carry water in their humps, but it's actually (mostly) fat. It is uncertain when the dromedary camel was domesticated exactly, but it is estimated that this happened around 2000 BCE.
However, that's the ancestor of today's modern camels. It's correct to say that the modern camel's range makes it native to North African (at least horn area) and Arabian areas. The other type of camel is from Central Asia, but should not be confused with this one.
What do you mean camels just for breeding? A camel for breeding just begets more camels whose only purpose is to breed -that makes no sense.
Do you mean camels kept to be bred for the purposes of producing young camels to be used for camel meat?
Meat Camels - more than just meat though. These are the camels bred to be able carry the biggest loads as pack animals, as well as do work pulling like a draft animal. And as the most muscular, if you are going to produce camels for meat, these are the breeds you'd select.
There are many different kinds of camels: some camels are used for riding, others to carry burdens, others just for breeding, and yet others for milk and/or meat. There is actual a part of one of the more common Arabic poems, the , which usually includes a part about the poet's travels, in which he also tends to talk about his camel, too.
Coincidentally, yesterday I was just reading a poem written during and about conflict that arose about a camel during the early years of Islam. Something about a specific camel having been promised as tax, but at time of payment was switched for a lesser camel. This issue later led to armed conflict.