Grant makes some interesting points, but they don't really jive with modern scholarship (or even some scholarship from 150 years ago). To point one, the South absolutely had to please its population and worry about its internal and external politics. The Confederacy relied on states to provide for the "good of the cause," which was frequently a thorn in their side. As an example, North Carolina had abundant supplies of uniforms, but refused to send them to other needy units, instead saving them for their own Tarheels. As the old saying goes, the Confederacy was killed by State's Rights. While not exactly that simple, trying to balance a national government while pushing the idea that state sovereignty was supreme became a no-win scenario. The Confederacy also had to contend politically with its actions in recruitment. There were a number of reasons they excluded from the draft men who held 20 or more slaves, but it certainly did not sit well with the poorer men who didn't have such an option.
Politically in the South, if you were on Jeff Davis's good side, mistakes could be made. (See everything involving Braxton Bragg). If you stepped too far out of the line you could also be in peril of losing position. When Patrick Cleburne first proposed arming slaves and giving them freedom in exchange for Confederate service in 1863, the idea was quashed pretty substantially, and many historians speculate this was the reason he failed to gain higher rank.
Although the South had internal lines (mostly), that really only counts if you actually can move men and supplies within it. The South had far fewer lines of railroad, and by February 1862 (i.e. pretty early in the war), they lost both the Tennessee and the Cumberland Rivers, two vital interior lines. Railroads and Mountains meant the Confederacy being split into the three theaters was largely unable to help the others, save in a few instances. What I mean is, they only held interior lines in a few cases that mattered and could be utilized, while the Union was able to systematically weaken those lines. And the South perhaps didn't have to defend a "rear" so much as they had to defend a front that was 360 degrees. Union troops in 1862 and 1863 were all at once attacking up and down the Mississippi River, the Tennessee River, New Orleans, Mobile, Charleston, Richmond, and Eastern Tennessee.
Large parts of the South were basically beyond the reach of Confederate authorities, with deserters and escaped slaves resisting any attempt by the Home Guard or army to enforce conscription.
The South also absolutely protected their rear (or, at least, they believed they had to) in the form of the various states’ Home Guards, which were essentially tasked with suppressing possible slave insurrections. The memory of John Brown and Nat Turner’s rebellion haunted the South to such an extent that many governors refused to send their Home Guards to assist the national armies, meaning that a huge well of manpower was underutilized (with some exceptions, like the Georgia Home Guard fighting Sherman).