in Toronto's, used to be best restaurant, Alo, they charge $50 per person when you make reservation. When you show up that $50 goes towards your bill, if you dont show up you forfeit your $50.
in place i work, if you show up on time of your reservation and for some stupid reason there no table ready for you, you get free glass of prosecco and tiny appetizer, at the bar while waiting. and we are not by any means fancy restaurant.
I'm amazed restaurants still take reservations. As a former service worker I totally agree with charging no shows. It's like the airline, you book a flight and pay, if you don't show it's your loss. This applies to restaurants, they hold your table and tell others to wait, it costs the restaurant money to have empty seats with paying customers waiting at the door.
If you were the table that stayed too long and caused someone else's table reservation to not be available on time, would you pay them? It gets tricky. It's hard as a restaurant to handle the tables that stay for 3-4 hours, especially when not ordering while doing it. It's not ok, but it's also not ok to ask them to leave. That's usually why reservations aren't ready.
Sounds like it's more a problem with their reservation policy. If you have a 35 seat capacity, why on earth would you hold a table for an hour before filling the seats? I mean, if people want to give you a credit card number to make a reservation, go for it, but there seems to be a better solution that won't end in bad press for the restaurant.
Being able to forecast and plan are vital to a restaurant's success, but they should be able to do that without reservations. Most restaurants I've been to have stopped taking reservations altogether.
I think a restaurant that is having trouble losing revenue over cancelled reservations should stop taking reservations. If they are turning people away, it's a sign they don't need reservations. And if they aren't turning people away, cancelled reservations aren't hurting their bottom line. I think people (and the restaurant) are making the issue too complicated with the fee thing. I think the fees will only invite negative press in the end when the solution could be much simpler.