The Greeks and Romans themselves saw no distinction between the accomplishments of painting and those of sculpture. The greatest painters, like the most eminent sculptors, were famed for their ability to capture life in every ineffable detail.
There are many other anecdotes about the astonishing level of verisimilitude achieved by other great artists (Apelles and Protogenes, for example, had a similar contest). For our purposes, the important point is this: the Greeks and Romans never viewed painting as an inferior medium, and attributed almost photographic realism to the greatest painted masterpieces.
second, the "quality" of artists is not universally distributed -- the sculptures from the ancient world which are extant and depicted widely comport to the ideal art forms of the Renaissance and beyond, when perspective and "realism" in visual arts are highly prized. The person who sculpted the statue of Laocoön is very much not likely to be the same person who painted the fresco you linked, and picking examples that are widely separated don't tell us a lot about realism -- the Fayyum are realistic by our standards, while other attempts to paint or repair paintings by a well-meaning gran can go .
The small amount of research I’ve seen would seem to suggest that while many classic artists had a complex understanding of carving the figure, they had little ability to apply surfaces that contoured the forms.
My impulse - and it's just that, an impulse - is to assume that the people who were painting figural sculpture were more craftsmen than artists, and tended to more or less mechanically apply a standard set of colors to carved details. In lieu of actual evidence, of course, this is just a hunch, based on the often paint-by-numbers approach we see in Pompeii frescoes. And I wouldn't be surprised (again, without being able to stiffen this feeling with anything rigorous) to find that the pallet really was quite limited - both by convention and by the pigments that could reliably stand up to the weather. There were, of course, sophisticated exemplars for coloring figures available (Apelles & co.), but we need not assume that they were imitated.
Is the current portrayal of these painted figures overly simplistic, or maybe was the color pallet just very limited?
What do you think with regards to the current perception of Roman figurative sculpture as colorfully painted? I don’t question the fact that it was painted, but I have trouble wrapping my brain around the fact that it’s now portrayed as being incredibly flat - monochromatic coatings that minimize the dimensionality of the form.