^^this. What the job is actually is important - some jobs can argue that a specific gender is necessary for the position (e.g., working at a DV shelter that works solely with women, attendant for a fitting room in a lingerie store, etc.).
IANAL. But, this absolutely sounds like gender/sexual discrimination, which will probably be tough to prove. However, with the evidence regarding recent hires, there is more likelihood of proving this.
A more common and realistic BFOQ is “must be able to lift 50 pounds,” which is often seen in job descriptions for positions in warehouses. Less common, but similar, is being in exceptional physical shape while competing as a professional athlete. Both of these are physical requirements regarding maintaining stock and processing orders and performing as a competitive team in organized sports, respectively.
If the company’s entire business model is reliant on having a woman in the position talking to women, and is advertised as doing so, they might be able to explain this as a reason for not hiring you, but making cosmetics and topicals, ESPECIALLY if it isn’t a consumer-facing aspect of the business, will be extremely hard to argue for them.
In very rare cases, a Bona Fide Occupational Qualification (BFOQ) can be applied by gender identity. For example, if one were making a realistic film about Martin Luther King Jr., odds are the project would require a black cisgender male actor. So, if a white woman with impressive acting credentials were rejected for the role of MLK Jr., and sued for gender or racial discrimination, it is highly likely a reasonable judge would rule in favor of the production company. I ran into a potential issue when casting for a movie starring a Tuskegee Institute student in a period film set before the Civil Rights Movement: the actor absolutely needed to be black. Some roles did change (i.e. a character written as being in their 30s ended up going to a man in his 60s, after the key crew realized he would be absolutely amazing in the role), or a character who was intended to be East Asian, who would face discrimination, and an Indian actor applied for the role (I explained the situation to him, and told him I wanted to work with him in the future, because he had an amazing resume, and we agreed it would be unfair to everyone to tell an East Asian story with a South Asian actor).