First, a bit of background. While anti-submarine warfare was in its infancy in WWI, so were the submarines themselves.
The earliest WW2 submarines (i.e. those designed and built during the interwar years and still in service in quantity during the opening years of WW2) were broadly similar in design and capabilities to late WW1 subs. They were a little bigger, a little more heavily, somewhat faster on the surface (although still deathly slow by the standards of major surface warships), and were fitted out with more fuel and supplies for a larger operational range without access to friendly/neutral ports for resupply. These were all incremental improvements, not fundamental game-changers. And even here, there was some overlap with the larger "cruiser" submarines of late WW1.
This is important because that is how many submarines operated during the First World War. American submarines that were based out of Bantry Bay in Ireland, out of Ponta Delgada in the Azores, and along the American East Coast, mostly operated submerged - surfacing only briefly to recharge batteries every 24 hours or so. Their mission was to hunt down German submarines, and in order to do so they patrolled along specific "billets" while submerged. While in the end, it would result in ambushing a German submarine, they weren't sitting and waiting - they were active. The British even ended up developing a specific submarine for the purpose of hunting German submarines - the R class - which had a higher submerged speed than surfaced speed.
At the surface level (no pun intended), WWII submarine warfare seems to be a repeat of WWI - used by a blockaded Germany to attack merchant shipping from the US to the UK and USSR.
While the other answers to this post have covered the possibility of Germany using its submarines to attack the ships that made up the British blockade, this was not the only way to break the blockade. Large cargo submarines could provide a way to evade the blockade and carry cargoes to and from Germany. Two such submarines were completed, with six built but converted into long-range 'cruiser' submarines.
The other big change was not in the submarines themselves, but rather in their operational doctrines. The "wolf pack" doctrines were developed as a counter to the convoy system adopted by Britain and the US in WW1 and repeated in WW2, where merchant ships and military transports would cross the Atlantic in organized groups and escorted by light warships fitted out for anti-submarine warfare.
WWI subs, on the other hand were intended to operate from ambush only, using stealth to get in range to attack larger and faster ships with their very limited armament (deck guns against unarmed merchant ships or military transports, or torpedoes against warships). The first few generations of subs were intended for coastal defense only, being little more than submersible variants of torpedo boats. By WWI, submarine fleets had had their missions and capabilities extended to also include commerce raiding and ambushing warships on the high seas. In many respects, you could think of a WWI-vintage submarine as a mobile minefield rather than as a proper warship.
Were WWII submarine designs just larger and more refined versions of the WWI, or were there meaningful improvements in terms of speed, range, armament, dive depth, communications, tactics, etc?
First off, I'm not sure the framing - looking at the capabilities of submarines backwards from modern nuclear powered ones - is the most historically fruitful. In retrospect, yeah they didn't have the same capabilities as a modern submarine, but retroactively redefining something because of newer developments isn't necessarily a sound historical practice. Modern synthetic fabrics are more durable and have different properties, but does that mean earlier natural fabrics aren't "fabric" anymore? Submarines of the period were still considered to be submarines, and were utilized as such.
I'll focus on German submarines here, since that seems to be the main thrust of the question, and because I know less about Allied and Soviet subs of that era.
So here we have two defining features of modern attack submarines (per your definition) that were present and active during the First World War.