My whole family were railroad workers, from track layers to mechanics, to crew leaders. My uncles and grandfather gave their careers to Santa Fe and later BNSF. My grandpa retired in 1995 and still has a pension and good benefits but told me the work he put in was absolutely back breaking. He was never at home and always on call. My uncle retired early because they started putting video cameras in the trucks and surveying his every move, like every fucking move. He has nothing but bad things to say but it wasn't always like that he said. My other uncle is on disability due to being electrocuted on the job by a faulty signal changing box. They fought him the entire way and took him to court, they hired people to spy on him and he thinks they tapped his phone. They were desperate to prove he was lying even with doctors and records proving he was electrocuted and almost died.
Fuck the railroad and their horseshit. I hope the current companies crumble and new companies take over the existing infrastructure. Fuck em.
Who the fuck wants to put up with that shit? All the money in the world can't buy you more time to be with your friends and family. And considering the difficulty that railway employees have in simply scheduling a fucking doctor's appointment, that money can't even buy you good health!
My dad was a BLET rail engineer, and while he was paid well, I mainly remember how often he'd get called in, and how long he'd have to be at work for. And he retired before they started with their points system bullshit.
We're already seeing a massive exodus from railways. Low staffing issues are part of the issue that the unions are raising. And it isn't surprising, either.
This shouldn’t surprise anyone. You can think Biden is based for owning the right-wing loons, but the truth is that Joe has been a Renfield for corporate power his entire career. I need to underline this: he isn’t doing any of what he does for you. He is doing it because dysfunction is bad for business. If he could take us all back to the 1990s, he would. Would that be a good outcome for you?
Maybe it would! There’s a reason so many Democrats like him - he’s a pretty good standard bearer for the privileged middle class. But Joe is backwards-looking and reactionary, in the final analysis. He’s not up to the challenges posed by governing modern America because he refuses to acknowledge its real problems.