It was as I saw: Our Rep seats were taken by Republican hands, a surprisingly strong Independent ensured that no Democrat was gonna win. However, we did have a Missoulian Trans person gain a seat in the State House, we've rejected their anti-abortion amendment, and we didn't put James Brown in our Supreme Court. So we're still kind of fucked, but we didn't entirely go Republican surprisingly.
It's not as simple as Republicans demanding this be ratified onto the State Constitution. It also requires the votes of the people of Montana before they can enforce any changes. Now with the influx of conservatives coming in and some liberals leaving, that can be a problem. And there absolutely needs to be a shake up at the MTD, because they aren't prioritizing any state-level races and their federal-level choices are getting bodied left and right by more MAGA-aligned Repubs. But yeah, our State Republicans can't exactly just up and rewrite the constitution even with their supermajorities without our say so due to the Montana State Constitution enshrining our rights to choose our amendments. That was why the Republican-controlled Legislature needed to put the anti-abortion amendment on the ballot for us to vote, and why in 2020, it was the legalized cannibis vote.
We also stopped the amendment that would have banned abortion, and the shenanigans where the GOP is constantly trying to undermine our state government/governor.
We also passed some amendments in the state constitution to enshrine abortion rights and abolish slavery \[strike some language in the state's constitution that promotes slavery.\].
We banned slavery for prisoners and enshrined the right to reproductive autonomy into our state constitution. Which is specifically a big deal because its ridiculously difficult to amend the Vermont state constitution.
Patric Leahy is retiring, which resulted in a massive reshuffle of our government. Welch (former US House) took over Leahy's US Senate seat. Becca Balint won the election for the open US House seat becoming our state's first woman to elected to congress, as well as the first openly gay person we've sent to congress.
Vermont elected Becca Balint to Congress—making her the first ever woman that the state has sent to federal office.