Typically a good solution would be to have a contract amendment that states there will be daily rent paid by seller after closing and that there will be a penalty, such as rapidly escalating rent increases, for every day they remain after the agreed upon move out date. Also that the seller, and not the relatives, would be responsible for any and all costs and damages. And that would be coupled along with a large enough escrow of the seller's funds at closing to ensure that the rent and any penalties would be paid and that the seller has a big incentive to make sure they move out as agreed.
If that doesn't work and you need to close in advance of that then do yourself a big favor and hire a real estate lawyer to help with the closing and this matter in particular.
Make sure you've got an attorney (your real estate agent can probably recommend one and it may already be a part of your closing arrangement) draw up a lease back contract that protects your rights and interests. Charge a reasonable rent for the 60 days, and a rate that'll make up for the trouble of evicting them for failing to clear out afterwards on the off chance it becomes a problem.
EDIT: And to be clear, OBVIOUSLY this is a pain in the ass for you and you have to decide whether it's worth it to buy the place. But the seller has interests too and the deal could ultimately fall apart. Maybe that's better, maybe it's not, but it is a possible outcome.
While you should absolutely take this provision seriously and skeptically, a lot of people in the comments here are acting with undo suspicion. A lease-back arrangement is pretty common in the world of real estate and there's not a lot of reason to treat these people like soon to be trespassers.
The only thing that comes of “rent back” situations is frustration and issues. You’re buying the house. If you don’t want tenants (and you really shouldn’t) then that sucks for them. But it is not your responsibility. Best case they stay longer than 60 days since if they have nowhere to live now I’m guessing the current owner will ditch them as soon as the sale happens. Worst case, it takes even longer to evict them with huge headaches to come you had no idea about.