Great response. What about Soviet helicopters? Specially the Mi-24, they seem particularly prominent in films of this era. Also the MiG-23 has its more than fair share of screen time.
Unfortunately I'm not aware of the MiG-23s in either movie. If you're not mistaking them for some other aircraft (I haven't seen the movies so I can't say for sure). There were MiG-23s in the US at the time of the filming of both of those movies, but they were part of a classified-at-the-time test program run by the Air Force, so they weren't going to be an option for filmmakers. Unless they managed to get some footage from a fairly US-friendly country that had MiG-23s (Egypt is the only one that comes to mind), it's very likely those were also mockups.
The Mi-24s in both Red Dawn and Rambo III were Aérospatiale Pumas modified to look the part - in fact they were the same aircraft in both movies, although the faux cockpit was removed for Rambo III.
In Rambo III, they largely had a combination of authentic Soviet guns and imported Chinese guns, the latter of which were often modified for particular looks. Part of the filming took place in Israel, where they were able to take advantage of the supply of authentic captured Soviet small arms - mainly AKMs - along with a few other pieces like a DShK heavy machinegun. Other shots used imported Chinese Norinco guns - Type 56s for the AK variants and an NDM-86 for a sniper rifle - as those were readily available on the civilian market in the US at the time. Some guns in particular are Type 56s modified to look like an AK-74 with its distinct muzzle brake, as even Western militaries were having a hard time getting their hands on the guns at the time, let alone the civilian market.
In Red Dawn, they used imported Egyptian Maadi AK clones, with a few guns modified with AK-74 muzzle brakes to stand in for AK-74s. A Valmet M78 stands in for an RPK fairly well, as Valmets were Finnish guns that could be imported at the time and looked close enough to an RPK to pass for the average moviegoer. At least one other Valmet chambered in .308 laid out similar to the M78 Valmet was used in several promotional shots, but doesn't appear to have made it into the movie. M60 parts were used to make mockups of several Soviet machineguns for the movie, as no examples were readily available.
The Soviet tracked vehicles in Red Dawn were modified M8 tractors fitted with a mockup of the correct turret. Ironically, those were more "real" than the American M1 tank that makes an appearance in the movie, which was a non-functioanl mockup. The Yak-38 that shows up in the movie is also a non-functional mockup.