When we talk about the impact of "desegregation" the most significant negative consequence was likely exactly what you described - the firing of thousands of Black educators; a consequence we're still feeling today. What happened to the teachers who weren't fired is varied and complicated, often tied up with local policies, personalities, and culture.
While southern states and districts shut down most schools with mostly Black student populations and faculties, they didn't shut them all down. In many cases where schools merged (virtually always Black school into white school), the leaders made the decision to expand class size or add to white teachers' workload, eliminating the need for any new teachers on the faculty. Some districts which still expected women teachers to leave the classroom upon getting married or pregnant, loosened the rules such that Black teachers could be brought on while the white teacher was on leave and then let go once the white teacher returned. In other cases, Black teachers were brought on and welcomed as part of the faculty. This was most common in large school districts with schools in close proximity. (It's likely not a coincidence that places where that was the case typically had more Black principals and Black educators in leadership positions.).
In other places, such as Alabama and Texas, leaders attended to the writing on the wall regarding the likely direction of Brown. They warned of demographic shifts, or what would become known as "white flight." In effect, when a neighborhood - or school - becomes "too" Black for many white parents' comfort level, they leave. To be sure, there were other factors that contributed to "white flight", but in the years immediately following the ruling, enough white parents pulled their children from public schools for private school so that in Washinon DC, for example, enrollment noticeably dropped in the late 50s and early 60s. As a school population dropped and teachers were excised, the first teachers to be let go were Black teachers. Texas, meanwhile, opened a number of new schools in the 1950s to address the post World War II population boom and more than a few of them were named for Confederate war generals and heroes. The message was pretty clear: if they were going to be forced to accept Black students, they were going make it clear who the school was for, first and foremost. This meant that it was possible for a Black teacher to end up working in a school named for a man who enslaved their ancestors.
In the case of some Black teachers following Brown, they had been paid out of the general fund for a district and worked at one of the Black schools. As the district leadership was unwilling to pay for the teachers to teach white students, the district office basically fired the teachers (on paper) and rehired them under a grant budget line. Since the federal grants required districts desegregate or lose the money, the district would simply refuse the money and tell the teachers there was no money for their salary.
>Some districts refused to accept federal grant dollars now tied to desegregation efforts, shifted Black teachers to that salary line, and simply refused to pay them. Some of those teachers worked the rest of the year with no pay. Those teachers won their lawsuit.
In some cases, fired Black teachers filed lawsuits against the district. The highest profile case was in 1959. The courts agreed with the district, and the when the teachers appealed to the Supreme Court, the Court declined to hear their appeal. In other cases, like the physics teacher who was given the choice of chemistry or resigning, finding a new career seemed the most viable option. Some districts refused to accept federal grant dollars now tied to desegregation efforts, shifted Black teachers to that salary line, and simply refused to pay them. Some of those teachers worked the rest of the year with no pay. Those teachers won their lawsuit.