I once read a review that said something along the lines of "O'Brian's books are at their heart an exploration of male friendship, and incidentally take place on the high seas." I don't disagree with that at all -- although I do love the man, his books get increasingly formulaic at the end -- and I think that Post Captain is probably the best example of the complexity of the characters that O'Brian creates.
Yes. There were 20 complete novels in the series and one unfinished one (O'Brian, aka Richard Patrick Russ, died before he finished it), published between 1969 and 2004. As /u/swarthmoreburke accurately points out above, O'Brian was writing before more modern scholarship on the RN let us understand how actually diverse it was, but for the time period his books are very solid depictions of the RN.
The short answer is that impresssment itself and resistance to impressment changed over the course of the 17th-19th centuries. The original practice of impressment was to give men a small sum of money (an "imprest" against future wages) with an agreement that they would come to a port at some later time; this relied on men voluntarily taking the imprest and then showing up later, but worked well enough up until the Dutch wars. As ships stayed at sea longer and men increasingly went several years between paying off (sailors generally received their wages all at once, at the end of a commission), men generally sought to avoid impressment, though the needs of the RN for manpower bumped up against that. In a "hot press" at the beginning of hostilities, it was not at all uncommon for men to be taken against their will to serve, although press gangs tried to find sailors -- it's hard to learn to sail a 19th century ship and learn the skills of a sailor, and the Royal Marines could be used for the completely unskilled labor aboard ships.
I remember reading somewhere that professional seaman in the 18th and early 19th centuries looked down on service aboard slave ships as being a job that only the dregs of the profession would take, for various reasons including moral disgust but also encompassing poor pay, harsh discipline, and an intense risk of disease. This apparently changed dramatically later in the 19th century when serving on illegal slave-ships was extremely lucrative (if you didn't get nicked, of course). I can't remember where I read this though, so I wonder if this is true or if there are any sources which elaborate on how slave-ship crewmen were seen by other mariners?
I thought that there was always some knowledge that Black sailors had served in the Royal Navy at the time. For instance, a Black sailor with a musket is depicted on the 1849 bronze relief of Nelson's death at Trafalgar at the base of Nelson's Column.