These are excellent questions and the history of contraceptives needs a lot more work. I'm a classicist by training, so my knowledge of modern practices and anything outside Europe is quite limited, but I can give this a shot while we wait for someone with a better answer.
Yes definitely! Nearly all illness in women was thought to be caused by retained menses moving around the body and poisoning it. The only time it was okay not to regularly have a period was when a woman was breastfeeding, at which point it was thought the menses migrated up to the breasts and became milk. So if a young woman was not lactating, not pregnant, and not having a regular period, it was thought you either had to cause her to bleed some other way to release it (bloodletting) or bring on her period somehow. It was not always intended to ensure a pregnancy does not develop, as even women who are not sexually active miss their periods and this was part of a bigger conception of female health. The fact that it can prevent pregnancy is in some ways a secondary or “off label” use, depending on the text.
Since this question really focusses on behaviour, I think it's important to note that women have not always had a large degree of autonomy over their own sexual lives. Marital rape wasn't even legally recognized in Canada, my home country, until 1983. This topic is incredibly complicated, as the way people conceptualize marriage and marital harmony and sex change so much over time and between individuals. Generally, though, it is important to recognize that post-coital methods of contraception have historically been one of the only ways that women could have control over their own reproduction, and that abstaining or changing the method of intercourse has not always been an option.
Prior to the advent of reliable, accessible modern birth control, men and women were acutely aware that sexual intercourse was very likely to lead to pregnancy. The most effective method at the time was simply to not have sex at all or infrequently (perhaps once a week) - abstinence - and despite the jokes about teaching that as birth control today, there is evidence that changes in at least English fertility rates were affected by deliberate attempts to limit family size. That is, abstinence on the part of women: men, particularly in urban areas, would have found it quite easy to meet sex workers, whom they paid to take on the responsibility of a possible pregnancy. Unfortunately, it's impossible to tell how many couples agreed to abstinence together and how many involved a husband stepping out on his wife, but there is a great decline in fertility over the nineteenth century and early twentieth that simply can't be explained with the contraceptives available at the time.
We do see a number of wives in the nineteenth century that have several pregnancies close together at the beginning of their marriage, then a few more spaced apart, and then no more, often well before menopause would have forced the issue. In The Long Sexual Revolution: English Women, Sex, and Contraception 1800-1975, Hera Cook quotes parson Charles Kingsley in an 1849 letter to his wife: "I long to be back in your arms [all you my] cruel cold darling beauty [wish for is] to sleep by my side." His wife, Fanny, had had one child in 1844, then a miscarriage in 1845, a second child in 1847, a third child in 1852, a miscarriage in 1853, and their last child in 1858, fitting into the pattern - it seems highly likely that she deliberately chose to turn down sex in order to prevent the later pregnancies from occurring as quickly as the first three. Other wives weren't so lucky, and had to resort to subterfuge to avoid their husbands' attempts to enforce their conjugal rights (which, in a time when it was understood that the marriage vows were effectively a blanket consent to sexual activity after the wedding, were seriously understood as rights): some women had to make excuses for avoiding their husbands instead, staying up late with housework or claiming that a child needed them to sleep in the other bedroom.