I’d heard elsewhere that Swedish iron ore was critical to the German war effort, making up 90% of ore used or something like that. Is this based on older data? Cause I’d heard this multiple places, if this is not true, why is it so widespread?
Ok, so to clarify, I’d they’d really needed to, Germany probably could have bowled them over relatively easily if they didn’t sell their iron ore, but it would be enough of an effort it wasn’t worth it if they did?
also, if Sweden had sabotaged the mines, say by collapsing them, would that have affected German war capacity enoigh tk have altered the war?
It might also have helped that the Germans knew that Sweden had rigged the mines (or the ore infrastructure) for destruction in 1939 - they knew that if they took Sweden, it would take months, if not years, before they could have the ore coming as before an attack.
Had Sweden refused to export iron ore, Germany would most certainly have invaded Sweden to secure it, and since Germany could starve Sweden of coal, the Swedish army would be unable to move and thus resist, and the Germans could have access to the full Swedish iron ore production capacity, some 30 million tons yearly instead of the 10 million tons they got.
Sweden ended the transit agreement allowing the Germans to move food, tobacco and medical supplies and troops on leave on the Swedish railway netwrok in August 1943 and stopped selling iron ore to the Germans in October 1944, after feeling that German defeats had weakened them and the continued re-armament of the Swedish armed forces had progressed to an extent that Sweden felt that the Germans would deem it too difficult to take on Sweden.
Please note that the Germans did not transit troops through Sweden to invade Norway and Sweden denied repeated requests from the Germans to reinforce and resupply the hard-pressed mountain troops of General Dietl in Narvik over Sweden as long as the war was going on in Norway. The last Allied troops left on the morning of the 8th of June 1940, after which Sweden agreed to allow German troops going to and from Norway on leave to travel on Swedish railroads.
There's a window between August 1940 and June 1941, when the majority of the Heer and parts of the Luftwaffe are not otherwise engaged and Germany could comfortably take on Sweden. This is also the time when Sweden is as compliant as possible, allowing the Germans to transport a fully armed infantry division from Norway to Finland (weapons and personell on separate trains, closely guarded by the Swedish army), to buy all the iron ore and ball bearings they want, to transport (unarmed) troops on leave from Norway and back as well as some special arms (such as heavy guns for their fortifications in Narvik) on the Swedish railway network.
After the Germans invade the Soviet Union they are again in a situation where they can take on Sweden if they really want to, but that it would require moving Heer and Luftwaffe elements from the primary front in the Soviet Union, which was probably deemed unacceptable.
After the invasion of Norway and Denmark, the Germans had France to deal with, and any larger effort agains Sweden would require them to weaken or delay their attack on France and the Low Countries, which was probably deemed unacceptable.