Thank you very much for your response. "What if" scenarios questions are terrible, but the idea that nuclear weapon deployment wasn't always clearly an executive function has always been amazing to me. If Japan had surrendered earlier would Truman have pushed as hard? Was the 2nd bomb the deciding factor or was he already swayed when the first bomb was deployed and theory became reality.
This may be implied in what you wrote, but was Truman the military acutely aware of the backlash and psychological effects that the bomb would have or did they view it more as an unresistible super weapon only?
Truman himself had a very simple conception of the bomb initially — "the greatest thing in the history of the world" — that quickly soured once he learned about the casualties. Stimson's conception was more thoughtful (he considered it a turning point for the human species, and thought a lot about the longer-term consequences of the bomb), though even he did not really anticipate the criticism from what I can tell.
It is my own theory (which I have ) that Truman was confused by this conversation as to the nature of Hiroshima as a target, and did not realize it was a city with a military base in it, as opposed to a "purely" military target, as he would at times refer to it prior to seeing damage assessments. You can read my paper if you want some insight into the consequences of that misconception, as well as the evidence for my argument.
If you're asking, was this usual practice — no. It was decidedly not. There were no other Japanese targets spared, to my knowledge, on this rationale. (It is also worth noting that Stimson's own rationale changed depending on who he was talking to — it is clear that this was not something built up out of pure logic and reason, but something Stimson felt he had to do, and he adapted logic and reason to this purpose.) It was highly anomalous and Stimson had to fight very hard for it; even after his initial announcement that he was the "kingpin" on this question, Groves and the military challenged his authority on this and kept pushing for keeping Kyoto on the list, at least as a backup. They did extensive planning on the military value of Kyoto (which they did not do for Hiroshima, Kokura, Niigata, or Nagasaki) with the aim of having bureaucratic "ammunition" for pursuing it as a target. The Secretary of War, it should be noted, did not have any real authority when it came to tactical operations during the war, and was not involved in other targeting questions (and could not stop the firebombing of cities, as he attempted to); the modern office of the Secretary of Defense, who is much more involved in such things, did not really evolve those functions until the McNamara era.