I'll leave discussion of the German perspective, especially as to how the Japanese fit into Nazi ideas on race to others who are more familiar with that particular topic. However, I would recommend by /u/ParkSungJun on why Germany switched from supporting the KMT to signing an alliance with Japan.
The series of border clashes along the Manchurian-Soviet and Mongolian borders undoubtedly played a role in the decision making. That the last clash between the IJA and the Red Army ended in a crushing defeat, with clear showings of superior Soviet logistical capability, armor, and artillery undoubtedly bore on the minds of the Army's General Staff when they considered the potential for a rapid advance into the Soviet Union. However, while this was undoubtedly a factor, the focus was already on the south and the resource area there. While war with the Soviet Union was never completely off the table, the need to take the resource rich southern territories had priority, both in achieving autarky for the Japanese Empire, as well as bring the war in China to an end.
So even if the Soviets let the Japanese invade Siberia unimpeded, they would reach European Russia battered, starving, low on manpower and supplies, exhausted, with no air cover, and no armoured forces, and given how much weakened the army in China would have been without the resources of Greater East Asia, possibly further cut off by a Chinese counterattack eliminating the gains made. Needless to say, the Soviets were never going to be majorly threatened by Japan if they attempted the Strike North doctrine.
This is furthered by the fact that Japan had actually been skirmishing with the Soviet Union on the border for some years now, and had been thoroughly humiliated. As mentioned, the Japanese did have an interest in destroying the Soviet Union due to a fear of communism, and there was even a faction of the Imperial court called "Kodoha" who were pushing for the "Strike North" doctrine, which involved invading the Soviets and annexing Siberia, as opposed to the "Strike South" doctrine against the Western powers. Strike North was supported by the Army, and even after Kodoha had been purged in early 1936, the doctrine was still being promoted throughout the early war with China, but it was after the Battle of Khalkyn Gol that the idea was abandoned. Essentialyl, Khalkhyn Gol was a border skirmish in Manchuria between the Japanese and the Soviets which the Japanese lost very badly, due to a variety of mistakes and errors made by the Japanese forces in the region, as well as effective use of Soviet armour and air power. Japanese High Command reasoned that, in the wake of this disaster, Japan was in no position to fight the Soviets, mainly due to Japan's tiny tank complement to its army, and thus the government shifted its focus to defeating China and the Western colonial powers. Later on, the Soviets and Japanese concluded a non-aggression pact, which gave both parties breathing room to delay the inevitable conflict between the two to when both were more ready. Had Japan attempted to invade the Soviet Union, the Japanese most likely would have been defeated much more quickly than they were in real life.
If Japan invaded from Manchuria at the same time Germany launched operation Barbarossa, I really struggle to see how the Russians would survive such an onslaught.
However, the casualties sustained were not enough to convince either the Kwanung Army or various elements of the Imperial Japanese Army back in the Home Islands that the Soviet Union was not a viable threat. On the contrary, it strenhened the conviction of the two parties that the USSR was the primary threat to the Japanese Empire in the Far East, and that a war against it would be inevitable - merely a question of time and opportunity.
Still, let’s get super favourable for Japan for a moment and assume (erroneously) that the Soviets and their allies could spare literally zero soldiers to the Siberian Front, allowing Japan to just walk the way to Moscow. The issue comes with the fact that this really doesn’t help anyone involved. The Japanese would be marching through Siberia, in the winter, which needless to say is a bit cold. But more than just the terrible weather, there is essentially no infrastructure, certainly not enough to support an army large enough to be of any real threat to the Soviets when they make it to beyond the Urals into European Russia. Japan already had serious issues feeding its men during the War, with Japanese troops consistently being undersupplied and undernourished compared to their allies counterparts. Particularly towards the end of the war, that is often a contributing reason to the massively inflated casualties of Japanese troops against American ones. An invasion of Siberia would have that problem in even greater numbers, as transporting food and materiel through that frozen wasteland with no infrastructure would be monumentally difficult.
Beyond that, you also have the issue that the Japanese strategy of looting and raiding for food and supplies, as they had done in China up to this point, wasn’t workable in the largely uninhabited Siberia region. There simply weren’t the population centres from which Japan could extract resources and food for its troops.