I’ve also found the geolocations on Wikipedia to be useful. At least on the iOS, you can see Wikipedia entries associated with geolocations near you in the Places tab of the official Wikipedia app.
- A lot of wikipedia articles have location data attached which some map tools can utilize. For example is an open source app for phones (both Android and Ios) which has the ability to toggle a wikipedia layer showcasing all the wikipedia articles available for nearby locations. It also is a nice app regardless as it makes use of with offline maps.
Unfortunally I have found that for big history it is quite nice and also sometimes as a general starting point for area history but that for details it isn't that adequate as Wikipedia simply doesn't have the articles available. So it certainly does fill part of what you ask for but it isn't as complete as you might like.
I am not aware of a good complete solution. I am however aware of a few map related tools and websites that (Depending on where on the world you are) do offer a few good insights:
These are far from the best/only resources -- there are SO MANY maps like this out there. These are just the ones I use the most. There are also a ton of self-made maps on Google Maps, like this map. Also, most big cities will have some sort of preservation planning viewer (like for San Antonio).
Can’t link because I’m on mobile, but if you’re interested in local history, I recommend googling The Portal to Texas History — all of the Austin History Center’s digital photo collection is on this along with repositories all over Texas. The photos are mostly tagged by location so you can view a map. Also the Austin Museum of Popular Culture (formerly SouthPop) for music/poster art history and Preservation Austin for building history. And through your Austin Public Library login, you get free digital access to the Statesman going back to the 1800s, so you can search any address and find out what used to be there.
As an addendum for this (as in my country some of those societies are rather old fashioned and might not have a good internet presence, making them hard to find): You might also want to check in with your local town archive or library. They often work together with said societies and should be able to tell you if one exists near you and get you in touch.