Instead, in this most recent election Republicans actually won Miami-Dade. The one bright spot for Republicans in the 2022 midterms.
I think that racial depolarization in voting patterns would be much healthier, long-term, for the US right now than this current status quo. The use of xenophobic dog whistles for example, would be less incentivized if this ever happens... and immigration reform is more likely to happen in such an electoral environment.
understandable because the most salient issue in Puerto Rican politics on the federal level, is probably their relationship with the rest of the United States.
(4) INCORPORATION.—Puerto Rico shall remain unincorporated until its admission as a State of the Union under paragraph (3).
(1) PRESIDENTIAL PROCLAMATION; DATE OF ADMISSION.—Upon receipt of the Elections Commission’s certification of the plebiscite results pursuant to section 5(d), the President shall issue a proclamation declaring the date that Puerto Rico is admitted as a State of the Union on an equal footing with all other States, which shall be a date not later than one year after the effective date of the plebiscite results.
(a) Election Of Delegates.—Not later than 6 months after the effective date of certification of a plebiscite result under this Act in favor of Sovereignty in Free Association with the United States, the legislature of Puerto Rico shall provide for the election of delegates to a constitutional Convention to formulate and draft a Constitution for the nation of Puerto Rico.
(a) Election Of Delegates.— Not later than 6 months after the effective date of certification of a plebiscite result under this Act in favor of independence, the legislature of Puerto Rico shall provide for the election of delegates to a constitutional Convention to formulate and draft a Constitution for the nation of Puerto Rico.
(3) ADMISSION INTO THE UNION.—Subject to the provisions of this Act, and upon the date declared by the President for admission of Puerto Rico as a State under the proclamation under paragraph (1), the territory of Puerto Rico shall be a State of the United States of America and as such admitted into the Union on an equal footing with the other States in all respects. Upon admission, Puerto Rico shall be known as the State of Puerto Rico.
The republicans will never allow Puerto Rico to be a state. Even if Puerto Rico were more ardently conservative, their base would never allow them to admit a Spanish-speaking state into the union. It is a pipe dream. What I don't get is why, if Americans refuse to allow Puerto Rico to really join the union, they don't allow Puerto Rico to simply go its own way. I'm aware that Puerto Rico hasn't yet voted for independence, but that's because they are repeatedly given the option of statehood in such elections. Why not be honest at this point and give Puerto Rico the ability to retain the status-quo or to go independent without an option for statehood since that's a pipe dream without 60+ senators in the senate firmly on the Democratic side. Out of the many referendums held in Puerto Rico, only one didn't allow for statehood which is the most popular choice, and that was held in 2012.
Well I mean they have held referendums and surveys that do show a good chunk of Puerto Ricans wanting statehood, though I will admit the questions do suck at times for recent referendums. Either way, the fact is there are those who want statehood, no matter that though you have to agree that letting the Puerto Ricans decide for themselves is the best course of action...