It's a big country that acts like a small rural town that also has a major city. It's got a vastly diverse ecosystem with people with vastly different needs. The first being survival and security, and then a means to better themselves.
It's not that they don't want anything other than the Taliban, it's that Afghanistan should be, at a minimum, about 6 different countries if not a couple dozen.
Simply put, the Afghan culture largely doesn't want anything other than the Taliban, or they're not willing to fight for it. Sure we have some counterexamples like this girl, but they're far from the majority.
The point is they didn't have enough people in it who took it seriously enough to be able to fend off the Taliban.
It is more so that the Afghan people didn't seem to appreciate our sacrifices and gave up without a fight. I am willing to keep funding South Korea and Japan's defenses indefinitely as both of those nations have proven reliable and strong allies. Hell I am even willing to accept a strategic partnership with Iraq because the Iraqis didn't just let ISIS conquer Baghdad but held on and pushed back ISIS. It is more so that a people who will not fight for their own freedom don't deserve our support, no matter the cost.
Edit: I also "lost" a brother in that war. He came home with severe PTSD and was never the same afterwards. He ended up joining a cult and cutting contact with our whole family. So I can say that I personally have paid the price for that war and truthfully have zero sympathy for the Afghan men who just gave up without a single fight.
Edit: even when France surrendered, many of its people kept up the Resistance and Germany was constantly dealing with internal sabotage. Meanwhile the Taliban seem to be largely unopposed by ordinary Afghan citizens. I am left with the conclusion that the average Afghan man at least tacitly supports the Taliban, even in liberal bastions like Kabul.
Afghanistan's social issues are not small, especially in villages, and even in the cities, but there is a massive gulf between the average village and the Taliban, and an ocean between Kabul now, and Kabul under the U.S. supported Afghan Government. The Government that the majority of Afghans supported, even if they thought it was corrupt, represented the Afghans far more than the Taliban.