Very clear writeup, not clunky at all. Considerably more helpful than the lesson on Roman names given in my high school Latin class (my memory of which may be a bit off, it's been 40 years).
I'm going first to explain Roman naming conventions during the Late Republic (1st century BCE), which is the one that applies to Augustus.
When he was a few years old, his father gave him the cognomen Thurinus to commemorate his (the father's) victory over some rebel slaves at Thurii. Thus he was Gaius Octavius Thurinus.
He was born Gaius Octavius, period, without a cognomen. He had the same name as his father, also Gaius Octavius.
When Caesar died in 44 BCE, he adopted Octavius in his will. Thus, he became Gaius Julius Caesar, without any reference to his former gens Octavia, but people anyway added the cognomen Octavianus to distinguish him from his adoptive father. This way he was known as Gaius Julius Caesar Octavianus, or anglicised and short, just Octavian.
Octavian for his period as a rising power during 44-31 BCE, after the death of Caesar and before the defeat of Marc Antony and Cleopatra.
After defeating Marc Antony and Cleopatra in 31 BCE and becoming the sole ruler of Rome, the Senate hailed him as Augustus, which means "Majestic" or "Venerable". He added the title to his name as an agnomen, now being Imperator Gaius Julius Caesar Augustus, usually shortened to Imperator Caesar Augustus, which he used until his death in 14 AD.
Augustus was born as Gaius Octavius in 63 BC taking his first name or praenomen and family name or nomen after his father Gaius Octavius. In 44 BC, Gaius Octavius was adopted by Gaius Julius Caesar in Caesar's will after his assassination. Octavius accepted this and so by Roman convention changed his name to Gaius Julius Caesar. As he had previously been a member of the gens Octavia he was also probably colloquially given the epithet Octavianus to signify his origins and to distinguish him from his identically named adoptive father although he himself never used it (i.e. Scipio Aemilianus, son of Lucius Aemilius Paulus adopted by Publius Cornelius Scipio). As with many of these epithets it has become anglicised in popular usage over the years and so Octavianus became Octavian. Later in 31 BC with his victory over Anthony (another anglicism) and Cleopatra the Senate voted him the honourific name Augustus which has religious connotations of increase, honour, or elevation. Thereafter he added this to his long form name and it has been associated with him commonly ever since.