Russias military strenh is completely undermined by corruption from top to bottom. You sa y they can hit back harder - they can’t. They can target civilians with drones - until Ukraine gets better defense systems. What Russia really hopes is that the Dnipro river will now prevent advances in the south so they can concentrate forces in the north and fight to a stalemate long enough that peace negotiations will look attractive. But that May never happen. The west.
Would prefer to keep fighting. sure we hate seeing Ukrainian losses but every day Russia gets weaker and weaker and for a basement price. Russia chose to be out enemy - what would motivate us to look for peace? Russian energy? Turns out, we are better off without it. And the Ukrainians do t seem that interested in peace. They sense, probably rightly, they can make more gains so that if peace does come, more of Ukraine will be in Ukrainian hands and they have every right to fight for their land. So we won’t encourage them to stop. And they know, as a certainty, as we do in the West, that the notion of a forced neutrality and demilitarization for Ukraine will never happen. Ukraine is an ally of the West. And Ukraine helped us to remember who we are, that we are strong because we build relationships that are more than transactional and we value the democratic ideals that burn in Ukraine too. Ukraine is a good friend, Russia a bad one.
And Ukraine will be at the mercy of Europe and Russia. France, Spain, Portuguese, Italy these nations are not going to stick their head in this war for a long time, it's uk Germany, Poland and Scandinavian nations which will have to bleed money, weapons & resources. They can only supply them if their economy survives this winter.
Russia did not stop throwing bombs and destroying infrastructure and it won't till west steps down.
Russia started the fire but West fueling this war giving weapons to ukrain , ukrain hit Russia hard and Russia will hit harder.
On the other hand, this action is one of the few sound military actions by Russians since the start of the war. Kherson was untenable and both sides knew it. If the Russians had stood their ground, the Ukrainians would have probably watched them slowly dying in the following months rather than assault them. Now they have to face the Russians defensive positions on the other side of the river and/or find a way around them.