The Tibetan government in exile claims the Dalai Lama was already making reforms and planned to end the serfdom / slavery system when China invaded. Do we have any non-biased evidence this is true ?
There isn't "no evidence," it's that there's a dearth of evidence regarding specifics. We have legal codes from historic Himalayan polities, but specific legal cases involving slaves, serfs, Zaps, Draps, and all other sorts of legal conditions, are somewhat lacking. A lot of legal issues, especially down at the local level were done orally since illiteracy was rampant, and (imo, a more dominant factor) paper was extremely expensive, labor-intensive to produce, and reserved for monastic purposes.
I wouldn't say "yes" to the answer "Was pre-CCP Tibet slave-based?" Even with caveats. This would imply that the entire Tibetan economy was slave-dependent, for which I've seen no evidence.
We also know for certain that Tibetan people were subject to corvee labor, i.e. labor as a form of tax. Which, of course, is not mutually exclusive with slavery, but it is often implied that the Tibetan government was a slaveocracy, which stresses the logic of taxing the remaining 10% of the populace for their labor when 90% of the people were already enslaved to the theocracy (as one often hears from CCP propagandists).
I know nothing about CCP propaganda, anyway if they say so, 90% is too much for slavery society, u can suggest it as specific thing for tibet, also, in that case, good to know, what does "some condition of slavery" means here.
EDIT: To clarify, at no point have I or anyone been trying to imply that Tibetan slaves, Draps, Zaps, or whatever other name they might have gone by were happy being slaves. This is ridiculous on the face of it, and even the most privileged people of Tibetan and Bhutanese society, i.e. the Dalai Lama and the Kings of Bhutan, have acknowledged before in the past that Himalayan slaves were treated poorly and have made efforts to not only right that historical injustice, but have repeatedly acknowledged it. If there is a point to be made about the treatment of an underclass and political sovereignty, it's that if human rights abuses delegitimize a government, that's a bit of a glass-houses situation.