Citation needed that the "native population isn't driving demand", since people don't live as healthy individuals for 40 years and then drop dead. Instead, as people get older, they require more services.
"There is a rising demand for health services due to an ageing population with increasingly complex healthcare needs. People are living longer and, as they age, their healthcare needs change. The number of people living with long-term conditions is set to increase, with more individuals managing multiple conditions.".
But that's all besides the point. You are looking at this way to narrowly. Forget Russia, instead think of what would happen if Turkey decided to block you from the bosphorus or the Suez. Or if Iran decided to blockade the red sea... Or if India was at war with China and requested British support.
It's also not about whether Britain can defend it's island. It's about whether it can effectively defend it's interests against a peer away from it's island; one of which is the integrity of Europe and NATO.
The point the General was making is that outside of a direct threat to the island Britain can't really defend it's own or NATOs interests and that's dangerous for global stability.
No nuclear power wants to fight the UK because the UK has nukes, no power without nukes has the means or geographical location to threaten even the UK's heavily reduced army. The only people who support militarizing are people that haven't been paying attention for the last 80 years, Ukraine got invaded because it was asked to give up their nukes, if they had nukes Russia wouldn't have invaded, it's really not that complicated. The problem arises when Russia go ahead and invade anyway because they think they can take out the nuclear facilities before they're fired, at that point you could end up in a full scale nuclear war on Europe's doorstep, and honestly with how ridiculously Russia have been playing out this conflict, I wouldn't be surprised if they would have been confident in doing such a thing.
Fighting proxy wars abroad is different to defending your own shores, Russia / China aren't going to attack the US / UK because nukes exist, they're going to either attack neighbors that don't have nukes, or try to gain control economically / diplomatically. The US' army and navy haven't seen use in over 50 years, at most they deploy smaller divisions to fight in the middle east, a full blown army isn't important anymore for nuclear powers unless they want to invade countries themselves, and if it comes down to that then the tech advantage is going to be far and away enough to beat anyone that isn't Russia / China (but that's where nukes come into it, a full blown conflict won't start because fighting = nukes).