can't say for sure since it could depend on states or insurances but if OP had their script filled already for the month it might be a whole Thing to try to convince insurance to fill it a second time despite having a good reason for needing it filled again.
I mean IME they wouldn't fill it again even if it was just Wellbutrin or something lol, insurance sure is loathe to put out money twice unfortunately, but regardless yeah it's weird to me to see all these comments saying to "just transfer your script/get a new doctor to write a new script" as if that wouldn't mean OP would likely still be out of their meds for the month. like at least acknowledge it won't help for this month but it'll get them their meds in the future. OP might want to consider also attempting an emergency weekend trip to CA just to get their meds for the month on top of assuring getting their medication in the future, but obviously I understand that may be financially ambitious, not to mention the issue of the pandemic.
that's not necessarily true. I'm on Adderall and clonazepam and am currently living in NYS, but I live in Boston and that's where my doctors are at. and they're prescribing me these medications and faxing the scripts to NYS and I am filling them here and it's not a problem at all. situation might be different in other states but just saying.
It’s not my objection, it’s the federal and state laws. I assure you, your pharmacy did not “transfer” an existing prescription, perhaps your doctor sent it to your new pharmacy electronically within your same state.
Pharmacies cannot transfer controlled substances and a doctor cannot electronically send (no longer call in) a controlled substance into a pharmacy nor does he (per OP) have a prescribing license in the state she is in, she has only the choices of flying home or possibly attempting a visit to a urgent care for this one then obtaining a new doc but controlled there is no wiggle room with controlled substances.
Secondly the prescription for this month has been filled she will not get a second one unless she is filling out a police report that what her mother did was theft, which as of right now it is not. If she showed up at her mother’s door it has not been proved her mother would not hand over the medication.
Now there is the question of how the prescription got into OP's mom's hands. Did she go to the pharmacy and pick it up in OO's name or was it shipped to opie's home address or what?