If someone stayed in a debtor’s prison, did that actually help the creditor/debtee recover their money? Of did the prison just serve as a form of punishment for not being able to pay back their debts?
It's a complex topic, but in general, debtors were kept in jail until such time that they could repay the debt. This depended entirely on the kind of person they were. For an aristocrat, that may be until their legal representatives were able to sell some land. If they were middle class, it may have been until they could borrow money off friends or offload some commodities they were holding for sale. What we now call "working class" people had little prospect of owing someone enough money to warrant being thrown into a debtors jail - the cost of prosecuting them would have likely outweighed their debt. There was no public prosecutor, aside from lawyers who worked on behalf of the Crown and its estates (but even then, British monarchs were notoriously crap at managing their money, and quite often they were the ones who owed it, rather than the other way around).
They were fascinating places. Basically, if you owed money and a successful prosecution was pursued, you were sent to a compter - but they were very different from prisons nowadays. If you were an aristocrat who owed money to the Crown or another nobleman, you would never tolerate slumming it with a commoner - even in prison - so they had separate suites, and even servants to wait on them!
A fair bit had to happen before the person was thrown in jail though. It wasn't the go-to option. Whilst we didn't go as far as the Romans in enslaving people who were found to be in debt, bailiffs were a thing during the period OP mentioned. They'd turn up at a person's house and seize goods to the value of the debt, but as you can imagine, the whole process was arbitrary and - by all accounts - fairly brutal too.
The source is unclear on who owed who though, from what you've said. "Brought actions" meant then what it does now - an individual pursuing a prosecution. This was way before the Crown Prosecution Service. Without any public prosecutor, legal recourse of any kind was only available for those who could afford it. It's quite possible that your ancestor was sued for 100 marks by the Grocer, wrongfully in his eyes, and he spent 5 years attempting to recover the debt from the person who brought charges against him. Legal proceedings were often held at places of imprisonment, especially for minor offences or civil matter, so "at the compter" likely just means that the case was heard at the prison.