The elderly might fret about this a little. ("Helen We need to restock the bunker There's a radioactive tidal wave gap!").
Hmm. I'm not going to delete my previous comment, but after a bit more though, I may have been reading an in situ engineering analysis of recreating a naturally occurring tsunami.
Oh it's worse than that. The back of napkin math says that at most something like .33% of the energy of a atomic explosion is propagated into a solid hydraulic pressure wave. And that means even a modest 10m wave would require a litte more than a 500,000 kiloton detonation. The tsar bomb, for comparison, has a hypothetical yield of 50,000 kilotons. (Nuclear bombs just don't have the right force over time to make ocean waves.).
Now. I'm not an alarmist. But given Putin's prior behavior the last 25 years, I have absolutely no doubts he'd sacrifice all his countrymen for the sake of getting his name to echo throughout history. Whether as hero or monster, he doesn't care. Ghengis Khan was a proverbial slaughterhouse made flesh. Yet his name is still carried with fear and reverence. That's what Putin wants. He wants a legacy to last throughout the ages. Not just some random president somewhere that had some little war with those folks who were once a part of the old empire.
So here's to hoping for paper tigers. And continually shoddy military performance, and lordy, hope those ancient nukes are defunct and haven't had the appropriate upkeep while mouldering away in their silos.
If their nuclear arsenal has received the same upkeep as the rest of their military assets I'm skeptical of their nuclear program in general. Simply having nuclear weapons is not the same as having a viable, functioning, and accurate delivery system. It's still not a chance I would take, but the invasion of Ukraine has shown that their military is all bark and no bite.
Popping off nuclear war and seeing where the dice fall might hold more opportunity than just declaring outright failure via Ukraine. Once you get your ass handed back to you with counter nuclear attacks, some of your sympathizers like China, Iran, Syria, North Korea on board with the destruction East vs West worldviews. NATO is strong, but it's not hold off wars on all fronts kind of strong.