Lol bullshit. No one goes to jail in Russia or China for dancing and they are without a doubt strictly authoritarian. There's levels. And religion takes things to a whole new one.
That’s a different kind of cult. That started as a cult of personality around Mao. Quite typical of communist dictatorships to replace the original local cult(s) with a cult of personality. Same difference.
I have no issues with faith, but putting a name on it and framing it within a non-democratic organization opens it up for exploitation, just like they were designed to be. Religions are just personality cults around personas that can no longer die and thus render themselves useless as tools of oppression.
Reducing Religions to "just personality cults" is disingenuous to the history of faith based structures of thought through history.
Personally for me, it's helpful in providing a framework for moral thought not just now, but through time. People through the ages have used ideas, imagery, dreams, and icons to provide context for the reality that we live in. While the structure of thought, and names used for these things have changed over time, a thorough reading of secular and non-secular works through history, have shown me that they largely talk about the same things.
People often conflate organized religion with personal faith. Faith-based practices are a staple of every culture. There is nothing wrong, or bad about faith. What people take issue with is when people force their version of their own faith onto others, even more so when policy is built around that version of faith. It's when power becomes centralized and prime for exploitation and corruption using the facade of faith that it becomes easier to point to the religion as the problem. However it's usually the people and systems rather than religion itself that exerts control.
I mean that religion is a form of government - a means of control of a population. They create rules. They have followers. They have leaders. Religions govern.