So, with all of this in mind, I highly doubt that the zoo will be able to keep its remaining chimpanzees now – and it’s possible that Furuvik Zoo will not survive at all. Besides chimpanzees, the zoo also houses orangutans, and I feel that at the very least, both the chimpanzees and orangutans will need to get new homes at another park. Other than the great apes, Furuvik is actually a rather small zoo though, with mostly domesticated animals and a few small and harmless wild animals – the apes were the zoo’s greatest attraction.
In addition to all of that, it has also come out that the zoo even before the incident had been charged with breaking animal welfare laws, since the building where the chimpanzees were housed did not live to the minimum animal welfare standards for Swedish zoos. And after the incident, the zoo has now also been charged with animal cruelty and neglect.
But even more damning than the public outrage is perhaps that even leading Swedish experts on primate behaviour have come out and condemned the park’s handling of its chimpanzees and the entire situation. Saying that the zookeepers had a lacking relationship with its chimpanzees. That the chimpanzees had no trust in the keepers, which made the situation way worse. And that killing them was completely unnecessary. The experts also say that it would be nearly impossible for the zoo to keep its remaining chimpanzees now, since the chimpanzees have been deeply traumatised by the event and have lost all trust in their keepers. Before this event, the zoo was also part of a research project on the cognition of great apes together with Lund University – one of Sweden’s leading universities – but the university has now decided to suspend that cooperation.
The more news that are coming out about the Furuvik Zoo, the worse it looks. I highly doubt that they will able to keep their remaining chimpanzees after this.
PS: Your point about a human life being more important than that of a Chimp I would dispute such a charge.
There are many humans off the top of my head that I would gladly sacrifice over the life of any Chimp….
Because a 3 year old chimp can literally rip your arm off and beat you to death. Its a dangerous wild animal and chimps hunt humans. Yes. They hunt humans. And they do it in packs aswell.