The reason why you've never seen anyone do this, btw, is setting aside the "who pays for it" argument already raised there's a more fundamental issue: blood transfusions are heavily regulated to ensure the blood donated is safe for transfusion, so you would have to be UNHEALTHY enough to be in a vegetative state but HEALTHY enough to otherwise donate blood, and that's an incredibly tough needle to thread. The things your body does alone to fight being vegetative would likely render your blood not safe to donate.
It makes no sense whatsoever to keep you alive just as a source of transfusable blood products; there's not that much of a shortage of blood donors. (Shortages can usually be fixed by throwing relatively low amounts of money at recruitment efforts.).
Even if you donated the maximum allowable amounts, and had a high platelet count, that's only $76k, which is not going to cover a year in the hospital. (And it's unlikely you could produce the maximum 72 platelet products a year; since a vegetative person can't squeeze in order to keep pressure up, it would be difficult, at best, to pull a triple-product in the allowed time, unless your platelet count was extraordinarily high.).
Blood has a cost of about $300 per transfused red unit, plasma about $400 (higher demand), and platelets about $900 (platelets are in high demand and extremely perishable.) Much of the cost goes into supplies and processing. (The tubing kits alone for blood donation cost $100's.).
Look into platelet donation; you can donate up to 24 times a year, producing potentially (depending on your weight and platelet count) up to 72 transfusable platelet products (equivalent to the platelets from about 576 whole blood donations), 24 plasma products, and six red cell products.
If an adequate blood supply is that important to you, donate all you can while alive, and buy a large life-insurance policy with a blood bank as the beneficiary (or just donate what you'd spend on the insurance to the blood bank.).