The simple answer is that Western education systems just aren’t built to support foreign history in this vein. There’s hundreds, thousands even, of great philosophers I’ll elaborate on below. But know that this isn’t ignorance; this is just how our society has taught us. Two major factors play into this:
Though Chinese Buddhism built itself a foundation during the latter years of the Sixteen Kingdoms, it would reach its peak during the peacetime of the Tang Dynasty. The school of philosophy sometimes known as Zen Buddhism, Chan in Mandarin Pinyin, would enter China during the Six Dynasties with the semi-mythical Indian monk Bodhidharma. One of his students, Dazu Huike (大祖慧可) would become the second patriarch (similar to religious head) of Chinese Buddhism, propagating the teachings of his master.
Surely you mean "Dazu Huike (大祖慧可) would become the second patriarch (similar to religious head) of Zen Buddhism, propagating the teachings of his master."? Because there were other schools of Buddhism in China with their own lineages of leaders - including Tiantai.
The philosophy of the period from the Six Dynasties onward was largely dominated by one school of thought: Buddhism. Originally considered an occultism like the Yin-Yang school during the Han Dynasty and great disunity, even sometimes relegating Buddha to being a “disciple of Laozi,” the faith finally bloomed during the peace of the Sui and Tang.
And thus, to address this philosophical vacuum, during the Late Tang came the two progenitors of Neo-Confucianism: Han Yu (韓愈) and Li Ao (李翱), though the former tends to garner more praise. Both wrote about the spiritual succession of the Dao from semi-mythical wise kings to Confucius himself, and then Mencius, comparing it to the patriarchal succession of Buddhism.
Dong Zhongshu: defined Confucianism as the guiding ethic of China, reconciled Daoism, Yin-Yang, and Confucianism.
In this way, like Dong Zhongshu before them, they united many disparate threads of philosophy. Because the version of Buddhism the Chinese had always known, the Chan school, was deeply syncretized with Neo-Daoism, Han Yu and Li Aos’ work effectively tied together the three major strands of Chinese philosophy, creating Neo-Confucianism.
While Han Yu would maintain a collectivist orthodoxy for future scholars, maintaining that all Neo-Confucianists were successors to Mengzi and Kongzi; Li Ao would be the more arrogant of the two and declare himself the sole successor of Dao, leading to his relegation to a minor figure behind Han Yu as his ideas were discarded.