As was said in the answer above: taking a country's capital does not automatically knock it out of the war. Taking St. Petersburg could have been as feasible as taking any other Russian city - but it didn't matter.
I admire your effort trying to create a scenario in which Napoleon would have "won" in Russia, but if you read previous answers carefully, there are a lot of problems that historians cannot ignore.
Napoleon certainly did claim to have captured Moscow; it was after all the only real notable success of an otherwise frustrating campaign mounted at great expense. But Moscow was fairly useless as a prize if it did not bring any political solution to the war. But this worked against Napoleon. The longer Napoleon occupied Moscow in the hopes for a political settlement that would not come, the greater sway the Bagration camp possessed over the more cautious "foreigners" like Barclay de Tolly. In the meantime, Russian forces blocked Napoleon's alternate escape routes via the Kaluga, so the Grande Armée had to retreat over its own line of advance, which had been twice picked over by the two armies in the summer.
Neither Moscow, St. Petersburg. nor any other Russian cities were the primary targets of the French invasion. Napoleon's main goal when he crossed the Niemen River in June 1812 was not to occupy Russian cities but to destroy the Russian armies. Napoleon staked a lot of hope on being able to pin down and crush the main Russian armies with overwhelming force. This was a problematic strategy for a number of reasons. For one, the Grande Armée of 1812 was simply too large and unwieldy to use with the speed required. The battles prior to Borodino followed a typical pattern of the Grande Armée's individual corps making contact but being too far away from their other corps to press on decisively. Secondly, rivalries and hatreds among Napoleon's corps commanders made it very difficult for them to work as a team, and Napoleon's own confused staff work compounded matters. Third, the hot summer weather and terrain made it difficult to conduct speedy operations. The summer march ate into supplies and draft animals and contributed to outbreaks of dysentery and other ailments that wasted away the strenh of the Grande Armée.
The result was that the two armies that faced each other at Borodino were exhausted and rather less effective than they had been at the start of the campaign in June. Napoleon carried the day, but the Grande Armée was in no shape to pursue the still large remnants of the Russian army. But Moscow appeared before Napoleon as a prize with no real force standing in his way to take it.
Finally, one has to give the Russians their due in thwarting Napoleon's plans. The Russian command was polarized between two camps on how to meet the French invasion. The defensive camp centered around War Minister Barclay de Tolly called for fighting a staged delaying action that would exhaust the enemy as it advanced into the interior, where it would be counterattacked by overwhelming force. A more aggressive strategy was championed by the likes of Prince Peter Bagration set the Oder as the final line of French advance and the the Russian army should immediately counterattack once the French invaded. Neither stratagem played out in 1812, but the command paralysis between these two camps encouraged a retreat towards Moscow.