Blame all the redditors who keep sending Twitter news to the front page beating their dicks off to an egotistical billionaire doing egotistical billionaire things.
They are not mad about that, they are mad that twitter has fired most of its security and moderator teams, and now twitter is full of hate speech and misinformation. Bring Trump back is just another little terd on top of the steaming pile.
Gotta choose your battles, and twitter was somewhat of a waste before. And on an unmoderated platform, how do you even begin to "fight"? I imagine you might make a few people waste their time in blocking you, but other than that, I'm not seeing a battleground of ideas there, and I'm glad I deleted my twitter account.
Also, his account is back (not him) \with the Tweets that got him banned deleted from the account\, which is what Twitter wanted all along.
I read it as you were agreeing with the person you replied to that you shouldn't interact with people that use Twitter. You use Reddit and Reddit uses Twitter, thus you shouldn't use Reddit.
Pretty much every every business I interact with in my personal life has a Twitter account. Almost every business today needs a social media presence in order to be searchable online and these businesses use these platforms, including Twitter, to communicate information from basic information; such as addresses and operating hours; to daily announcements, such as sales, events, or temporary hours. It has gotten to the point where even if a business has it's own website, the websites tell you to refer to their social media for up-to-date information.
So which side of this all are you actually supporting and promoting? Do you think "anyone on Twitter is supporting a right wing fascist propaganda network" or "this is just silly"?
So I truly am curious how you plan to do anything in your life without spending money with someone who has a Twitter account Good luck with your day to day life functions, such as using local utilities, buying food and toiletries, purchasing replacement parts for anything, using government services, or even using Reddit.