Can I add that OP should absolutely call either police or whatever adult protective program is in that region IMMEDIATELY when suicide is threatened? Suicide is not to ever be taken lightly, even if it is used as a manipulation tactic. This behavior needs to be recorded by authorities, and honestly, it sounds like a psych evaluation might not be such a bad idea. No judge would ever award unsupervised visitation with a grandparent who threatened suicide and has shown unstable behavior as it wouldn’t be in the best interest of the child.
Grandparents who petition for visitation with their grandchildren generally need to prove that it's somehow in their grandchild's best interests to have that relationship, to such a level that the courts should overrule the parents' judgment. That's a very high bar to clear: cases where grandparents are awarded visitation over the parents' objections generally have to do with situations where the parents are separated or one of the parents has died, or where the grandparent had an ongoing quasiparental role in the child's life that has been cut short, or where the grandparent presents unique cultural opportunities (think "only surviving first nations relative" here) for the child's upbringing.
If she actually does file, get a lawyer regardless. In the meantime, keep dated notes of your interactions with grandma around this, as well as of her erratic behaviour.
The courts are generally also likely to be reasonable even when granting a petition of this nature. If you have a reasonable basis to be concerned for your child's welfare, then unsupervised visitation may be off the table. You could move to have visitation at your home, for example, or with an impartial social worker present. If she has been offered visitation under reasonable parenting conditions and is refusing, the courts are _very_ unlikely to grant her a request that's more than what you offered, even if she finds some basis to have the courts overrule you in the first place.
The important thing to realize is that in BC, grandparent’s don’t have “rights”, the courts will only ever order visitation when its in the best interests of the child. So, really its children’s rights. Its very hard to imagine a scenario in which your child’s best interest would be served only by unsupervised visits. Hold the line on allowing her unsupervised access to your child. Keep records of the counselor’s suggestion to remove your child from the situation. You don’t really need to worry until you receive papers from the court (not just a random lawyer, court). If you do get served, do not ignore it. Get a family lawyer and have them respond. If it would make you feel better, you could research a few family lawyers and do a consult. Initial consults are generally fairly low cost, and you could feel better prepared having a lawyer you feel confident with.