Remember that they didn't give you the legally mandated 24 hour notice that they were coming by. So they were trespassing before they leased the unit, by at least a month. It could have taken longer to lease the apartment, so keep that in mind as well. And of coarse, the family in there now, shouldn't be. It's not their fault though. But you can request to look at the dates on their copy of the lease, just to make sure the leasing company isn't playing fast and loose with the legal documents.
However, it sounds like you'd be willing to consider them paying you the backpay rent that they double-dipped on. Not only should you get back the monthly rent that you paid, but you should also get back an extra month or two for the trespassing while showing the unit. It's likely that they won't add that to their initial consideration, hoping that you won't think of that. Take pictures, or have your friend take pictures, and see about talking to neighbors. Explain that your just trying to see if the company trespassed for multiple months, and that your trying to gather information against the landlord. Some people will jump at the chance, I'm sure, to help you out. No landlord is universally liked, I think. This may help you quite a bit.
Just make sure you talk to the renters, see if you can look at the dates on their lease. That way, you know that you aren't seeing a made up lease that the company can just whip up. Might also talk to neighbors, just to see if they noticed any new activity beforehand. Also, keep in mind, they didn't give you 24 hour notice that they were coming by, so they couldn't have legally shown the unit to anyone. Since they were accepting the rent, and didn't notify you that there was a change, that implies that you were still the legal renter, and they didn't have the right to keep taking your money, and rent out from under you.
From what I recall (landlords in NY ignore the law so often it's more of a suggestion), the tenant has the right to refuse to allow entry. This implies afaik that the tenant must grant permission if it's outside of emergencies (which don't require any notice) or a given period before the lease ends (in which case the tenant must allow entry within reasonable notice and hours, e.g. not at 11 at night, or not when they have company over).
As for methods - I've always communicated with landlords and property managers via text. Notice on the door happens I guess, I've just rarely seen them there outside of eviction notices on other apartments.
I wasn't envisioning landlord "letting" someone live rent free. I was suggesting that if the landlord rented to new tenant at a lower rate, or if new tenant promised to pay rent but didn't, then landlord might not collect rent equal to what OP owed under his lease.
At the very least, I'd request them to refund you prorated rent from the moment you have physically left the apartment, not from the moment they've leased the unit to the new family "a couple of weeks back". For all you know, there could have been other usage of the property (short-term rental, showings, reno, etc.) before the current lease has started. They just have not been caught red-handed on it.