I'm a stage hand with nearly 20 years experience. I fully plan on going over and finding a theater to help rebuild. And I won't leave until I see a show in that theater.
"Well Heaven's not all it's cracked up to be. You see heaven is for the kind of people who like the things that go on in Heaven. Singing. Talking to God. Watering potted plants. But hell, you see, is for people who like other things. Adultery. Pillage. Torture. Those areas of interest. So leave your lands to the crown, and once you're dead, you'll have the time of your life!".
Of course. But unless you live in North Korea, every national culture has external influences. And Russian cultural influence has now been wiped in Ukraine.
"The fate of the war is already clear: Ukraine will be independent and Russia is tremendously weakened.
One difference lies in that Ukraine had a much larger and established opposition which Russia doesn't have at all. There was an alternative for people to fight for, and the very reasonable belief that if they were successful, there was a government ready to step in and take over. In Russia, there is none of that. There are no leaders (they're all dead or in prison), there is no opposition government to support or take over. There is no way to organize action without having FSB bust your door down the same day and take you out of the picture. The whole system has been organized so that unrest disappears before it can gain any momentum at all, and that is very difficult to overcome. It's not certain that the Iranian protests will succeed, and I doubt they have a better police state than Russia. China is a better analogue. Does anyone in the west really think those poor Chinese guys have a chance of overthrowing their dictator?
Another problem I think though, is that Ukraine's ratio probably looked more like 1/39/60 (at a very rough guess). Certainly Ukraine had a MUCH larger number of people who were strongly anti-Yanukovich. When you've got the majority of the country on your side, it's much easier for spontaneous protests to appear in sufficient numbers to snowball into something huge.
The amount of liberal people in Russia means you will get next to no spontaneous protests that can potentially snowball - no one wants to be the first to stand up in the centre and watch as almost everyone just walks by and police arrive quickly to make you change your mind.