And idiots will continue to not blame China or Russia. America will continue to try to peg global economic wins and losses on its president - because that’s what it has always done.
Americans will complain for the same reason they complained about China’s previous pandemic manufacturing slowdowns and or Russia war that’s impacted fuel.
Supply for important products will be impacted. And when wanted things are in short supply, prices go up and inflation drags out.
This suggests that a large part of inflation is indeed due to the spending bill which has strained these supplies. And guess what - more expensive inputs mean more expensive food - most food is a produced/manufactured product it doesn’t come out of thin air.
Also, I don’t buy your argument that the infrastructure improvements from the bill are going to reduce prices to compensate for this. The state of infrastructure in the US is atrocious but not such that it was causing huge price rises due to blocked supply chains, so that chain of reasoning is null.
I support the Democrats over the Republicans all day but a lot of the current inflation in the US is absolutely Biden’s fault.
It's not Biden's (that spending bill won massive bipartisan support, so not really his or dems can take sole credit), or any presidents fault. Well I could try to cast some shade on the former presidents tax cuts, his insistence on keeping interest rates super low, and he was the first to give out stimulus checks and Covid relief, but not much point in that. That ball started rolling during the beginning of Covid and there wasn't going to be much anyone could do to stop it.
To flesh out the argument, it starts with my last line, the ball started rolling during the start of Covid. Which was before Biden took office. Covid caused initial supply chain shortages and labor shortages, which kicked off inflation. Another big part of inflation is psychological as well. People demand more wages because they fear prices going up, businesses raise prices because they fear material and labor prices increasing. It's difficult to stop, because people are afraid it won't and act accordingly. To summarize, I blame Covid. Did Biden fail to stop it? Sure. But Historically inflation is a difficult beast to slay, and if you do it wrong you end up in a recession.
I agree that multiple factors cause inflation but I don't agreed that biden's responsible spending is one of them. This type of infrastructure spending does not increase the money piles at the high end like the reckless spending of corporate handouts do which is one of the factors that caused our inflation. It actually tends to reduce costs as so much of the economy can reduce costs since they can utilize the infrastructure.