I'm really kicking myself now because a few days ago, while looking for something else, I ran across a lenhy footnote referencing apparent Taiping plans to eventually replace hereditary monarchy with elected leadership. If this proposal did exist, whoever was referring to it was clearly overblowing it – I could find no reference to such a suggestion in the Zizheng xinpian 資政新篇, the set of Hong Rengan's policy proposals promulgated in 1859. Whatever the case, Hong Rengan would have been the most likely source of such a radical plan, and he would have been drawing on foreign, not indigenous models. It is plausible that whoever authored this footnote was confusing the Taiping with the Canton revolutionaries of 1902, headed by a group of leaders including Hong Xiuquan's nephew, who proposed the replacement of the emperor with an elected zonong 總統 (President), and this was again a movement drawing on foreign influences – other figureheads included Liang Qichao (one of the 1898 constitutionalists) and Yung Wing (the first Chinese person to graduate from Yale).
I’m likewise tempted to get in to the Taiping Rebellion and “Heavenly King” Hong Xiuqian’s attempt to carve out a divine thearchy of “God Believers,” with the wide backing of the oppressed Hokkien minority of the southeast coasts (another movement that the CPC has “claimed” as a proto-communist movement, in spite of Karl Marx’s own refutations of that (though, admittedly, his opinion was based on just pure orientalist racism than anything))… but honestly, someone else like probably /u/EnclavedMicrostate could do that better justice than me, so I’ll leave that to them.
There have been a few movements that can be (and to at least some extent have been) understood as answering your question in the affirmative. Probably the few that best fit what you’re asking, though, are those religious movements and uprisings that sought to overthrow the ruling regime and establish their own form of theocracy in its stead. Those include the two most major uprising under nominal auspices of the White Lotus Society in the 14th and 18th centuries.
In fact, the so-called “White Lotus” members of the 18th century were far more primarily tax protesters out of regions like Sichuan, than the true millenarian cultists they were named after by the authorities.
As a fundamentally millenarian movement, the White Lotus was a syncretic blending two major beliefs that had been imported to China from the west. The first was a type of Pure Land Buddhism that believed that believed the end-times were upon the world, and would be heralded by the coming of Maitreya, the successor to the current incarnation of the Buddha, Gautama. Maitreya’s coming would utterly remake the world and renew the Dharma, bringing about a total transformation to every possible aspect of life and living. From the Maitreyavyākaraṇa: gods, men, and other beings would...