The fire could have caused structural damage that increases the risk of future fires until repaired.
While a report that says "unsafe for use" can be ignored by a homeowner, the insurance companies tend to take them very seriously.
What about reading the lease for them to be able to prohibit activities that have a negative impact on insurance risk? Although the fact of something existing and being ordered not to be used isn't much of a mitigation.
I meant reading. I've seen blanket phrases that prohibit behaviors impacting insurance risk. As you said, that could mean anything, but is usually interpreted to mean non normal use. Using a feature of the apartment, like a fireplace, balcony, window plant boxes, etc., would be using existing features, but such activity could still be restricted.
But the fireplace is inside the unit, where the presumption is that even if it’s not specified in the lease, you have the use of it if it’s within the property you have rented. Maybe there’s some language about following rules set by the landlord, but it’s very likely that they have to be reasonable, and “we realized that it will cost us more to insure” likely isn’t a reasonable rule. Just like renting out a place with two bathrooms and then making a rule that you could only use one of them to save on plumbing costs also wouldn’t be reasonable.
The basic assumption is that the property owner carries insurance to cover the property that they’ve rented out. Lots of things increase insurance risk (including just having people living there). If you intend to prohibit certain uses of the property that you’re leasing to someone, it needs to be specified in the lease.
It can generally only be restricted if there is a legitimate safety hazard (that can't be remedied by the landlord) backed by an official legal notice, or an updated lease signed by the renter. Rent of a space implies access to and use of all areas and amenities in that space unless legally specified otherwise.
Fire inspectors CAN shut it down, but did they? So far all we have is the insurance company allegedly saying "no more fires". We have no idea if this is based on actual inspector action, or if what the insurance actually said to the landlord was "no more fires, or else your insurance rates go up until you fix the fireplaces". Or the landlord could just be lying to avoid having to do anything, we don't know.