Or perhaps some factory or mine whose product was too vital and must be run 24/7, which needed bright lighting, maybe with some attempt to hide its lights but it was never as dark as most houses were kept, again leading to public resentment, perhaps worry that it made nearby folk a target.
With many people being held under the inconvenience of blackouts I expect any exceptions would have caused a lot of comment.
Though the blackout was unpopular, being a considerable inconvenience to most people, the need for it was generally accepted, and it was not unexpected. As the threat of aerial bombing grew during the inter-war years the need for Air Raid Precautions (ARP) became apparent, exercises including trial blackouts were held (though not without controversy, the National Council of Civil Liberties querying whether they were a genuine attempt to protect the population or propaganda to justify armament expansion), gas masks were manufactured in massive quantities for distribution at the outbreak of war, evacuation plans were prepared and pamphlets were issued to all households. It was clear that the blackout depended on the community as a whole, so efforts were made to emphasise the universality and fairness of it, and though there were cases where courts were felt to be too lenient or draconian, in general it was observed to apply to all; technically government property was immune to prosecution, but it was recognised that exercising this immunity to avoid blackout fines would have been politically damaging and risk undermining the collective responsibility that the blackout depended upon.
Not in 1940; neither Britain nor Germany set out to mostly bomb at night, but both suffered unsustainable losses in daylight raids (the RAF by the end of 1939, the Luftwaffe during the Battle of Britain) and switched to night bombing. This dramatically reduced losses, as initially neither country had an effective way of countering night attacks, though as per previous comments also dramatically reduced accuracy. The British Chain Home radar system faced out from the coast, and could not track aircraft once they crossed over land (in daylight the Observer Corps reported visual sightings, by night this was obviously impractical).
Remember that technology was a lot less sophisticated then, while radar was in its infancy, a lot of general navigation for pilots still depended sight. Pilots were reliant on landmarks to help them ensure they were on course. Since a lot of these air raids took place at night, where visibility was already reduced, it would be more challenging for pilots to ensure that they are flying over their target. Since there were no targeting systems, blanket bombing was the standard strategy and once you release your payload, that's it. The lights off strategy made it more difficult for the pilots to be sure they were on course/ on target and mistakes like that were not uncommon.