Something that I have always felt that has been overlooked is that there was some pushback against the Lost Cause in the South, such as from the famed guerrilla leader Colonel John Mosby who famously noted that "I've always understood that we went to war on account of the thing we quarreled with the North about. I've never heard of any other cause than slavery." Was there an attempt to essentially "bury" the voices of Southerners that disagreed with the Lost Cause?
I apologize if any of this sounds like a defense or support of the Confederacy or Neo-Confederate movements, or a support of the Lost Cause myth. I absolutely do not intend for that to be the case. I've always been told there's a fair nuance in just nearly everything, and no narrative should go entirely unquestioned. Of course, this might be in the small sliver of cases where it's all summed up properly and there's nothing to be said.
If I should post this as a separate question, do tell me so. I'd be happy to finally get an answer to this that isn't taking one step outside uncritical and unthinking support for the pop narrative only to fall into a cesspit of Confederate apologetics.
In the first few decades after the Civil War, were there any Confederate politicians or military men of note (not just random Southerners) who actively opposed the notion of the new national unity/cohesion and argued for a second secession or the like?
OK, so getting to your second bit, I would venture that the biggest issue comes down to a misunderstanding of Union motivations, since it is true that the Union didn't explicitly launch the war as a crusade to end slavery, but rather that was an evolving part of the Union cause which didn't come to be fully embraced by the Union soldiers until a year or two into the conflict. Now, to be sure, I would stress that there isn't some sort of uncritical acceptance of that narrative within academia. You'll see it claimed by some, but it is thoroughly a strawman of, and modern histories do a very good job exploring the nuances of this topic, in my opinion. I would say if you have never been exposed to Civil War History beyond the most cursory kind of brief coverage you'd get in an 8th grade history class, it is entirely possible you would lack that understanding, and just think "Oh, it was a war to end slavery", but it just isn't present academically.
The Civil War always held a very enduring place in American memory, and I'll be interpreting your question slightly broadly to allow touching on the late '30s as that provides a very rich body of sources due to the 75th anniversary of the war. In the decades following the war, the popular memory of the war was shaped into one of national creation, unity, and reconciliation, which worked to slowly incorporate the Confederate veterans and their (mythical self-image) cause to commemoration of the conflict by all. Or at least that was how the public came to view it, but not always the men who had themselves fought. There was still a decided domination by the North which rubbed 'Johnny Reb' the wrong way, and many (but by no means all) a soldier on both sides long maintained enmity for their opponents. Thus, it was by no means a smooth process; one Union veteran was quite offended "with all the gush over the blue and the gray" that he saw at the 25th anniversary of Gettysburg in 1888, and accounts of the 1913 50th aniversary often comment on the awkwardness of North-South interactions, as many an aged Confederate veteran was less than pleased with how the Northern organizers apparently wanted it to “not to be a gathering of Northerners or of Southerners, but of American citizens, with one flag, one nation, and one history”. The Union veterans insisted the Confederate's flags must not be unfurled when marching, and a Union flag be held beside. So while thousands showed up from both sides, it certainly seems that the Union men had a better time revisiting, now in their 70s, their old haunts. (A side note. these anniversaries invited all veterans, not just those of Gettysburg. That location represented its primacy of place in the memory of the war).