It also seems intuitively odd that there would be indigenous horses like she claims, but there was no evidence of them in the Triple Alliance when the Spanish conquered it. AFAIK Mexico is perfectly hospitable terrain for horses.
Horses do well in Mexico and much of Latin America. It seems like the dissertation has a northern bias to it, not examining the accounts of the conquistadores further south.
Additionally, many of the indigenous peoples who were most dependent on the horse by the time they directly interacted with Europeans have other parts of their history intentionally left out of the news article (not sure if it's in the dissertation). There have been archaeological and anthropological studies that have found these peoples engaged in agriculture while also supplementing their diet with hunting. Many of these peoples were in groups that fragmented due to European disease and the agricultural societies they had (successors to Cahokia and other Mississippian civilizations) collapsed. Many horse-centric nomadic cultures only seem to have formed after this collapse, so the origins for such groups would have the horse present. European-based accounts of indigenous history often assumed that the natives had been static, and so mixing Eurocentric ideas of how old these cultures were when that itself has been called into serious question doesn't look great for the estimates of how old some of these histories are. So between the relative youth of some horse-centered cultures and the potential longevity of Pleistocene oral tradition, the inclusion of horses in oral tradition is almost meaningless for estimating dates.
However, there is the possibility that oral tradition preserved a history of Native American interaction with horses in Pleistocene North America. There are , and many oral traditions in Australia seem to refer to extinct Pleistocene fauna, as well. So the presence of horses in indigenous oral history isn't inherent evidence of horse survival, and considering Pleistocene horses were widespread, their presence in many unrelated cultures is not surprising.
The only evidence we have is oral history that could be describing now-extinct Pleistocene horses or modern European-reintroduced horses just as easily as it could be describing persistent horses.
Humans in North America definitely interacted with horses, but there is no fossil or genetic evidence for horses persisting here beyond the end of the Pleistocene, nor is there such evidence of horse domestication in the Americas preceding the release of horses by Europeans.
You take the hypothesis (all horses in America soon after Columbus were exclusively Spanish import or descended from such) and test that with contemporary digs and other evidence (oral narratives can matter, would be nice if they were recorded 100 years ago or more.).
Oy. The source material outside of the oral histories that Collin compiled do not seem particularly robust. The authorities she cites seem pretty suspect.