E. looks like /u/Iphikrates already provided an amazing answer when I was writing mine, but I'll publish mine since ours quite nicely have a different focus, he focusing on the classical period and I more to the archaic!
own shortsightedness. Having raised one too high it is not easy subsequently to hold him back; so here and now it is essential to consider all things well.".
But, perhaps even more importantly, Greeks start writing down laws: most famous of the many archaic laws we know are the Gortyn's Code of Crete (ca. 600 BC onwards) or laws of Dracon (fl. late 7th) and Solon of Athens (fl. early 6th c.). Now, this is important, because we start to have a sense of 'law' and 'constitution', proper procedure, councils of citizens etc. - a sense of higher justice and authority on what is right and wrong, something also tyrants should adhere to, rather than doing whatever they like just because they are tyrants. And, there were lot of experiences of tyrants that did not care about such constitutional dimensions, who simply wanted power out of personal greed and megalomania, rather than caring about societal order and communal good. Solon was in Greek tradition rather wrongly credited as being the 'founder of Athenian democracy' (might be that a tyrant was more accurate term to describe what he actually was), but already in his poetry, you can start to see that monarchy and tyranny in themselves have started to gain negative tones:
For instance, did later writers continue to view Peisistratos of Athens as a great ruler under a political environment different from their own, or did they shift to viewing him as a egomaniac hoarding power?
But it seems likely that it was the increasing sophistication of Greek states and their institutions, and the accompanying growth of civic consciousness, that made tyrannies increasingly unpalatable specifically in the later sixth century BC. As ideas like citizenship, equality, and the rule of law became rooted in Greek thinking about political communities, it would have seemed increasingly absurd to them that one man should be able to do whatever he wanted to the rest. The arrival of the Persians put the final nail in the coffin of tyranny. Persia was ruled by a monarch who was often styled a despotes over subjects the Greeks considered slaves. To make matters worse, the Persians often backed tyrants and dynasts as their agents of local government, increasing the Greek distaste for this unaccountable form of rule. As they developed systems that were more inclusive, more accountable, and more stable, they started seeing tyranny not as a feature but as an abberation, and eventually came to think that even murder was justified if it helped to get rid of them.
The negative meanings of tyrannos and despotes date back to the Ancient Greeks themselves. When the words were introduced into other European languages, they already carried the kinds of connotations that they have for us today.