The British Army famously wore twice-cocked hats throughout the Revolutionary War. In 1775, would people have looked at these hats as jarringly new-fangled, or just fashionable?
The thrice-cocked hat was indeed THE (men's) hat of the eighteenth century. I discussed its origins in the late seventeenth century in ; it seems to have been worn by most men, although in the earlier part of the century the size of the fashionable wig meant that fashionable men were not actually wearing it. However, it did not disappear overnight in 1800.
Hm, interesting! I haven't come across the contemporary reaction to the army's hats, but given the examples of military fashions crossing over in the 17th-19th centuries (cravats, mustaches, etc.), it would not surprise me if this were part of why twice-cocked hats became civilian fashion in the first place.
Oh, okay, that's fairly similar to the hat à l'Androsmane or à la Suisse - I don't think it would have stood out that much from the norm in the late 1770s. It's possibly a case of the uniform hats reflecting ordinary fashion.
One important thing to bear in mind when discussing the tricorn is that its shape as we recognize it today was not seen as a distinct type of hat. (The term does not seem to be used in relation to hats until well into the nineteenth century.) It was a typical round-crowned hat with the brim turned up ("cocked") three times. That is, it was a style of wearing a hat, but not a hat in and of itself.
The 1780s and 1790s are often set apart from the rest of the century because, well, they're significantly different. In literature, in politics ... and in fashion. The demise of this particular style of cocking the hat goes back to this period: in the late 1770s and 1780s, casualness, a lack of artifice, and "rural simplicity" became the watchwords of fashion in France, England, and America, and while they had a number of effects on various aspects of dress, in relation to hats, they made people more interested in styles that didn't have so much structure. This frequently meant the hat à l'Androsmane or à la Suisse, a version where only the front and back of the brim were turned up (also called a "bicorn" today), or where there was a slight point made in the front, but the overall effect was more wide than three-cornered. See and for examples. The French were particularly fascinated with the clothing associated with English squires and noblemen on their country estates, and so we also see the informal with a smaller brim, not turned up at all; another plate refers to this as a , or "charcoal-burner's hat", emphasizing its casual, working-class association. And for a final example, we have the , probably associated with Quakers of the period.