So, to get down to it, no written source prior to the modern period ever refers to the people of Ireland as Celts or Celtic. Medieval Irish sources do refer to Irish people using the words Gael and Gaelic (though those are the modern Irish post-reform spellings), so we know that Gael is a historically accurate word for the people who lived in Ireland.
The hypothesis that Celtic languages spreading to Ireland through elite replacement alone is quite interesting, but what analog is there for this kind of language shift in the historical record?
To make sure I understand, the problem is that Celtic languages were somehow introduced to Ireland without any corresponding archeological shift?
I am not well-versed in prehistoric European archaeology so I really have to defer to u/Typologyguy about the question of to what extent there were immigrants who brought the Celtic language with them to Ireland. However, what I think both of us are trying to say is that the art style that gets called "Celtic" by archaeologists, i.e. the La Tene style, should not be conflated too closely with the Celtic language identity, which is the source of the Irish identity as "Celts". The adoption of prehistoric La Tene art styles in Ireland (about which I know nothing) may have not happened by the same mechanism that the Proto-Celtic language came to Ireland.
This my be my fault, but I don't think you understood my answer, my point was that we do not have any evidence for Celts arriving in Ireland, bringing an art style with them. As for Newgrange, since the Celtomania of the 1990's there has been a pop culture perception of all things in Irish history from start to finish as being "celtic", which lumps together things which are variously Neolithic (Newgrange) and Medieval fusion styles (that "Celtic Knot" people are so fond of is part of a medieval fusion of Saxon and insular Irish art).
Celts and Celticness get added to the mix due to the reliance of antiquarians and historians from roughly the 17th century onward on classical Greek and Roman texts to add names and 'flavour' to Northern European peoples who had little to no writing before the Medieval period. Added to the fact that people began to do comparative linguistics and realised that the Irish and Scots gaelic, Welsh, and Breton languages were all closely related, along with the assumption that Breton was the last surviving holdout of the language of the Gaulish people (it isn't, it was introduced around the 5th century AD from Britain), the idea took shape in the minds of scholars that the Irish/Scots, Welsh/pre anglo saxon Britons, and the Bretons were the last surviving descendants of the people who Classical authors called Celts or Gauls.
Because La Tene items are now understood to have been introduced to Britain long before the arrival of Celtic languages, is it possible that a potential migration of Celtic-speakers to Ireland, whether elite or large scale, could simply be invisible to the archeological record?
What I'm wondering is if there could have been comparable Gaulish migration to Ireland that is similarly invisible in the archaeological record. We know through genetics that across history, a significant number of people from modern-day France have settled in Ireland. Do you think it's possible that a slow migration of large numbers of Celtic-speakers into Ireland, over centuries, could have made Ireland Celtic-speaking without any clear break in the Irish material culture?
found substantial ancestry from modern-day France and Belgium that could correspond with the arrival of Celtic-speaking peoples to Ireland. If Celtic languages did spread to Ireland from the continent through migration, this the kind kind genetic legacy we would expect to see.
Please correct me if I am wrong on this; To sum it up, over the years, the Irish have adopted this Celtic identity, despite not being Celtic? So therefore, the Irish people, for the most part, are not descended from Celts? Rather, it was an identity that they took on?