You're all kidding yourselves if you think the solution to the world's hunger crises will be found in one of Europe's smallest countries.
Okay so the Dutch peope can just keep their insanely massive housing deficit in order to keep food on the table of people living in other countries?
ITT: People across the world woefully unaware of the Dutch nitrogen crisis, it's relation to the Dutch housing crisis, the relative amount of nitrogen emitted by farms, and the percentage of food that we're not even producing for ourselves.
That's right, you also need an environment that can sustain the nitrogen emissions that farms like that bring, without the nitrogen emissions being a danger to nature and jeopardizing housing developments (which also emit nitrogen).
“Excess nitrogen in the atmosphere can produce pollutants such as ammonia and ozone, which can impair our ability to breathe, limit visibility and alter plant growth. When excess nitrogen comes back to earth from the atmosphere, it can harm the health of forests, soils and waterways.” Aug 11, 2022.
I read they article. The atmosphere is already 78% nitrogen. What is excess nitrogen? 79%? 80/81/85 more? The amount of nitrogen in the atmosphere is already causing the problems that are noted. It’s a part of our environment. It’s natural. It’s preposterous to think that we need to reduce the amount of nitrogen in the atmosphere to offset the “problems” that it causes.
The cause of this ‘nitrogen-crisis’ isn’t really a ‘planet-ending climate crisis’, but the environmentalists do try to tie it in with the panic around those crises. The dutch ‘nitrogen-crisis’ is mostly a bureacratic crisis: in the early 2000s a lot of municipalities decided to label patches of nature as protected nature (under the european ‘Natura2000’ labeling), partly because they got european subsidies for it, partly because the municipal clerks find it to give status to their municipality, but they didn’t think of the consequences of the Natura2000 regulations. These practices caused the Netherlands to have hundreds of small patches of protected nature, where the government is obligated to protect that nature ‘as it is’.
I see a lot of comments in this post siding with the plans, but this definitely is a controversial subject in the Netherlands, so i do want to give an opposing view: