IANAL or a loan expert but I just got a loan and there was explicitly something in the loan documents that stated that the loan could not be taken up by somebody else if I died. So I would check the terms of the loan and see if it contains such a clause. In any case, the loan is unlikely to be with the dealership, you'd need to talk to whichever lender owns the loan.
I think it would depend on what the value of the car is versus the remaining balance on the loan. For instance, if she had a loan balance of 5k and the car's blue book was 10k (used cars are in demand now), then it would be worth it to you to probate the estate. As the estate administrator, you could then sell the car, pay off the 5k loan since the car is securing the loan, and then whatever remains becomes part of the estate and can be used toward estate expenses. Depending on your state and how much you've put in toward expenses, you may not need to pay that balance to creditors. Look up "order of payment in estate" for your state to see what expenses take priority. There may be expenses you haven't thought of, like paying for a storage unit, etc.
If there are any further inquiries from creditors you can tell them there were no funds left in the estate after funeral expenses were paid. Don't agree to pay any creditors from your own funds, they are only owed by the estate.
Again, DO NOT agree to pay these creditors from your funds. You are NOT responsible for the debts that your mother had. The estate is responsible, legally, and the estate is not you.
First, you are NOT responsible for a parent's debts after they die. Creditors will try and get you to take responsibility, etc.; but this is a ploy to get you to pay them money they are not owed by you.
If they persist, inform them (in no uncertain terms) that they are to stop calling you, as you are not responsible for these debts, and then block their number if possible. The best policy with these sort of debt collectors / creditors is to engage with them as little as possible.