This is one of those questions that is impossible to answer adequately. I have never seen nineteenth-century evidence of a professional male sex worker. But the fact that I haven't seen the evidence doesn't mean that there is no evidence. The West is the largest region of North America and among all the expanse and all the decades that are perceived as belonging to the "Wild West," anything is possible.
It's very possible that there were men who exchanged sex for money with multiple male partners, but since sex between men was often prosecuted as a crime, a financial angle to the relationship is not likely to appear in the historical record (except, perhaps, diaries).
I did indeed mean 'men who had sex in exchange for money', though I agree that there's likely all sorts of interesting discussion to be had about people who would've been involved in the sex work industry, their genders, and how gender was relevant to those who made a living in the sex work industry more generally.
While the OP may have been misusing the term as a simple euphemism for "prostitute," he in no place clarifies that or says "men who have sex for money" (which would still include pornographers, leading to what I think would be an interesting discussion of how quickly photography became widely used).
The aversion in the present era to using the term 'prostitute' for those engaged in sexual acts in exchange for money or goods is primarily due to the stigma surrounding the term, but also an acknowledgement that sex work is just that, work.
> "The term [Sex worker] has been adopted as is it free of complicated, derogatory and sexist connotations which are more commonly associated with the term ‘prostitute’".
Sex workers in the modern context, certainly as understood from a medicolegal context, would refer to a person who offers sexual services, acts, or performances in exchange for money, goods, and/or services. This term would be sufficiently broad enough to cover what is being termed here as prostitution as well as erotic dancers and performers.