After the June war in 1967 Israel captured the Gaza Strip and Sinai peninsula from Egypt, the West Bank and East Jerusalem from Jordan and the Golan Heights from Syria. Following the war Israel was quick to state that the land was obtained through an inevitable war provoked by the Arab states, rather than a land grab. Indeed, Israel did not annex the land it had seized, as it did in the aftermath of the 1948-49 war. It did, however quickly separate east Jerusalem from the West Bank by merging it with West Jerusalem under a single municipality, as well as constructing jewish neighbourhoods in the area.
After world war 1 anti-semitism in Europe heavily increased which made the soil of Palestine more attractive for Jewish settlements. These settlements were often built on land inhabited by Palestinian workers. Due to in comparison enormous wealth of the European Jews they bought the land of Arab landowners and expelled any arabs on that land. In the 1920s mutual hatred arose between arabs that contradicted the British in their promise to establish a national Jewish homeland on the Palestinian territory.
Throughout the 1920s-1940s there were bloody clashes between the Zionist settlers and the Palestinians which reinforced the conflict. Both Palestinian nationalists and Zionist terror groups (e.g. stern group) bombed and attacked each other on quite regular basis. The British failed in ending these clashes and ended giving up their mandate in Palestine to the UN.
The increasing tension between (Palestinian) Arabs and Zionists started before the Six-Day war despite the fact that it was equally which was equally traumatic. (Fun Fact: the founding of the PLO and later popularity was very connected to the Six-Day War.).
This is correct. I would add, additionally, the broad sequence of events. Israel struck Egypt preemptively, arguing that the Egyptian blockade of Israel via the Straits of Tiran, its expulsion of UN peacekeepers in the Sinai, its threats of destroying Israel, its massing of troops on the Israeli border, its treaty meant to place Jordanian and Syrian forces under Egyptian control in case of war with Israel (Israel argued this was encirclement preparation for war), and (some argue, such as Michael Oren in Six Days of War) past aborted plans to start an offensive war against Israel in the 2 weeks prior to Israel's strike, constituted sufficient casus belli independently and together for the strike.