It sounds comparable to German-speaking immigration to the US. There are more people of German heritage than English in the US, but yet linguistically we remain English.
Just to quibble: the assertion that there are more people of German heritage than English heritage in the US is disputed. That assertion is based on US Census data, which has two major flaws:
1. It is self-identification data, and evidence has shown that Americans tend to identify with more recent or more "interesting" heritage. A person with three English-American grandparents but a German name is more likely to identify as ethnically "German" in the census than a person with three German grandparents and one English is to identify as "English.".
Conde, O. (2016). La Pervivencia de los Italianismos en el Español Rioplatense. Gramma, Año XXVII, 57 , pp. 83-39. Avaliable at:
SO, to sum it all up, the lack of a unified italian language among the massive italian migrant population along with strong state action prevented italian from de facto becoming a second language in Argentina. However, italian dialects left a strong imprint in the local variant of spanish, which is still going strong to this day.
However, italian did leave a strong imprint in the local dialect of spanish spoken to this day. First, it's influence (along that of many other inmigrant languages) gave rise to various local slangs (the most notable called "lunfardo"), which were widespread amongs the lower classes specially in the pampean region (where most of the inmigrants settled). Eventually many lunfardo words made its way to everyday usage, where they remain to this day. This would directly impact the local version of spanish, which is known as rioplatense spanish, and is spoken widely in Uruguay as well. It has a very distinct sound, quite different from peninsular spanish for example, and it incorporates many loanwords and expressions from italian. A few examples:
A cursory search in google scholar pointed me to a research project at the University of Hamburg with several published papers which more or less point in that general direction. Altought certain specific terms or words may not come from italian, the broad influence of italian dialects on rioplatense spanish seem to be out of the question.
Not only did many italian loanwords made it into everyday usage, but the the intonation of rioplatense spanish has been described by researchers as more colsely ressembling that of the southern italian dialects (most notable neapolitan) rather than any spanish dialect (Colantoni and Gurlekian 2004). On a purely anecdotal level, other spanish speakers (from Spain and Latin America) often describe rioplatense spanish as sounding "como un italiano hablando español" ("like an italian speaking spanish").
Birra is indeed of Italian origin, but the term is found in many other parts of the Spanish speaking world as well, including Spain, so I'm not sure to what extent you can argue it was because of Italian migration to Argentina specifically.