"True patriot"? Ashli was accused of reckless endangerment, malicious destruction of property and tampering with a car. She had three restraining orders issued against her.
Folks who do are being willfully ignorant. The facts are readily available to anyone who is interested in the truth. In the information age, ignorance is a choice.
Then she defied secret service Capitol Police orders to stand down and not climb through the window, forcing the officer to use deadly force to protect the representatives nearby.
> I've always held that capitol police should've shot anyone who crossed through a broken window or door into the Capitol Building while congress was in session and the VP was in the building. The common response to this line of thought on reddit is usually something along the lines of, "the crowd would have become enraged and swarmed them" but I disagree. Hell, we have video proof that as soon as Babbit was shot that crowd dissipated and no one else tried to climb through the window. I absolutely believe a few dozen bodies (and I don't think it would've taken that many) would have backed that crowd off immediately. I also believe that as soon as capitol police started firing it would've prompted faster response times from other law enforcement groups.
I think that if the police outside had just started firing into the crowd that could've gone poorly. (I also strongly disagree that would have been an appropriate response from the police.) That said I think that if they had shot every. single. person. that tried to climb past a broken door or window it would've backed off the crowd pretty quickly. (Also as soon as capital police had started shooting I am almost certain one or more other law enforcement groups would've shown up ASAP to support them) Even if the crowd had become enraged and surged only so many protestors could've entered the building at a time and those dead bodies would block those entry points slowing the crowd down further.
If you look at the footage immediately after she was shot the crowd of insurrectionists in that particular part of the building kinda backed off; it makes me wonder if the Capitol Cops and other law enforcement had sufficient manpower and leadership, if that mob in other areas would’ve backed off if they were met with the correct amount of resistance from the Cops.
Since it was only that single, quick incident, the majority of the crowd weren't phased by it - but I believe the insurrectionists were not at all mentally prepared for any sort of justified and violent pushback and were indeed very lucky that nothing more happened.