Do we have much of a sense of what impact such a turnover of heirs had? Did it cause any sort of instability for the regime, or was the sheer number of spares enough of a counterbalance to prevent any real concerns?
Additionally, how well established was line of succession, generally. You note it wasn't uncommon for the heir apparent to end up dead before they actually took the crown, so did this set up any sort of general lack of respect, with sons lower in the line of succession attempting to assert a claim?
The phenomena you point out where kings would have some or many of their older sons die before reaching maturity or before being able to take the throne and as such a younger son who had previously not been in contention for the throne takes over was likely a very real concern in ancient cultures. This most certainly happened with the transition in rule from Sennacherib to Esarhaddon in the Neo-Assyrian Empire, as Sennacherib describes the fact that his first choice of heir Ashur-nadin-sumi was killed by the Elamites during wars surrounding rebellions in Babylon. I would guess that this is much of the reason he destroyed the city, in revenge for killing his firstborn son. He ultimately chose Esarhaddon, a much younger son, as his heir, which seems to have likely caused jealousy as it is recorded that Sennacherib was murdered by his own elder sons for having been passed up the opportunity to rule.
Esarhaddon was definitely very scared of the same thing happening to him that happened to his father and so there are numerous letters discussing the loyalty oaths that were taken by the governors and other members of the nobility when he chose Ashurbanipal as his heir. Ashurbanipal had been much younger and it seems for this reason he was training to be a priest or scribe in his youth but was then chosen for kingship during that training. This is probably part of why he was literate, not simply in reading cuneiform signs but in being able to read the entire corpus of cuneiform literature. These loyalty oaths were intended to secure succession, though even this does not seem to have avoided conflict. Esarhaddon placed his eldest son Shamash-sumu-ukin on the throne in Babylon and the younger Ashurbanipal on the throne in Assyria, which ultimately led to war between the brothers.
This type of factionalism is very well attested in China as well (I've been playing too much TW:3K lately so my knowledge of China has improved significantly). The faction of eunuchs at the court, the Ten Attendants, began taking too much power and influencing the king in ways that ran afoul of the nobility, so Dong Zhou massacred the eunuchs, burnt down Luoyang and fled with the emperor. Eunuchs have always had a very interesting place in ancient societies, and one thing that I feel Game of Thrones does well is to emphasize the two different ways eunuchs were used by ancient empires. Varys is the type of eunuch who was an adviser and did not fight, while Grey Worm shows how eunuchs could be used in the military.
I responded earlier talking about Mesopotamia, but this is a very good question so I think it merits further response. I think the sheer number of heirs not only didn't act as a counterbalance for the heir dying, it actually caused significant factionalism within the court. There are many tales of especially powerful wives or concubines using their political power to get their child named as the heir, even if he was not the first born. It appears to me that many of the wives saw this as a competition to guarantee the success of their child over all the other children of the king.