Which I think are easiier for people to respond "yes" to than "should there be an end to separaton of church and state?" Epecially since they'd still want to keep other religions out, even as they angle for Nationalist Christian rule.
Christian Nationalists hate the ideals of America and the freedoms of their fellow citizens. They're wanting the antithesis of a free and open society; they want to control people's thoughts, because that's the only way their small-minded ideology can spread: to people who are too afraid to think for themselves.
It's an ideology that seeks to control cowards; to instill fear of a changing world; one that tells people their bigotry and ignorance is just misunderstood patriotism, and their desire to control others is right and natural.
Except they follow none of the things they preach, continuing a cycle of hatred and fear seems to be the only purpose of these sad people who have been brainwashed into thinking they have a common enemy, when their only enemy is themselves.
What really scares me is that extent of the purposeless rage, I really worry we're getting steered right into a society which will be constantly suffering from the cycle of violence and hatred (well to the extent we're not already, but it used to feel like it was getting better.).
Of course right wing extremism isn't just becoming more popular among Christians but also has appealed to followers of several conspiracy theories and has a large overlap with libertarians and objectivist among others as well. It's funny that all these people are on the same side since atheism is a pretty big part of objectivism and many libertarian beliefs, an example of many contradictions which makes analyzing modern American right wing politics so confusing and agonizing (or hilarious). But obviously the jews, secret Communist, somewhat disturbingly if you think long and hard about the foundation and development of the United States- liberalism, the secret dheworhruiqjwhwu3 behind the great replacement (it makes no godddamn sense) have all been roped into the "they" they must oppose at all cost. Then of course villifying minorities alienates those people, and now since they actually oppose you, well you were correct all along!
This is also why the continual refusal of the GOP to even acknowledge extremist right-wing paramilitary groups, let alone condemn them, is extremely worrying. It was the violent actions of the SS and the SA which created the impression of more overwhelming concensus then there actually was in Germany, allowing the Nazi's to extralegally act on their agenda while their formal power was still limited.
Most right wing media in the United States gives off an apocalyptic sense of dread. There's some nebulous enemy trying to actively destroy everything, be afraid and fear because they're coming for YOU They have adopted full on McCarthian rhetoric on anything with a "D" next to it - if you just listened to fox you'd think Joe Biden was the most radical Marxist there ever was. Even though the United States has not be in a Weimar like state of chaos, if you can shout that WE ARE BE AFRAID! Enough times and have enough people believe you, what's the difference?