This place has participated in other sketchy practices regarding wages and tips. For example, we just found out that for months they have been paying this phone person $2.13/hour, rather than the $7.25 she agreed to, though she makes almost $0 tips; she is currently fighting to correct this. And the owner has also taken portions of our tips at one point to give to a program at his son's school (I now know this is 100% illegal but its too far gone to complain). The problem with this place is that as soon as you complain and say something is unfair, they will fire you. Just this week the manager sent me home 20 minutes into my shift because I asked for the employee discount that we are entitled to, he refused and sent me home for "bad attitude." I guess if this continues my only choice is to report to DOL and find a new job.
As I said in another comment, they have also done other sketchy things like paying the phone girl 2.13 when she was promised 7.25 (this is her first job and she really just accepted the 2.13 because she thought it was normal) but we are fighting to get her the money she is owed. The owner has also taken money out of our tips for an involuntary donation to his kid’s school program, which is 100% illegal. Also force the waitresses to pay the bill for dine and dashes out of pocket. Etc etc.
Yes it is family owned. I worked here about 3 years ago and have found that when I pointed out the illegality or unfairness of how they treat the workers, I was fired. Previously there was a manager at this restaurant who would sexually harass and drunk text waitresses, including myself, and I showed these messages to the owner. The next time I came into work, I was told that I no longer worked there.
Sorry I updated location: Texas. My issue is that in order to make up for the tips they are not making, they are taking tips away from servers. So they technically ARE being paid in tips, however not tips that they earned themselves, but rather taking tipped money out of the pockets of other employees who did earn it. IMO it should be the responsibility of the restaurant to make up for the difference to reach minimum wage of $7.25, not the responsibility of the other employees to make up the difference. Of course this could just be an issue of whether that is moral rather than legal. May be completely legal, but that is what I am wondering.
This is almost certainly not legal. There are fairly specific requirements for valid tip pooling systems. Only employees who are customarily tipped may participate in the tip pool (this portion may ), all tipped employees must contribute an equal percentage to the pool, and employees must be notified of the amount they are required to contribute to the tip pool. There are also recordkeeping requirements that it seems unlikely your employer is meeting, based on the vagueness of this scheme. See this for more information.