I might be late here, but the best course of action would be to file a complaint with the CFPB about the DC.
I work for a debt collector on their regulatory complaints team. You could also do the same with your state's attorney general or the one based in the state the DC is in. I would not suggest complaining through the BBB since they aren't an actual government-based regulatory agency.
I can almost guarantee you that someone from the DC will contact you in 15 days (max 60) to resolve the debt. The CFPB doesn't mess around, and filing the complaint will force the company to review their records (including call recordings) to ensure they are in compliance.
There are federal regulations that collectors MUST abide by, otherwise you can sue the everloving shit out of them. Some are just basic things like only calling between regular business hours (9-5), not disclosing the nature of the call until verifying the debtors identity, etc.
One of the BIG ones is that you have to submit a collection notice IN WRITING as well as with a phone call. If they do not, it is not an enforceable demand. I believe this is the same with a settlement offer — but don’t take my word for that because to be honest I often did overhear people going ahead and just paying outright over the phone when offered on a phone call. This is because we always recorded our phone calls (which by the way must also be legally disclosed to debtors), so there was recorded evidence of an offer made and accepted.
He made an offer to settle the debt to the collection agency, on what was most definitely a recorded phone conversation. By doing so he already admitted to the debt and can still be sued for the full balance. You have to be very careful how you word your conversations with collection agencies. For a measly couple hundred dollars I would offer to pay the whole debt, but it has to be removed from his credit report. Of course get it in writing first. $200 is not worth bad credit. It's a quality of life issue. Credit score effects job prospects, ability to buy or rent a home, loan availability, interest rates and cost of insurance.