I think what’s missing is that the Germans actually set up a repair camp in Slovakia for their gear in ukraine. For United States to give the Abrams they’d basically have to do the same, but inside ukraine near the front. This is why everyone hopes ukraine will get leopards. Which they should, with Bradley’s. Abrams would be nice, but not practical…it’s like giving them a bunch of aircraft carriers….by the time they figure out how to use them effectively, the wars over.
In a post (or pre) war scenario yes, send them Abrams if that’s what they want. In a wartime scenario, every expert, at least that I’ve seen, would recommend to consolidate and not convolute supply lines and logistics as much CJ as possible.
This is not some secret, the M1 Abrams is an excellent tank but it was designed by the country with far and away the best logistics in the entirety of military history, it’s a tank the US can maintain, many countries would not be able to maintain it, Ukraine (with all the other shit they have to maintain) most likely would not be able to.
This is all tanks and is why even though the US is extremely effective with the Abrams, countries like Saudi Arabia are not, they use them on their own and they get isolated, flanked and take an rpg to the rear turret or engine block. Armored warfare doctrine is equally as important is quality equipment.
More modern tanks can withstand a lot more than the old Leo 2A4 for example, especially concerning side armor and IED protection. But yes, driving into towns, remaining stationary for long without infantry and/or drone protection is just silly for any tank. Surviving is one thing, but once immobilized, it becomes a liability.
I think that has to do with a show of long term commitment. If Germany sends or allows other countries to send Leos into Ukraine, Germany bears all responsibility for this, including setting up maintenance and supply infrastructure for years to come, and that will take time and won't come cheap, at a time where supply chain and energy self reliance are still in the early stages.
Ukraine isn’t doing any of the maintenance for the western equipment they are receiving so I’m not sure valid that argument really is, especially considering that everyone was shitting on Germany for citing that very same argument when it came to Leo2s and why they rather helped supply Ukraine with t72s instead of western tanks.