Well, the most likely outcome is that the suit will settle out of court. But since it is your insurance company doing the suing, even if they lose, it doesn't really effect you any other than you won't get your deductible back.
You'd have to ask your insurance company about the priority of payments, but yes, if their subrogation department is successful, you should get at least some of your deductible back.
3) Whether or not you get back your deductible excess has nothing to do with the priority of payments. Sirwired's post was incorrect when linked the two. The only thing that matters insofar as whether you receive your excess is whether or not the loss was included within proceedings, and that is a specific question for your solicitors or the solicitors who were instructed by your insurers. Some solicitors out of error will not include excess, other times it can be intentionally not included if the insured does not have comprehensive legal cover (however in practice I, and a large proportion of insurance lawyers, would still include excess as a head of claim anyway given that the insured is a proxxy-client and it is acting within their best interests to do so). If your excess is included in proceedings, and you are successful, then you will get paid.
I hope that this helped even if it is 4 months late, but for future reference for your own benefit, please do not rely on reddit for legal advice.
The part which is misleading is that he has specified that nearly all accident suits settle out of court. It is misleading because whilst it is statistically true that the majority of claims settle out of court, the circumstances of your specific case may be that you are dealing with a third party who is particularly insistent on having an argument over liability and wants to defend the matter to court. And, as per my answer to option 1, if this is the case then it becomes likely the case would end up in court. Therefore, although a lot of suits settle outside of court, using that statistic in this circumstance is a red-herring as the full context of your claim may be one in which a court attendance will be likely.