Not too long ago the Mexican DoD (I forgot their real name) was hacked by a "Guacamaya group" or something like that and they basically said "Hey we got everything the DoD had in their servers, we did it like this, oh and btw we noticed there were like 30 other backdoors, so we're probably not the first ones to hack the DoD"; anyway they're not gonna drop all the information on the public because there is 'a lot of sensitive information' which most likely means that a shit ton of past and current important people in the government are in some way strongly involved with organized crime, and releasing the info would end with a shit ton of 'tying lose ends', not to mention the loss of any legitimacy the gov. has in the eyes of the Mexican public.
So yeah, it's basically common knowledge that the gov. Is heavily crooked and plays a mayor role in organized crime, the public just needs hard proof of it, but tbh the hard part is not proving that the gov. Is crooked, it's cleaning it up without turning Mexico in an actual Warzone.
The Mexican drug cartels are some of the most dangerous cartels in the world. They are armed to the teeth (at this point semi-military factions), and will continue to receive arms from exploiting weapons loopholes and weapons laws in the US that allow many weapons to flow South to Mexico (nicknamed the Iron River). Not only do they have access to assault rifles, but they have grenade launchers, armored vehicles, and heavy machine guns. The cartels receive lots of revenue from taking advantage of the drug market in the US, and are producing and selling highly demanded drugs such as fentanyl and cocaine. In addition to drugs, they have entered into other profitable industries such as Avocados. With lots of lots of money and power, they have considerable political clout in the corruption-infested Mexican government, and have even challenged the government when they conduct operations to capture important members of a cartel, such as the Battle of Culiacan, where they committed so much violence and took hostages of Mexican serviceman when Mexico captured El Chapo’s son, that the president ordered his release to stop further violence(link to battle:
The cartels also have lots of experience in their operations, and have diversified the methods they use to get illegal pharmaceuticals to the drug-hungry US.
There is probably a reason, maybe even along the lines as to why the US is not capable to control a bunch of lowlife junkies within their more-than-decently developed borders keeping the demand for drugs going strong.
Yep, it’s honestly not very clear to me at all whether legalizing drugs in the USA would at this point help reduce the power of Mexican gangs. Mexico is a weakly centralized failing state in a lot of ways at this point, so even if a different US drug policy might have helped 50 years ago it doesn’t follow it would help now.
TL; DR for the book (not sure I recall correctly all of the detail though) - yes, American drug demand is the underlying source of the problem and the various wars on drugs made it worse. However, a great many Mexican politicians essentially ran the state as an extremely violent protection racket for the drug runners. It is not at all obvious that you can turn back the clock to get a lower violence equilibrium.