I just wanted to share the Rufus so as to give an example of a description of a Patrician having a hair colour other than brown and/or black. In respect to Nero, I got him confused with Caligula, so the patrician ancestor I was referring to would actually be his great-great grandfather.
Also, I am a bit curious: you mention Tiberius in relation to Nero, but Nero's father was Gnaes Ahenobarbus, and his benefactor was Claudius. I know Emperor Nero was described as fair skinned and red of hair, but if you are referring to another Nero, I may be referring to the wrong one.
Regarding Nero, I also stated that I was referring primarily to the early and mid Republican eras, as when the Republic came to control most of Western Europe and the Mediterranean world, the definition of Patrician became murkier, and lost almost any clear definition during the Empire as politics, Civil War, and Imperial favour led to a massive change in the people that would be considered Patrician, particularluly after mass death due to civil war and political purges. The Empire treated patrician more fluidly, and therefore it is almost impossible to say there were a few distinctly patrician traits, outside of 'favored by the emperor', and 'did well in the last civil war'. Near anyone could claim patrician lineage, and have that lineage affirmed by a favourable emperor, and so many did. Additionally, the empire saw a massive expansion of politically motivated adoptions (a practice already present in the Republic) that makes the idea of Patrician lineage even less identifiable as an indicator of genetic or cultural lineage.
TL;DR: No. fuck no. Absolutely not. Any implication otherwise is inaccurate to the point of incredible stupidity.
Long story: the Romans, unsurprisingly, had predominantly Mediterranean/Italic features, and limited interactions with the Nordic peoples until the later Imperial and Byzantine eras. In the Early Republican era, Romans almost exclusively interacted with Greek, Italian, and African people, with some interactions with the Italicized Cisalpine Gauls, and as the Republic grew, they interacted with every group from Numidians, to Persians, to Nordic peoples. However, there is little if any evidence to show that the people of Northern Europe - even the Britons - were ever prevalent enough for their stereotypical traits to become predominant in any significant Roman group (outside of the Nordic Varangians and the odd Northern European mercenary group that the Byzantines loved to use). Nor are there, to my knowledge, any examples of a Patrician having any hair/eye color other than brown and/or black (and, in fact, most descriptions don’t even mention such things), with ‘fair’ hair simply referring to well kept, slightly lighter brown hair, and ‘fair’ skin referring to smooth, tan-less, and uncalloused skin typical among the upper classes of any society of the time, regardless of skin color. It is worth noting that the Patrician class was a VERY small group that included the descendants of the founding families of Rome until Augustus began the practice of elevating significant people to it. Patricians are not the same thing as nobles, but again, what we would consider nobles were predominantly drawn from nearly every major ethnic group the Republic/Empire came to dominate, which never included any Nordic people. Depictions of famous and/or Noble Romans as more Nordic generally stem from the post-Renaissance era, or (perhaps more hilariously) stem from an ex post facto redefinition of Nordic features basing them on Renaissance or post renaissance paintings and artworks to justify racist beliefs in the 20th century.
First, again let me emphasize that this is outside my usual area of comfort. However, upon some quick online research, you are correct regarding Rufus, with two caveats: 1) as I said before, what Romans considered 'red' hair and 'fair' skin is not what we consider them today. Given the geography of Latium and the Mediterranean as a whole, such traits are incredibly unlikely. A Roman would likely consider someone with reddish-brown hair as red haired, even when now a days we would consider them brunette or a darker auburn. And 2) I would not personally consider red hair a Nordic trait, so was not speaking about it specifically. I associate red hair with Irishmen, who I would consider a Celtic group, despite the later Norman conquests.