I know that. I obviosuly took some for school. For the staff that don't feel comfortable with the vaccine yet, we just wanted to know if we had any loop holes. Like, I'll get vaccinated when I want to, not because my employer says to.
Also, If you choose to get vaccinated, I would get proof that you were required to do so to maintain your employment. At least this will provide some avenues if you should happen to have any adverse reactions to the vaccine.
If an employer requires a vaccine then any side effects from that vaccine will be covered as a work place injury. As you know the compensation from the employer would be greatly different for the OP when it comes to a work place injury vs a non-work related injury. So in that sense yes the Employer would be responsible.
Secondly, I agree that the OP most likely would not be able to sue the employer. Previously nobody has been able to hold an employer responsible in this manner for any other vaccine. However, all those other vaccines were FDA approved vaccines while the COVID vaccines are Emergency Use Authorization. How this, if at all, would impact any lawsuit isn't clear. I find it extremely unlikely that it would matter in the end but in the legal world you never really know.
Therefore it would only be prudent for the OP to retain proof that the employer required the vaccine.
Yes, a private employer can require you to provide proof of COVID vaccination as a condition of employment.
Some very interesting case law on that and the nexus between a someone's vaccine reaction and their employment and whether the getting vaccines benefits the employee or just the employer or both. I need to read more.
u/ihascontract gave a really interesting informative reply below regarding workman's Comp. Please read their reply below.
So care to actually cite any of these avenues you claim getting proof it was for maintaining employment would open? If you think somehow the Employer would be responsible if OP has an allergic or other reaction that certainly won't be the case.