If the author knew enough to know why rifles and shotguns aren't even remotely the same things, then they'd also know enough to realize that turning a pistol into a short-barrelled rifle just turns it, functionally, into a very shitty rifle.
It's shitty bc it is either still using pistol caliber ammunition, or if it was designed to use rifle cartridges, then the barrel lenh is way out of sync with the specs that rifle cartridges are designed for which ruins accuracy, energy, and can make bullets hit things backwards, sideways, and miss.
>if it was designed to use rifle cartridges, then the barrel lenh is way out of sync with the specs that rifle cartridges are designed for which ruins accuracy, energy, and can make bullets hit things backwards, sideways, and miss.
TL;DR: To benefit from a rifle form factor, 3 things need to happen: 1) it needs to shoot rifle cartridges 2) the barrel lenh needs to be rifle lenh because that's what rifled cartridges are designed for 3) the twist rate of the barrel rifling needs to make the bullet spin at the right number of revolutions that the cartridge was designed for. Since adding a brace doesn't affect any of those things, braces should not be of any concern.
The only advantage a braced pistol has is when it was designed for pistol calibers and someone wants to make it a little easier to shoot a pistol caliber accurately at the expense of added weight and overall size. But, it isn't going to make a 9mm shoot like a rifle bc the barrel lenh still remains pistol lenh.
And we’ll agree that a pistol braced AR is like a small crappy rifle, and we shoot them like rifles, not like pistols. If the rule is designed to stop guys in the 20s from walking into banks with sawed off BARs with shortened stocks, then i think it’s pretty clear that pistol braced ARs are covered. Do i think the NFA is stupid for trying to protect us from this? Yes.
Yes. Was I not clear? Lol I'm not worried about the hearing status of gun owners. Range shooting uses earmuffs anyway. Suppressors are banned because of their possible use in helping commit crimes. Idk how I wasn't clear when I implied that the absolute freedom to own guns was NEVER the intentions of the second amendment?