You mention that prehistoric mothers would almost always be in contact with their babies; would that include while sleeping? I ask because nowadays mothers are told not to sleep in the same bed lest they accidentally smother them. Is it less of a concern without modern beds?
Yep, the problem is not co-sleeping but with our beds. As most ancient societies did not live in multi-room houses, sleeping children would be very nearby. Even when people did live in multi-room houses (neolithic Near East etc) the most comfortable place to sleep was on the roof which still allowed the family to co-sleep. Of course as you mention there's no evidence for any which way, but the lack of beds, bed rooms, and the necessity of sleeping in one part of the house as a family all adds support to a co-sleeping model. I've talked about how architecture and how/where we sleep fits into many other aspects of our society and individuality which focuses on Africa, and yes there are examples of families sleeping in a giant group and as you would suspect they slept on mats and not a mattress. But even when people have beds this doesn't mean that children don't sleep nearby, an example from a village in modern Egypt: "Families often sleep in one room, with parents and children on the platform bed, and adolescents on floor mats or divans." from .
Thanks for the answer, for anyone wondering about exactly how traditional forager societies raise their children and how it differs from the usual Euro-western tradition, here are some links...
Eleanor Scott tells us that infants in "traditional" societies cry much less than those in western societies due to different ways of parenting. Infants generally cry for something they need, often food or comfort. [Another quick break here to go comfort my infant. She couldn't time these better.] Scott says that babies are continually carried or worn in slings by women much of the day and night, and suckled when needed. This almost continual comfort and feeding would minimize the need for an infant to cry. Scott also emphasizes the constancy of walking (a feature of Paleolithic and foraging life)with an infant on one's side, inducing a calming effect. Basically, babies cried less in these "traditional" societies because they were attended to more and less often left alone. We must also consider that Paleolithic babies would have had a community to support them, not just the parents. Levi-Strauss mentions a Tacuna myth in which the hero Monmaneki and his wife went off to hunt, leaving their infant in the care of its grandmother, to sleep in her arms. So even when the mother must be away from her child, someone else in the community manages the care. Collective care (and even collective nursing), would have been typical for many of your Paleolithic ancestors, rather than relying on simply mom and dad. Scott claims that the relationship with which human infants were accustomed to throughout prehistory, in which their needs were met without frequent crying and a near constant companionship, has been fractured in western cultures. I believe this gets at two parts of your question: your baby (and mine) cries more because of the way our culture practices parenting, and people in the past were taking care of their babies just fine, if not "better" in the sense that they cried less than ours.
If you are interested, Eleanor Scott's book The Archaeology of Infancy and Infant Death was the source for much of the theoretical answer here, specifically related to crying. Güner Coşkunsu's volume The Archaeology of Childhood: Interdisciplinary Perspectives on an Archaeological Enigma has a broad discussion of other topics of childhood in archaeology, including the visibility of children, children's roles in prehistoric society, childhood death and burial in prehistory, and even evidence of kids playing in the Ice Age.