What are some of the basic investigation tools for deciding if artwork on pottery should be used as examples for military history. Also how are those tools used to decide witch cultures artwork should or shouldn’t be used to further knowledge of say, how soldiers held a particular weapon.
You ask how scholars decide which culture’s depictions to use when analyzing how specific weapons were used (or held). There is no simple answer to this, as different academics and traditions treat this differently. For a single type of weapon (or piece of armour) used across cultures – like the aspis shield – scholars tend to look most closely at the culture that first produced both the art and the weapon. However, in this case, there is a plethora of evidence from other parts of the Mediterranean (especially Italy) that can help us understand the object itself. Artificial disciplinary boundaries within Mediterranean (i.e. “classical”) archaeology (and classics/ancient history) have played a significant role in preventing this from happening to any significant degree, though, and I think here you can find an answer to your question. The academic background of the scholar is what primarily determines to which evidence they look in trying to understand a particular phenomenon, whether it be military kit or something else. Returning to the example of the aspis, students of Greek warfare routinely ignore evidence from ancient Italy, whether it is the production of Etruscan or Italic peoples, or from the “situla culture” which existed north-east of what is today Italy. Always be careful to think about the background of an author you’re reading and to question what evidence they may be ignoring (either accidentally or wilfully) because of this.
So this is a very complex question that focuses on pottery and military history, but what you actually want to know is how archaeologists (and art historians) interpret figurative art. Because the skills necessary to work with vase-paintings are essentially the same as for any other medium, and the topic of your inquiry doesn’t really matter, whether it’s military history, gender issues, religion and mythology, or anything else.
Another answer to this question might be to look at the way that the product of one social group depicts members of another social group. A good example is the Eurymedon vase, an Attic red-figure vase of the fifth century BC, which shows a Greek man with an erection coming up behind another man in a Scythian or oriental costume, who is bent over. The inscription identifies this figure as Eurymedon, which may (or may not) be a reference to the Battle of the Eurymedon River, where the Athenians had bested the Persians. Is this figure then a source for how “Persians” dressed? The only way to decide that issue is by comparing it with evidence from the Persian Empire itself.