48% of Georgians are conservatives and will vote against a Democratic senate majority every time. Even if that means they're putting an incompetent lunatic into office. He could be relied upon to vote in lockstep with the GOP. That's all they cared about. It's why nothing broke through. You could have video footage of him throwing puppies off a cliff and they would have still voted for him. At no point was a Georgia Republican voter going to vote for a Democrat.
If a seat that was democrat goes Republican, it’s a stretch to say only republicans voted for the person. Even if it isn’t the case in this particular seat, there were democrats in New York at least saying they voted Republican out of protest.
The point was more to send a message to the national party in hopes of helping New Yorkers in the long term, even if it meant sending more republicans to office in the short term. The quality of the candidate wasn't as as high on the agenda.
New York isn't a republican bastion by any measure. This wasn't about republicans trying to make sure their team won, it was about democrats trying to send a message to the national party. When the democratic party took power in 2020, one of the first things they should have done was repeal Trump's SALT deduction which unfairly targeted people in blue states like New York. Failure to do so turned off a ton of voters and it cost the party up and down the ballot in New York.
Yeah, for what it's worth, the NY Democratic party is pretty poorly run. Dems have an enormous advantage with the two Senators, the Governor's office, and the President. Outside of that, a lot of local politics here is just kinda phoned in. I live on Long Island (not in this guy's district) and I couldn't believe how little outreach the Dems did compared to the Republicans. I don't even remember the names of the Democrats I voted for... Across the rest of NY the Republicans gained a lot of ground. Really a failure of the statewide and local Democratic organizations- years of taking votes for granted finally ended up with this bozo getting elected.