No joke I think only one of our challenger 2 has been destroyed in combat, Correct me if I’m wrong but it took 3 anti tank missiles and 14 Rpg rockets and was back in service after 12 hours of repair.
A tank can be destroyed by an anti-tank missile (depending on the situation), but so can just about anything else. Tanks are actually pretty damn hard to destroy though. This is quite useful in a war zone.
And then there is the tactical deployment of such weapons. On their own these are nearly useless without support. Needs to be combined with infantry, other fighting vehicles, support and a command that knows what its capabilities are.
If you want to overrun enemy positions, or retake ground, that's where tanks are really useful. Yeah, they're a bit expensive, but everything in war is expensive. It's better than waves of unsupported conscripts.
It's not a real time strategy where conscripts cost 10 points and a tank costs 100 points. Tanks are not that expensive (at least, not to buy, keeping them fuelled and running in a war zone can be tricky). Good infantry actually 'cost' a lot. If a tank can "beat" a small bunch of infantry (yes battles are more complicated than that), then it's actually pretty good value. If a $6 million dollar tank saves the lives of a squad of infantry by doing a job that they would have to risk their lives for, I'd say it's worth it (and so would the infantry). This is especially true when it's a good tank that doesn't kill the crew when it's destroyed (Russian tanks have the ammo next to the crew, and it has a nasty tendency to explode killing the crew and blowing off the turret).
And the Ukrainians manning them will have a far,far better chance of survival/escape from the tank than anything they're using now if they're hit by another tank or a anti tank missile/RPG. Catastrophic instant 'cook offs' like we've seen with so many Russian tanks, would be very unlikely, given the 'blow out' panels and separate ammo storage in Western tanks, designed to stop such a thing from happening.