I find this very, very unlikely, in most circumstances at least. There are two issues I see; 1) dinosaur fossils are usually found in remote areas with difficult terrain, and 2) dinosaur fossils are very difficult to recognize unless you're specifically looking for them.
It's very, very uncommon for dinosaurs in any degree of completeness to be at the surface in a recognizable form, especially since surface exposure is a result of weathering, which soon destroys the fossils.
Fossils occur in sedimentary rock layers, which need to be exposed through weathering at the surface for people to find them. Vegetation obscures fossils from sight and root action can break them apart, so arid areas are especially good for locating fossils. Therefore, dinosaur fossils tend to be found in rugged badlands or deserts that are sparsely inhabited or traversed. The major fossil localities of the present day - the badlands of the Western U.S. and Canada, the Gobi desert, and the Sahara - were probably little explored by people from the cultures you are asking about.
I’m in west Texas and we have quite a few fossil sites around here and quite a bit of archaeological evidence of nomadic tribes. Also near us is a “dinosaur park” that has dinosaur footprints that have been undisturbed since they were left there. There’s also evidence there of nomadic tribes just from the historical record. Is it possible other sites had these preserved footprints and associated them with known reptiles and amphibians?
The first realization of dinosaurs as giant extinct reptiles goes back to Great Britain in the early-mid 1800's. There was a pre-existing interest in fossil creatures in the area, as exemplified by who was instrumental in the discovery of several important extinct animal fossils in the 1820's, although none of them happened to be dinosaurs. The linked paper has an interesting write-up of Anning and the early history of paleontology.
Adrienne Mayor, The First Fossil Hunters: Paleontology in Greek and Roman Times (Princeton University Press) - for the opposing argument. This seems to be the work from which a great deal of modern speculation about the fossil origins of mythological creatures is derived. She details arguments about the role of pygmy elephants in cyclops myths, among others. One claim of hers I find particularly untenable is that Protoceratops fossils were the inspiration for the gryphon in Greek mythology - Protoceratops fossils are common but restricted to Mongolia, so it seems very unlikely that the Greeks would have ever seen one.
For these reasons, I find it exceedingly unlikely that fossil remains were the inspiration for any mythological creatures, save for possibly cyclopes, as the pygmy elephant skulls on which they may have been based were subfossils that were easily accessible to Mediterranean peoples. Dinosaur fossils in particular are so inaccessible and difficult to recognize that I am very skeptical of any claim that they are the root of dragon myths around the world.
While this has no direct connection with the fossil theory, a near total lack of representation of dragon bones -- or bones of any kind in surviving Chinese mythology may be a hint that it may not be indicative to the situation in prehistoric China.
While China has a history of archaeology dating back over a thousand years, systematic excavation of the bones are never seen both for the cultural taboo and for the lack of value.