On the direct reasons and the situation that led to Japan allying with Germany and Italy during the Second World War, with contributions from u/Lubyak and u/Starwarsnerd222 should be a good read for you. (Don't forget Lubyak's previous posts on the matter which they link to in that thread.).
Yes. Pearl Harbor was absolutely part of a desperation move by Japan, whose leaders saw themselves boxed into a corner with no way out other than a massive gamble. This is not try and excuse them of fault though, because the whole reason they were in this situation in the first place is because Japan was embarked on an escalating war in China, and Japan would only accept peace on Japanese terms. The hope was that by crippling the American fleet at Pearl Harbor, the Japanese would be able to quickly occupy their targets in South East Asia and build up their defences in the Pacific. The follow up was that the United States would be unwilling to bear the cost of a long war to overcome those defences, and be willing to come to a negotiated peace favorable to Japan.
Part of the reason is that Japan didn't necessarily declare war on the U.S. due to worries about American influence. After all, Japan had--in the 1920s--had a period of relatively stable democratic rule in the Taishō Democracy. While this would ultimately collapse in the 1930s as militarists grew in power within the Japanese government, democracy was not something utterly alien to Imperial Japan. Rather, the decision to go to war with the United States was the culmination of a long, complex process inextricably tied to the ongoing war in China, and Japan's efforts to extricate themselves from that war. I go into that question in some depth , but the short version is essentially that Japan in 1941 was desperate. The war in China had drained its resources and soured relations with the U.S., who were halting exports to Japan. The Japanese and the U.S. were at loggerheads over Japanese policy in China, with each demanding concessions the other was unwilling to provide. To simply pack up and withdraw from China risked a coup from the Army to halt such an order and would seem another humiliation foisted on Japan by the West. At the same time, American military strenh was poised to increase dramatically. If Japan was going to act, it would have to act now or risk being unable to do so later. The move to the South was seen as a way to end the war in China, and the attack on Pearl Harbor was meant to guard the flank of the southward advance by delaying the American counter attack, and perhaps even forestalling the war altogether.
And yes, by 1941, Japan had defeated the Qing Empire in the First Sino-Japanese War, the Russian Empire in the Russo-Japanese War, occupied German colonies in World War I, invaded Manchuria in 1931, and launched a full scale and devastating invasion of China in 1937. The Imperial Japanese Navy was the third largest fleet in the world, after the British and the Americans. So, Japan was absolutely capable of being a threat to other nations, and throughout the 1920s and 30s, both Britain and the United States recognised the threat of war with Japan, and planned accordingly.
// Also I still don’t get Pearl Harbor your saying to keep the USA from potentially intervening in Japans war against China, Japan launched a surprise attack on Hawaii which ultimately lead to the USA to winning the fastest war in history, dropping two nukes? (I have no idea if it was the fastest war in history, don’t sue me).
I briefly read the link and I’ll read more later but my second question is why would Japan fight the USA because of their western influence on the east just to lose the war and become one of the most democratic and westernized Asian countrys ???