If I can ask. Would Braudel have thought that countries who had monopolies and duopolies to be capitalist? What about countries where a great deal was somewhat free market but the country did own the means to something like oil?
I am of course trying to not politicize by naming countries. I hope my question is okay. It's a bit long and lacks specific places or times but I'd appreciate any info or articles that you may know of. I am American so the economy under FDR is something I'm interested in and how it relates to capitalism and the government.
This is so interesting, and directly addresses the free-floating pondering of “what is capitalism?” that I keep coming back to, but I have a question...
So the challenge here is to sort those two different reasons for resemblance or commonality in looking at something like capitalism. Which commercial systems used in past societies have some form of ancestral relationship to modern global capitalism? And which simply resemble it because they had some similar functions in a similar human environment? (Say, allowing merchants to keep track of goods and sales over long-distance trade routes while ensuring that a centralized state administration got its cut through taxation while also linking sites of primary production with sites of market exchange.) Long-distance trade in the Incan Empire and its Andean predecessors wasn't part of any world-system prior to 1492, and it can't be said to be an institutional ancestor of modern global capitalism, but it had resemblances to similar commercial systems in similar states in world history.
Gunder Frank was working off of the global history of capitalism advanced by scholars like Braudel and Immanuel Wallerstein and Eric Wolf and work like Janet Abu-Lughod's Before European Hegemony, which argued that there was a "world-system" of commerce that not only preceded modern Western capitalism but within which the West was something of an underdeveloped periphery, with South Asia and East Asia (specifically southeastern China) being the core or metropole of the world system between 300-1400 CE.
Just to add a bit to what has already been said, the dependency theorist Andre Gunder Frank, along with his collaborator Barry Gills, has argued that there has only been one "world-system" of commerce ever, that this system is approximately 5,000 years old, that its core is southeastern and central China, and that it has in effect been capitalist from the outset.