When so many conservatives basically believe the government shouldn’t exist and individual rights are preeminent to anything else, how do you square that with labeling them all fascists? They’re basically two opposite ideologies.
OK, fair enough. So your view is that anyone voting for candidates in one of two the major parties necessarily embodies the essence of those parties, even if they vote a certain way out of a “lesser of the evils” situation. For example, if someone voted for Joe Biden solely because they understood the existential threat that Trump represents to democracy, they necessarily are a corporate centrist — regardless of their actual philosophy, whether they voted for Sanders in the primary, etc.
I’m arguing that it’s incredibly dumb to label every single person who votes Republican “fascist” (speaking as someone who votes democrat). Is every single person who votes democrat a centrist corporate shill?
Every single one of these "But why are they voting against their own self-interests?" articles misses this crucial point.
Because they're lying. They believe the government should exist. For everyone who is not them/doesn't hold their beliefs. The fall of Roe v Wade is the most prominent and proximate example, but there are others.
I'm not sure what point you're arguing here. Are you simply saying that GOP voters must be rubes with no understanding of what they're supporting or....?
If you’re saying the GOP is lying, I generally agree. If you mean all people who vote Republican are lying about wanting less government and are actually authoritarian fascists, you’re vastly oversimplifying it.
I don’t think anyone has ever said ALL conservatives are fascists but to say you can’t see the fascist tendencies in the American Republican Party (especially in the past few years) is being academically dishonest at best. “Small government” means a lot of things to a lot of people. Many conservatives I know conflate “big government” with that time they had to wait 30min to get their photo taken at the DMV. Unless it happened to them personally or one of their own, they have difficulty empathizing with folks even if their economic interest align. For example, obviously I don’t want to lump all Latino people together but generally speaking as a group they tend to be very Catholic and pretty conservative. You would think the GOP would be all over that but I’m assuming leaders made a calculation and figure it wasn’t worth risking the 1/4-1/3 of GOP who can’t let go of their racism and xenophobia.