I answered that too. The police almost certainly won't remove her, so he'll have to take her to court. And he MUST give her proper written notice first, which in your state is 15 days.
Nobody even suggested that anyone is a moron. The police are not judges or courts. The police cannot evaluate evidence, they collect evidence. The place where evidence is evaluated (was she a tenant, or not, for example) is in court. Police get called to these disputes all the time. People shove papers in their faces "look I live here" and they have no idea if this is all the evidence, or even accurate evidence. No one is testifying under penalty of perjury. And removing someone from a property that they have a right to be in, is unconstitutional. The police don't want to risk that. They will almost always say "this is a civil matter." And they'd be right. They don't enforce contracts.
This is sort of like asking, "how long do you have to turn on the over before it's hot?" If it burns you, it's hot. If the police won't remove her (and they probably won't) then you have to go to court to evict her, so she's effectively a tenant. The thing is--you can't do it. He has to do it. If you're on the same lease, your landlord can't do it either, they can only evict all of you together.
I'd caution your friend that if they need to get the landlord involved to get her evicted, they will almost certainly be evicted themselves. Most leases have a clause that states the limitations on guest stays which matches the timelines set by the state laws. This protects the landlord & tenants on the lease from accidentally turning a guest into another tenant. If this was in your friend's lease (or a clause that bars them from subletting), they'd have broken it, which means they can be justly evicted. And even if your friend didn't violate their lease agreement, their landlord doesn't have any lease agreement with the guest, so they'd have to evict all tenants on the written lease in order to get the subtenant out.
If your friend is on a lease and their guest isn't, and if the guest has been paying their rent to the friend directly, the guest would be considered a sub-tenant (not a co-tenant), meaning your friend would be considered their landlord. They can't evict their sub-tenant without cause, however, tenancy can be terminated at the end of the rental agreement period (not the same as eviction). In the absence of a fixed-term agreement, the verbal rental agreement duration is taken . Your friend has to give sufficient notice of non-renewal of the sub-tenancy agreement per this timeline. Be careful to follow the proper format for this, or you risk giving notice that is not legally valid (and can therefore be ignored by the sub-tenant). They would only have to pursue an eviction of their sub-tenant if they don't leave at the end of that final agreement period. It will be tricky to do all of this without the guest becoming aware of their status as a legal sub-tenant, but if follow proper procedure isn't followed your friend puts themselves at risk of being sued.
Basically it depends on whether a court is more likely to define this as "residing" or visiting. If their things are all there and they are not a "resident" anywhere else (ex. they don't have their own lease elsewhere), they _could_ be considered a resident at your friend's address. The fact that they are paying "rent" can further be used as evidence of them being a resident (since guests generally don't pay rent).
I tried looking it up and most of the answers were rather vague but implied it was not difficult for a guest to become a tenant if they have no where else to go. I did find a clear answer on one site, but did not find others repeating it, so hopefully someone else can confirm: