There's no definitive answer to this question - there's not a whole lot of evidence, hence the change in scholarly opinion. You're right in assuming that the local Brittonic population was larger than that of the Anglo-Saxons - there were, perhaps, 1 million Britons in Britain during the 5th century and far, far fewer Anglo-Saxons.
It therefore seems to be the case that the Britons within the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the east, which were militarily and politically dominant, adopted an Anglo-Saxon identity, along with their language and religion. Burial practices during the migration period change, with "continental" practices introduced. It's impossible to know the ethnicity of those buried and it's highly likely that those who may have considered themselves Brittonic in the past also chose to be buried in Anglo-Saxon ways. The dynasty of Wessex seems to have had some sort of Celtic origin, too - some of the names of the early kings of Wessex, such as Cerdic, Ceawlin and Cynegils look like they have Brittonic origins. That subjects would adopt the culture of their superiors is not uncommon - in Hungary, the local Slavs would become Magyarised; across the Elbe, Slavs would become German; and in Pictland, the local Picts would adopt the Gaelic culture of the dominant Gaels of Dal Riada. One can see this process happening in Devon, which despite being part of Dumnonia and conquered quite a bit later by Wessex, would adopt English place-names and English culture. This elite emulation model would explain the disappearance of Brittonic languages.
More broadly, whatever the language of the earliest "Welsh", the term Welsh would eventually be used for those we know for sure to be Brittonic speakers, seemingly without much hesitation or slight change in terminology, and by writers and chroniclers who would have known the difference between the two, or, at least, would recognise Latin.
In the final areas to become English-speaking prior to the Norman conquest (such as the Welsh marches and Cumbria), it is likely that little more than elite dominance would have been necessary to affect a language shift. But the speed of the transition in other parts of the country, as well as the sudden changes in western Brittonic, certainly suggests that a large-scale change in the makeup of the population occurred. In absence of such migration, language shift is a long, drawn-out, uneven process that takes centuries. For example, it took six hundred years for Latin to eradicate Gaulish even with all the might of the Roman Empire. More modest elite groups such as the Normans, the Franks, and the Visigoths never managed it at all. That a small band of Anglo-Saxons could have for some reason accomplished it in all of England in less than the time it had taken the Romans to convert only southeastern Britain to Latin certainly stretches the boundaries of believability.
At the time Bryan Ward-Perkins wrote the essay referred to in the other answer, the popular interpretation of the Anglo-Saxon migration (amongst archaeologists at least) was indeed that it was little more than a warrior elite that acculturated the natives. Archaeologists have since turned in a more "migrationist" direction again, particularly now that DNA evidence from ancient graves has actually shown that whole communities moved, rather than just men, and that in many cases the migrants seemed to have been less wealthy than the natives. After all, one of the major reasons for their migration seems to have been that their marshy homelands were being regularly flooded.