additionally, what about fanfiction? someone could write a long winded, vivid love letter about a celebrity, and that can paint a picture in your head as well as a deepfake. should that be illegal?
But making an illegal item is still illegal. For example if you obtained a copyright-free image of a child and photoshopped it to make it sexual, you would be making child pornography and be able to be arrested for breaking that law.
Yes you could be exempt from copyright laws if you were using the original image to make a critique, conduct research, etc.
Also posting things online does not waive copyright. You can’t steal YouTube videos, stock images, etc and resell them.
You can't copyright your image or voice because neither was the result of a creative process, as per the various copyright acts. So unless you were genetically engineered, tough luck. (And even then the rights would belong to your creator, not to you.).
Here's my take on this. I think adult-themed Deepfakes at least, should be regulated to the extent where both actors have the option to agree to have deepfakes made of themselves, as part of a "deepfakes" actors guild so-to-speak or similar organisation for artists (a bit like PRS). Based on the understanding, they receive revenue from those making the deepfakes and or the sites/online communities which host them. Making it highly illegal to deepfake non guild member actors. That is within adult connotations. Anywhere else you can argue freedom of expression, or artistic licence such as the puppets in the TV series Spitting Image. I think in terms of adult entertainment though, the arguments are lost/ignored with regards to the adult performers needs versus massive outcry from the celebrities who get juxtaposed then merged in the process into that. There is a mentality, they \[adult performers\] already put themselves in that position, therefore are fair-game which is wrong in my opinion.
So, a little like the music industry where if you sample someone's work they get some royalties from that. Or like Youtube where if you use other peoples music in your video, they can claim a share of the ad revenue or all of it.
Not everyone will agree with my stance on this, but I see no issue if a person makes imagery for personal use. It's the sharing that is the issue and those who profiteer from that.
That said, in the video-game sphere, character models have become far more realistic now, with software such as Unreal Engine 5 for example. It would be quite easy to create CGI likenesses of actors without their consent, and put them in adult scenes (and then share to the wider community). Hence the need to empower those actors so they at least get some form of agreement/ payment from that. I work with adult VR gaming, and can foresee the challenges ahead especially in light of this ruling. I think a sensible mature approach or discussion, is necessary as the technology and easy access of it improves.
See how popular and monetizable something like OnlyFans has become. We are not stuck in the 70s or 80s, and live in a far more accessible digital age where it's acceptable for anyone to monetize themselves if they so choose to do so. The issue here is if someone else shares or monetizes you (or both) without your consent.
I don't think this would combat any underground scenes sharing deepfakes, but at least it would empower any actors who might see this as an additional revenue stream. Honestly, I think it might be one-sided though, where there would be an abundance of adult entertainment actors signing-up, and very few regular actors feeling comfortable doing so due to societal stigma attached to adult entertainment.