Good morning and welcome to the “Being the Change That Others Don’t Want: Asserting and Resisting Racial Hierarchies in Midcentury North America” conference panel Q&A! This panel examines strategies, language and culture of protests and counter-protests in the United States and Canada centered on the subjects of Fascism and Race. It focuses on a variety of actors engaging in protests and counter-protests, on questions of framing and re-framing protests and agendas as well as on reaction and reflection of social upheaval. By asking questions about language, effectiveness of protests and the role of so-called moderates, the panelists present a historical perspective on subjects that are evermore present and urgent in this very age.
In the 1930s and early 1940s, American educators perceived group hatreds as a significant danger when facing the growth of Nazism. They believed that the Nazis succeeded in coming to power and in conquering enemies through “divide and conquer” techniques. These methods fostered group antagonisms, which weakened the Nazis’ enemies. In response, educators seized upon intercultural and unity education to defeat the subversive effects of what they saw as imported “Nazi racial ideology.” These efforts found significant purchase in educational curricula between 1933 and 1945.
During the school desegregation crises of the 1950s, numerous fascist individuals used a particular phrase and idea which had gained salience in its use describing Nazi methods--"divide and conquer." Fascists consistently presented the NAACP and other Civil Rights advocates as "outside agitators" who sought to "divide" the South in order to instill federal or communist control. Though Communism was often the totalitarian other named, the method of dividing enemies through creating racial antagonisms had been attributed to totalitarianism through Nazism. I suggest, therefore, that a method of rule ascribed to Nazism was then allocated to Communism as the two ideologies were melded under the category of totalitarianism.
A question for u/kugelfang52: As I understand the chronology of your work, a lot of the groundwork for totalitarian interpretations of fascism equating it with Soviet-style communism seems to have happened in the 1940s. Most of the foundational texts dealing with totalitarianism as a concept to describe both Stalinism and Nazism I can think of date from the 1950s or later. What sort of earlier ideas and discourses were being drawn upon in the 1940s to create the narratives you discuss?