He persuaded me to be political and to look at countries like Norway . I’m sad more people don’t like him on here as I think he is one of the best speakers and motivates me to vote more than almost anyone. I’m glad he’s writing a book because once he is gone it will be hard to replace him.
I agree about Biden threatening to pack the court. However if Hilary won then she would have set the pro life movement back so much with 3 pro choice justices. Democrats didn’t come out to vote for Hilary and it was because they didn’t like her. Some didn’t like her for good reasons (she wasn’t as progressive as Bernie) but things in this country became historically worse because Hilary lost that election. We cannot let ourselves get that vulnerable again. Republicans are winning because they vote for party and not for candidates. I doubt all those religious prudes liked voting for trump but they did anyways.
It didn't seem to "scare" people this election, 2018 or 2020. The only ones "scared" are upper middle class and rich people.
Generationally, we're dealing with a far left leaning "youth", youth being used to even equate 40 year old voters. And so unlike our Boomer parents who were in their 30's during the Reagan Revolution becoming Republicans, the exact opposite is happening today with the same age groups.
Here at rpolitics, it seems the Neo Cons, and what's left of them, are Democrats, not Republicans, and in that, a generation who has at most another decade of political viability.
sounds like the democrats should probably move left, and maybe try posing any form of obstacle to fascism for once, if they want to run on "vote for us, we can save democracy".
i'm not gullible enough to pretend the democrats would even slow down fascism (which they can't) if they wanted to (which they don't).
Hey, maybe I'm out of touch, but maybe after an election where America came out against extremists, extreme rhetoric about revolution won't be appealing.
don't worry, those are still on the table too, if whoever runs for president as a progressive in the next election gets closer to winning. got to have some moderate with a career-long record of working for billionaires.