A tangent, but having seen your answers elsewhere on the importance of morale as the key determining factor in Greek battles, is it fair to say that shocking the enemy with some unexpected or awe-striking tactic - though of course not via explosions, for the persuasive reasons outlined above - would serve no purpose at all? It's hard to imagine the skittish Greek soldiers I've read about in your other answers calmly filling in the gaps in the line left by a strange and unfamiliar weapon.
In my answer above I'm mostly leaning on preserved accounts of the response to scythed chariots, which is the closest thing to a shock-and-awe weapon on Greek battlefields. Elephants, seen especially in the Hellenistic period, might be a better parallel. In both cases, more skittish troops may have broken at the first onslaught (we have some good examples of elephants having this effect), but most cases actually show the scary thing being swiftly dealt with, or the disadvantaged side quickly finding ways to handle the threat. Perhaps the problem here is that practically all of these accounts feature professional soldiers rather than untrained militia. So the problem is one of a mismatch where any historical parallels occur only in contexts where the troops would be more prepared to deal with them.
I feel like I already answered this in my original post: there were certainly people, like Aristodemos, who charged the enemy in a death-seeking frenzy. But this went against the principles of Greek warfare and the ideals of Greek culture. It also clearly isn't the same thing as the suicide bombers that /u/PrototypeChefBot asked about, since these suicidal charges did nothing to disrupt a dense formation. Bear in mind that the original question was about ancient peoples trying to use the density of infantry formations as a weapon. A single charging spearmen might kill a few men but then be quickly dispatched. His deeds would disrupt nothing.
Finally, even if explosives could somehow be made and effectively used, suicide bombing would have gone directly against the prevailing Greek warrior ethos. The Spartan Aristodemos, who was shamed and cast out from society for being the only survivor of the battle of Thermopylai, tried to redeem himself at the battle of Plataia the next year by rushing at the Persian line in a berserk frenzy. Afterwards the Spartans judged that he did not deserve honours for his act, because he had disobeyed orders and left his place in the line. While the Greeks absolutely believed in the notion of the "beautiful death" in combat against the enemy, this was not to be foolishly sought, but to be faced as the ultimate price of being a member of one's community. It was something that citizens had to endure together, serving the common cause. You were not supposed to seek death but to do your job alongside your fellow warriors. The great achievement of battle was to prove yourself better than your fears and accept the consequences of danger; deliberate suicide was a quick escape that proved nothing.