You can see, too, how postal systems gradually evolved out of this type of setup. The ruler (or in Europe, the pope was an early adopter) would pay particular inns or stablemasters to always have horses ready for official messengers, who would work out ways to balance horses with the "postmasters" at the next stages. (Probably something similar to the standard practice, although these situations are examples of when mounted travelers can go MUCH faster than people on foot). With frequent enough message traffic, it was cheaper for non-urgent/secret letters to be carried by...well, mail deliverers, who knew the route from their stable to the next stops very, very well.
—No they didn’t. They just jumped in the river and mussled their hair to make themselves look sweaty and exhausted.
The romanticized image of the lone rider galloping away on a desperate quest isn't wrong, just mostly wrong. A knight left an inn on a different horse than he arrived on, sure...but who ever said he left alone?
However, there's plenty of evidence for stolen horses being recognized at auctions or in sales, and marked as stolen. Often, these reports come from legal/financial records about the owner of the horse having to buy it back. The horses here are ones snitched by bandits (often in very large multiples), but it seems reasonable to extrapolate.
Would rented horses typically be well known and recognized by enough people in nearby towns to deter attempts at theft? Did owners mark or brand their horses in any way?
Would the horses have been branded during that time, much like steer have been in the American midwest? Would most of the horses in use have come from local siring or caught/traded from the wild?
As to the prospects of horse theft, especially if the guide is on foot...hiring a horse was NOT. CHEAP. Yes, it would be more, shall we say, financially expedient to steal a horse than to buy one. But in general, you'd have far better and less conspicuous ways of stealing horses than to ride away with one that was pretty well known, especially if you were also somewhat well known. (Of course, lords could also often get away with almost anything they wanted, but that's beyond the scope of the present question.).
"enhorsed" Ha. But thank you for the explanation. I've been reading 19th Century Russian lit. and managed to glean a lot of this, but I wondered how when horses were made ready at the next post they came back.