Thank you so much for this very interesting response! I am constantly in awe of how quickly people are able to respond with such eloquence and detail on this subreddit.
As a follow up, because of the nature of the original question this answer focussed on moral panics featured in western media. Are there examples of similar moral panics from other cultural contexts that have spiked and then faded or does this level of fixation seem to be a uniquely western thing? Are there any scholarly cross cultural comparisons of moral panics?
And that brings us to the problem: to this point, moral panics have been the focus primarily of scholars outside the field of history. Looking at the methodologies and explanations that have been posited do not actually address the root cause of a decline.
are unclear. One proposed explanation involved the discrediting of so-called “repressed memories” of Satanic ritual abuse in trials of the late.
But even Cohen points out that any framework is unsatisfactory because it is sociological and "a-historical," that is, it cannot explain why moral panics (or a phase of endemic moral panic) develop around a particular thing at a particular time and then fade away at a particular time.
A second theory of moral panic, derived in large part from the works of Stuart Hall and Kenneth Thompson, suggests that "moral panic" is more or less an endemic state of society--however, its focus shifts. This theory also points to the fundamentally conservative and even regressive nature of moral panic(s): they focus on a situation perceived as out of control, deviant, needing restoration to a previous state.
Reichert and Richardson's (R&R 2012) article "Decline of a Moral Panic: A Social Psychological and Socio-Legal Examination of the Current.
Additionally, there's a fairly recent edited volume on Moral Panics, the Media, and the Law in Early Modern England that's pretty explicit about being historians addressing moral panics. Dangerous Games is a better read, but this might interest some of you as well--especially from the perspective of mass media and, relevant to all of us reading this, I think, media change.