Thanks for you answer! I researched this in undergrad and I remember reading that the maternity dances of the Ouled Nail were origins of any native belly dance. I also remember reading about how the play Salome’s (Strauss) Dance of the Seven Veils (specifically raunchier renditions) helped propagate the belly dance in France as erotic. Does this information still hold true? I can see how it definitely coincides with what you are saying. I’m just wondering if these two things are closer to the original roots of how the belly dance became a Western spectacle.
In contrast, so far as I've seen/studied, Belly Dance -- Raqs Sharqi, in Arabic -- is, as /u/floofyflooferi, /u/ohsideSHOWbob, and esp. /u/SiminaDar all note, is structured from dance styles that are native (word used with caution!) to the MENAT region. Nowadays, the "dancing for fun" form feels a lot like the professional form -- the latter differentiated by an expanded vocabulary of movements, who does it, what they wear, and the act of performing it on a stage, normally solo.
(Caveat: I'm basing this on memory, as I don't have my notes from reading these handy! This likely would have come from his book .
We know there's multiple dance traditions in Central Asia. The earliest I've ever found was a ref. to various dance styles in the works of Metin And that he dated back to the era of the European Middle Ages. This means that by the time the Ottoman Empire comes into being, there's a vast array of dance forms -- including one called by the Arabic work "raqs" -- extant.
So that being said, let’s talk about the history of dance in the Middle East and North Africa, the parts of the Muslim world most strongly associated with “belly dancing,” “dance of the veil,” etc. It is an immensely diverse region with many dialects spoken, religious and racial diversity, class stratification, etc. – so it therefore also has a diverse history of art and culture! Belly dancing as we usually picture it is somewhat of an amalgamation of different elements of Arab dance, including for instance hand drumming techniques, or the wearing of gold coins and other forms of ornamentation by women for special occasions (usually only weddings). There are many other forms of Arab dance that are also performed either by men or by men and women. Dabkeh is a traditional form of Arab dance common across the Levant but most strongly associated as a Palestinian dance. It is (perhaps mythically) associated with pre-Islamic cultivation or agricultural rituals, involves a lot of feet stomping with everyone in a line or semi-circle linked arm to shoulder, and nowadays frequently performed by men at weddings or by men and women together in more urban spaces or in Palestinian-American settings. Belly dancing does not really resemble any particular one of these dances.
My focus was on mid 20th c. belly dance. I'll talk primarily about Egypt. In belly dance's arguably contemporary heartland, Egypt, raqs sharqi can be found easily all over the place today, and it was this way for sure since the golden age of cinema there. Living rooms, nightclubs, and top hotels --- It is definitely not always seduction.