Going to the 'Banner Armies', obviously this game mechanic strays far from the actual essence of Banner forces, not least because most Han troops were not part of the Banner system. However, there are a few nice little references, and a couple of odd choices. For example, the inclusion of Mongol Keshiks in the 'Ming Army', when the Ming overthrew the Mongols and were infamously bad at ruling the steppe, is a bit odd. However, a lot of the army and shipment names do reference actual Qing military formations. The 'Black Flag Army' of Arquebusiers and Flamethrowers that can be trained from the Castle references the Black Flag Army that the Qing supported in northern Vietnam in the early 1880s, which conducted a guerrilla campaign against the French. Certain Home City cards also make such references – the 'Mandarin Duck Squad' card, shipping Chu-Ko-Nu and Flamethrowers, references the 'Mandarin Duck' formation advocated by Ming general Qi Jiguang; the 'Beiyang Army' card for Steppe Riders and Keshiks is far off the mark in depicting the modernised infantry army formed in the 1880s, but still at least name-drops it; the 'Ever-Victorious Army' of Iron Flail cavalry and Flying Crow artillery is again a little off the mark in depicting its eponymous modernised infantry formation from the 1860s, but again at least the reference is made; the 'New Army' card converting Chu-Ko-Nu to Arquebusiers and pikemen to swordsmen is perhaps a bit of a poor way to represent military reforms post-1900. Still, at least in name they acknowledge the variety of late Qing military reforms.
And in which the Qing are led by Li Hongzhang! Sadly I have not played AoE III since I lost my physical disc a few years ago – I was going off memory and the wiki.
Then there's language. The Chinese faction's units all speak Mandarin, mostly Standard Mandarin, but there are certain exceptions. The cavalry units speak with Manchu or Mongol inflections, and the Manchu horse archer mercenary (technically available to all factions) speaks full-on Manchu. The one issue I want to bring up, though, is that there are certain units with particular geographical origin that nevertheless speak Standard Mandarin. In particular, these are the two aforementioned Koxinga-inspired units, the Iron Troop and the Rattan Shield, who should speak a Min Chinese variety like Hokkien rather than Mandarin. But that's a bit of a nitpick.
It's a little paranoid. Chinese have no problems with histoircal Tibetians, they become a problem when they're portrayed as a relatively modern (republican period) independent entity.