Perry, Linda et al. “Starch Fossils and the Domestication and Dispersal of Chili Peppers (Capsicum spp. L.) in the Americas.” Science 315.986 (2007).
As for their limited use in certain cultures, it’s important to remember that chili peppers did not exist to a majority of the world’s population before Diego Alvarez Chanca brought Caribbean peppers back to Spain and Portugal for medicinal use in 1493. Portuguese traders took peppers to places where they could be cultivated including Hungary (where dried, ground peppers were made into paprika) and India (where vindaloo became a popular fusion of Portuguese spices and Goan cooking techniques).
For example, before chili peppers were introduced into India, many of its cuisines were already using loads of pepper (black pepper and "long" pepper) and heaps of biting ginger and the like. For them, it would be as if chili peppers were born for their cuisine, and represented the "Platonic ideal" of spiciness that they had been approximating with other spices. Even very traditional Ayurvedic recipes (basically India's ancient medicinal / nutritional practices) began substituting in chili peppers for black pepper, etc. There's a reason why Columbus mistook chilis for black pepper, after all!
First, let me set the stage. Chili peppers (the only natural source of capsaicin) are native to the Americas, and did not exist in the Old World before the Spanish/Portuguese started bringing them over in the last 500 years.
Further evidence of this is in the fact that one of the sites of chili domestication, where chilies are still heavily used in the local cuisine, is the Andes, which are definitely not a hot climate. Indeed, it is so cold and dry that freeze-drying is a traditional method of food preservation. But it's a place where chilis grow, and so it's a place where they're used.
So why did chili peppers blow up so quickly in so many places, and get ignored in others? More broadly, why do groups of people have similar taste preferences at all? There are a lot of possibilities here, and this is an amazingly complex issue, but let me highlight a few of the most interesting and relevant ideas, and ignore the boring ones like availability, which are less likely to matter here. In particular, let me expand your question a little bit to one that is more commonly debated, and then we'll come back to chilis.
So in a sense, I would argue that the reason why some cultures adopted chili peppers into their cuisine and others didn't primarily comes down to whether the chili pepper fit into the pre-existing cuisine. But why different cultures had cuisines that worked better with chili peppers seems to be due to evolutionary pressures based on spice use.
Chili peppers likewise have antimicrobial properties, but such evolutionary gastronomy is unlikely to have directly led to their rapid adoption—the timescales are just too short. The reason that some cuisines seem to have adopted the chili pepper so quickly seems to be that they were already using lots of piquant spices to begin with.
It's not just chili heat, as you mentioned in your own post, similar strong sensations can be produced by ginger, garlic, wasabi, horseradish, etc.
It's a little crazy to realize that all of the cultural cuisines that are so deeply ingrained with chili peppers and spiciness—Indian, Sichuan, the paprika of Turkish/Hungarian, Korean, etc.—only got that way in the last couple hundred years, other than Mexican food. Imagine going from never having seen a plant to making it a defining characteristic of your entire culinary repertoire in so short a time.