You certainly could. How well you understood that time-travelling middle republican, however, would depend on your geographic origin and education.
(It is the cabbage which surpasses all other vegetables. It may be eaten either cooked or raw; if you eat it raw, dip it into vinegar. It promotes digestion marvelously and is an excellent laxative, and the urine is wholesome for everything.).
Well said indeed. But if you look at my original answer, you'll note that I never claim that "vulgar" and "classical" Latin were always fundamentally different; I say only that they were never identical. In some places and times (like, say, among the Roman elite in Catullus' time) they were very similar, and different only in the sense that the literary register had more exacting rules. But in most other places and times, as your friend notes, there would have been real differences, at least at the sub-elite level. So while my claim that nobody spoke "Classical" Latin may have been too drastically phrased, it was not, I think, incorrect - on the terms, that is, of an outmoded diglossia model of Latin.
Unfortunately this attitude, that Latin was a magically complex language unlike modern 'simple' languages is a view I've even seen espoused by some classicists! And all this because the languages of Western Europe happen to have traded some morphological complexity for syntactic complexity in the past two thousand years. And once again, I know that you get all of this, but I feel like the extent of this confusion is enough that a shift in how we talk about Latin is in order.
We need to take into account shifts in grammar and pronunciation in Vulgar Latin, and the replacement of words and the adoption of words from other languages.
From Old Latin to Republican Latin, you see some morphological changes and sound shifts, and some minor grammatical changes... but from the late Republic onwards, Latin fundamentally changes dramatically in grammar. The various dialects of Latin were still very homogeneous and wouldn't really start splitting apart from being a common Vulgar Latin/'Romance' into the various early Romance languages for a few hundred years, but they were still quite distinct from the Vulgar Latin of the late Republic.
So for this reason I really take issue with the framework that Latin was this artificial creation of the first century BCE which then stayed the same while 'vulgar latin' evolved until it eventually broke into the romance languages. Rather, high register spoken latin was standardized in the 1st century BCE, and that initial standardization set the orthography, and informed the lexicon and syntax (but did not define them) for the following 1000 years of Latin, both written and spoken, particularly in the high register, until the period of the oaths of strasbourg and onward when people began to think of 'Latin' as something separate from what they were speaking, and at that point we can say that we had truly reached a point of diglossia, what with people trying harder and harder to mimic the classical standard while re designating their native speech with new names like 'Romance'.
For instance, the fact that 'vulgar latin' gets used both to refer to colloquial speech of the 1st century BCE, which for all intents and purposes was 'spoken classical latin', and also to the colloquial speech of the 7th century, lends itself to the notion that how people spoke in the 7th century was actually how your average roman had spoken since the republic. Some people take this nonsense so far that they insist that the haha. I have seen other people insist that your average uneducated roman would not have understood the recitation of classical poetry or speeches and the like, and a lot of people seem to really latch onto the notion that Latin was 'too complex' to have been spoken as a native language by anyone.
It's almost certainly the case that whoever read the 'latin' text would have been speaking it aloud as the 'gallo-romance' text, which makes this phenomenon far more akin to use reading our pre great vowel shift orthography with modern, post great-vowel shift pronunciation. I'm not writing in classical english but speaking in vulgar English, I'm just writing English. In the same vein, the author of this text wasn't writing in classical latin and speaking in gallo-romance, they were just writing in Latin.
Spoken Latin had probably deviated much further from "Classical" norms by the time of Justinian. It is hard to say, however, how far. The Latin of Rome had always different from the Latin of other parts of Italy, and even more from the Latin of Spain or Gaul. With the disappearance of the western imperial superstructure, and the slower but equally epochal collapse of secular education, these differences became more pronounced. Some changes seem to have taken place everywhere (most famously, prepositions were gradually replacing noun cases). But the nature of one's Latin would always have been a product of origin and education - as would one's intelligibility to a Roman from the age of Cato.
I think it's a reasonable assumption that an educated sixth-century Italian would be able to understand at least most of Cato's speech. There certainly had been vowel shifts, etc. since the second century BCE, but nothing so dramatic as the changes between the proto-literate archaic Rome of the Carmen Saliare and the Rome of Cato's day.
Classical Latin is probably most similar to the speech of educated Romans from the city of Rome between the first century BCE and the second century CE.
We tend to think of "Classical" Latin - the Latin epitomized by the speeches of Cicero and the poetry of the Augustans - as standard Latin. In reality, nobody ever spoke Classical Latin. Classical Latin was an artificial, literary dialect, founded on the speech of educated Romans in the capital, but never identical to it. All spoken Latin was "Vulgar" Latin, informed by its literary cousin to a greater or lesser extent, depending on one's education.
This is, of course, literary Latin, but in a very straightforward style probably similar to contemporary conversation. For want of anything better, we might take this as our baseline for spoken Latin in the time of the Punic Wars.
Past this, I would expect Latin to change more after the Empire exists, rather than prior to that. During the Kingdom and early-to-mid-Republic, Latin was basically constrained entirely within Latium, and existed as the dialects there - Roman Urbs Latin, Prænestine, etc. It had interactions with its neighbors, some of which were Italic, others not (Etruscan and Greek come to mind). However, you see a massive influx into the language when Rome expands, particularly outside of Italy, and you see the development of the Roman colonial dialects. Classical Latin doesn't change much since it's basically an elite written form, but Vulgar Latin does.
How different was classical Latin from vulgar Latin? Did they differ in grammar or more vocabulary? Or is it more stylistic, like a modern novel written in especially flowery prose?