Except it isn’t month-to-month and you enter into a contract for a minimun term (typically 12 months minimum). So your first payment + deposit only make up a fraction of the term. Therefore, a credit check is made to see if you can in fact payout the reminder of the term. But, this doesn’t mean that nefarious reasons are sometimes used to deny someone rent, but the credit chrck offers what courts consider a race-neutral way to deny someone rent.
The credit check thing is good for landlords who want to avoid renting the apartment to people who are not ever going to pay past the 2 months and trash it on the way out, but if you publicly get elected to office, they are guaranteed a set salary. This shouldn't be an issue for this dude AT ALL.
Trump? Seriously? Dudes a multimillionaire who doesn't need to rent shit. Yeah he stiffs contractors but he at least understands he has to purchase property to have a place to live.
It is not just getting housing people can afford, but not allowing people who stay in that housing without paying. There is a reason most organizations run from Section 8, vouchers, or lost cost housing unless they are specifically designed for it.
There is low credit score due to simply not having credit for a long period and or being driven by medical debt (that is a big one for people).
Credit scores somewhat screw the poor because they don't own homes and have regular mortgage payments that are paid on time every month and reported such. Higher credit scores lower your interest rates for other loans (car payments etc). However you can get around this by specifically working on your credit - take out credit cards that are automatically paid off and have recurring bills. (The best way to do this is utility bills. Guarantees they are paid each month and pay the credit card each month - double whammy for credit score).
Credit checks are indicator of how people pay their bills on time, not just how much debt they have.
Credit checks presumably show how on time people are when paying debt owed. It’s an indication of what to expect from a tenant. Are you suggesting that skin color is indicative of how good someone’s credit score is?