I always wished they could reset the comment counter, I see a post with 17 comments and I get excited the question was answered with some good follow up discussions just to have my hopes dashed when nothing is there.
Removed comments which don't have any replies to them don't show up as [Comment Removed] when you view the post so that will explain the majority of removed comments. If you're asking why moderators don't always reply to comments we remove, it's because the vast majority of removed comments are simple one line answers, jokes, speculation or other worthless comments which don't merit a removal reason.
We try to leave replies to all high effort attempts that we remove, but we get hundreds of comments a day to sort through, so it would be impractical to notify everyone that we'd removed their comment.
Would be more "clear" to just delete them all without replying, rather than waste your mods time coming up with a non-templated explanation. (And let's be honest, the user who was replied to by a mod won't reply back or likely even read/appreciate the mod response.).
Sometimes though, it DOES Seem like this is the case (a thread with 100 comments and 50 of them being mod removal warnings).
Not saying that's an issue, but if some comments are "shadow-removed" and some are "mod-reply-removed", it leads to threads like this.
There are, however, shades to why a reply has been removed, based on which rule they run afoul of, or just how bad it is. If you'll run down any mod's profile, you'll see the various macros we use - some just the generic removal one, some for sharing personal anecdotes, some for Wikipedia, some for just sharing quotes or links. Sometimes we remove replies that are almost, but not quite there - in those cases, we point out where the user needs to improve and reinstate the answer if and when the requested changes are edited in.
Further, there are some cases where new users come in all eager, and then post a string of replies across multiple threads that must be removed; in this case, the mod removal also works to shake them out of that and inform them that This Ain't How We Do It Here. Same for serial rule-breakers. The mod warning is the official warning, and given that most users don't go in and read the rules of a community before contributing (though they really should - read the room, people, it's an important skill), it helps to remind people.
Same deal, yes. Not every comment receives a removal notice, mainly because if we did that, we'd just be contributing to comment count bloat. (Imagine a thread of ostensibly 100 comments, but 50 of them are mod removal warnings, heh.).