About 100 hours of the Let It Be sessions are available publicly, and in fact, from a listening to them, John was actually on board with playing a live gig for the album. It was George and Ringo who were the holdouts. Paul told the director on the second day of shooting that Ringo had informed them beforehand that he had made it a stipulation that he would not play any gig outside of England and throughout the discussions, he makes his disinterest clear he wasn't much interested in that.
Aside from "Love Me Do" in 1962 when Ringo was replaced (on one version) and Eric Clapton guest-starring on "While My Guitar Gently Weeps", the Beatles never used session musicians for parts they couldn't play themselves. They did use them for things like violins and trumpets, and sometimes guest keyboard players (George Martin, Nicky Hopkins, Billy Preston), but never for guitars or anything like that. Occasionally, Paul would play a part himself that he wanted done his way that George or John may have normally played, but they never used outside session players.
George's motivations were slightly more straightforward - he felt he was being passed over in the group, with his writing overlooked and his parts often played by Paul (and sometimes John). George had spent time in Woodstock with The Band and envied their relationship, with each member contributing vocals and writing credits to songs, and his return to London just made the contrast even starker. This is fairly evident when we see that he only gets one or two songs per album, but was able to fill the triple-LP All Things Must Pass with songs immediately after the group finished in 1970. He was angry with domineering Paul and apathetic John, and felt increasingly bitter towards them both. Whilst he didn't officially leave the group, he stormed out on many sessions and had to be continually coaxed back.
Paul wanted to be in charge, John didn't care, George felt unappreciated and Ringo just wanted everyone to stop fighting.
By this point Ringo realised he didn't need to quit the band, so he told George instead that he was going on a holiday. The Beatles were recording 'Back In The USSR' off the White Album during this time, and McCartney plays drums on that instead of Ringo. While Ringo took a break, he spent time on a yacht on the Mediterranean, and wrote the bare bones of 'Octopus's Garden'.