But now that the federal government is backing away from distributing the vaccines, their makers are moving to the commercial market—with price adjustments. Financial analysts had previously anticipated Pfizer would set the commercial price for its vaccine at just $50 per dose but were taken aback in October when Pfizer announced plans of a price between $110 and $130. Analysts then anticipated that Pfizer's price would push Moderna and other vaccine makers to follow suit, which appears to be happening now.".
"Until now, the mRNA-based COVID-19 vaccines from Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech have been purchased by the government and offered to Americans for free. In the latest federal contract from July, Moderna's updated booster shot cost the government $26 per dose, up from $15–$16 per dose in earlier supply contracts, the Journal notes. Similarly, the government paid a little over $30 per dose for Pfizer-BioNTech's vaccine this past summer, up from $19.50 per dose in contracts from 2020.
They used taxpayer money to finance the development of this vaccine and now they want to overcharge for it?
Maybe it's the American way of thinking that if it's paid by the government nobody wants to get it, but if it's an expensive premium treatment everybody wants it... 🤔.
No I mean more in general, for example here most kids get a vaccin for smallpox when they are young. That is also not a pandemic, but it is to prevent one. Just wondering if those are available for free in the USA.
I don't understand why the government stopped buying. (I'm from Europe btw.) I can imagine you want private healthcare, as that is mostly about your own health. However vaccins are at least as much about not infecting others as it is about not getting sick. Societal benefits of covid vaccins are huge, but who's going to pay 100 dollar to get a vaccin?
Increasing the price from $15-16 to $110-130 per vaccine is not a normal mark up. Raising the price by 800% is pure greed and has nothing to do with supply and demand.