Well Japan did have an interest in the region and definitely in Manchuria. But there are a couple of things that made Japan not go to war with the USSR.
As you know, the Germans and Soviets soon went to war. The Japanese could have joined in but again, not much to help them and they would have far more to lose. So instead they focused on the US and war with the western allies. Soon the US and japan were at war. Both the Soviets and Japanese had their own issues and couldn’t spare resources to fight one another. The Japanese were so against war with the Soviets actually, that they refused to sink US supply ships heading to give the Soviets aid, as to avoid a war with the Soviets.
The Soviets showed a decisive material superiority to the Japanese Army in Manchuria during this conflict which made Japan wary of facing the Soviets in a ground war. It also resulted in a loss of prestige for the Japanese Army. The Japanese Army had made a practice of provoking incidents in Manchuria and China for years w/out approval of the central government. The central government couldn't do a lot about this as long as the Japanese Army was "winning" these engagements. But at Khalkin Gol the Japanese were beaten, which gave the Japanese government leverage to somewhat reign in the Japanese army in Manchuria, and resulted a purge of many of the NED faction, and the rise of the SED faction.
There were two factions in Japan leading up to Pearl Harbor, one that favored the Northern Expansion Doctrine, and another that favored the Southern Expansion Doctrine. The NED saw Manchuria and Siberia as Japan's primary sphere of influence, with the USSR as the primary threat, and was primarily favored by the Japanese Army. The SED saw Southeast Asia and the Pacific as Japan's primary opportunity for expansion, with the US and the colonial powers as the primary threat, and was favored more by the Japanese Navy.
With the pacific fleet crippled, Japan in control of South East Asia and the Pacific, the thought was that the US would be 'rational' and see no point in continuing to fight. If it did, Japan thought it could force a decisive surface battle like that of Tsushima and defeat a weakened Pacific fleet and force America to the table.