And that assumes that this guy was actually legally your father. DNA doesn't matter to courts, just whose name is on a birth certificate. Without knowing what happened, what the piece of paper he signed said, what the piece of paper you have says, and other things, nobody can really tell you anything about what happened.
No, you can't get back child support. The obligation ended once you turned 18 and she would have needed to file for child support before you turned 18. Also, it's very rare these days for courts to award large amounts of back support; usually they only give you back to the date you filed now, not 18+ years worth. Your mother would have needed t have a LEGAL child support order with specific numbers too, not just a piece of paper that maybe says he's supposed to pay support in general, and again, it's likely that it's considered a moot point by the courts because you're 28 and it's too late to try and get it and she's passed on in addition.
Unpaid child support is an interesting question that you can consult with a family law attorney about, but don't be surprised if they tell you that it's a moot legal point because you are an adult, and a moot practical point because your biological father will not pay.
It is very unlikely the he did a "voluntary termination of parental rights". Those are uncommon, and almost all of them are in the context of a step-parent adoption.
It’s highly unlikely that that his parental rights were terminated unless you were adopted by a step-parent. The State strongly prefers that a child has two parents available to provide financial support.
Talk to a probate attorney. If he was ever ordered to pay child support and signed away his custody rights, he may still owe that money to your mother’s estate. If his parental rights (different from custody rights) were terminated before he was ordered to pay child support, he wouldn’t owe any child support.
If he was ordered to pay child support and he did not he owes the arrearage plus interest to your mother's estate. You can contact the court to get information on how to pursue this claim.