This comment is going to be a bit abstract, but I think it's probably fine because the top-level commenter has already given a specific response. I'm a historian of a different time and place, but the broader issue you've touched on is the same for me. I want to draw it out and see how others respond. I'm not attacking your comment so much as using it as a springboard to address the issue in general.
This case seems analogous to me. Without evidence for racism, and with no real hope for evidence against it, we might not be able to address this question at all. Addressing the question in whatever way we can is our job as historians, so we might need to speculate, and that speculation might need to do some heavy lifting. The italics are just an added bonus at that point. The speculation is part of the process of studying history.
It has been left up to the reader to determine for himself what part of your history this statement refers to. I think that is fine for other forums. Stylistically, in Reddit I think more bluntness is really on order.
The answer you have mentions the tangents expected such as Indigenous cultural destruction, the KKK muscling up in some states, and parents homeschooling to avoid desegregation but doesn't highlight the crux of your story nor have explicit language highlighting the anti-racist threads of homeschooling.
You could have said when homeschooling was and was not utilized by racist people, but instead wrote a history which touched on both but (frustratingly to me) somehow didn't spend any breath directly referencing your opening line.
"" in the Journal of Black Studies by Tal Levy uses a variety of statistics to work through different hypothesis related to homeschooling and racism.
I wouldn't go so far as to claim the latest rise of homeschooling was entirely about avoiding desegregation. To be sure, there were white parents who elected to homeschool their child due to desegregation but again, there were parents who homeschooled for philosophical reasons, for self-protection and preservation, and for religious reasons.
In many places with high rates of homeschooling for religions reasons, desegregation and integration is a non or minimal issue due to small populations of Black students. In other words, there are homeschoolers who homeschool for reasons that are entirely about religion. They, though, do not represent all parents who homeschool.