In the face of its onrush, all the wisdom and ingenuity of man were unavailing. Large quantities of refuse were cleared out of the city by officials appointed for that purpose, all sick persons were refused entry, and numerous instructions were issued for safeguarding the peoples health, but all to no avail. Nor were the countless petitions humbly directed to God by the pious, whether by means of formal processions or in any other guise, any less ineffectual. For in the early spring of that year, the plague began, in a terrifying and extraordinary manner, to make its disastrous effects apparent.
As the well-poisoning rumor spread in Central Europe in late 1348 and in early 1349, the citizens of these cities also witnessed the surge of another possible reaction to the plague, the procession of . This lay religious movement was primarily a public spectacle of personal penitence by showing self-flagellation act on the naked skin, but it is worth noting that the surge of their procession also preceded the actual arrival of the plague in most cities. Furthermore, participants of the procession sometimes engaged themselves with the massacre of the Jews, i.e. the pogrom (Kelly 2006: 267). These occurred a few (ca. 2 or 3) months before the plague finally came to the southernmost part of HRE from the Adriatic coast earliest in May, 1349.
On the other hand, Cologne in Rhineland had a first recorded outbreak of the plague in June, 1349, and the pogrom occurred in August. Among the cities I mentioned in this post, only Cologne in fact followed the generally assumed chronological order, namely the plague first and then the pogrom as a possible reaction to the apocalyptic events.
It was mainly multiple correspondences between mayors, city officials, and city councils among the different cities in HRE that were responsible for the diffusion of the rumors of this well-poisoning rumor preceding the actual arrival of the plague in their city (Aberth ed. 2017, Doc. 25:115-29). Thus, these local authorities also involved with the pogrom in their own city in many cases. In other words, the persecution of the Jews was not so entirely mob's doing, or, so to speak, 'grassroots movement' in individual cities.