First let's explain some context- for centuries, Jews had been tarred by a stereotype of being money-grubbing and unscrupulous, which was still strongly in existence during the Civil War- and was at this point exacerbated among some in the Union with the realization that the Secretary of the Treasury of the Confederacy was a Jew with the very Jewish name of Judah P Benjamin (no Jew had ever reached such a high office in the United States). At this point, General Grant was in charge of the Department of the Tennessee (which included part of the state of Tennessee but actually included land from northern Mississippi to Illinois, from the Mississippi River to the Tennessee River. This area was being plagued by various kinds of opportunists, swindlers, smugglers and cotton speculators who were giving Grant a great deal of grief. The majority of these were not Jewish; however, given the large presence of Jews in trade in general and their easy visibility as immigrants, as well as the kinds of antisemitic sentiments not unpopular in that day, in the minds of many- including Grant- these activities were specifically associated with Jews.
Jews long remained in this position of only available religious minority, and over time they were often made very visible as such: discriminatory measures introduced very early on included being forced to wear certain hats and clothing, be part of humiliating rituals, pay onerous taxes, live in restricted areas of towns – ghettos – and be separated from the majority population. All this further increased the sense of “other-ness” that majority societies experienced toward the Jews. They were made into the other by such measures.
These processes also often took place within negotiations between social and political elites over state formation. One of the best examples is the expulsion of the Jewish population from Spain by the rulers of Castile and Aragon after the Reconquista in 1491. Expulsion and forcible conversions progressed toward an institutionalized suspicion towards so-called New Christians – Jews who’d recently converted– based on their "blood". This was an unprecedented element in antisemitic attitudes that some scholars place within the context of Spanish rulers and nobility becoming engaged in a rather brutal state formation process. In order to define themselves, they chose to define and get rid of a group they painted as alien, foreign and different in a negative way – as the "other". Once again Jews were the easily available minority.
This dynamic meant that Jews were the most easily recognisable and visible minority to point fingers at during a crisis. This can be best observed with the frequent accusations of "blood libel" – an anti-Semitic canard alleging that Jews murdered Christian children to use their blood in religious rituals – in situations where Christian children or adults disappeared, the communal panic immediately channeling itself as Jew-hatred with tragic results. Similarly, religious, ideological, and economic reasons were often interwoven in the expulsion of Jews to whom medieval rulers and kings owed a lot of money; in fact, one intersection of crisis-blaming and financial motive occurred during the Black Death, when local rulers were able to cynically blame Jews for the plague as an excuse for murdering and expelling them.
The reasons why Jews specifically were persecuted, expelled, and discriminated against throughout mainly European history can vary greatly depending on time and place, but there are overarching historical factors that can help us understand the historical persecution of Jews - mainly that they often were the only minority available to scapegoat.