Except that they openly value an unviable fetus or even an ectopic pregnancy over the life and well-being of a living human person, and victim blame at every possible opportunity (even for failed pregnancies that were wanted). We see it time and time again, and it's not just the politicians saying this. They run on exactly this platform, and people agree and VOTE FOR THEM.
I'm talking about the regular, every day citizens. They actively do think that way. When you oush them about the deaths of women or subsequent infertility or unreasonable hospital bills, it inevitably falls to "It's God's will" or "they should've been more responsible with their body/money/health/"insert BS topic here". I say this because I've seen it way too often across social media, where I live, and in my family/(former) friends. Politicians will specifically tout removing ALL acess to abortion and people eat it up - they may not be the actual majority in the country, but they're voting in enough numbers to be very dangerous otherwise politicians would NEVER get this far.
I don’t even like the fact that politicians can decide what entails a threat to the woman’s health considering all pregnancies carry a risk of death or permanent injury and doctors are now letting women suffer when the fetus is dying because they’re afraid to terminate because of these laws.
Several good responses before mine, but I'm going to add that the people who say they're anti abortion out of protecting human life refuse to do ANYTHING to help the mother, help the born and hungry child, help the family. Constantly the population that pushes anti abortion to 'save a child' narrative are against universal healthcare, easy access to birth control, universal prenatal care, paid parental leave, universal child care, paid school lunches, comprehensive sex education, etc. Supporting any one of those things, let alone all of them, would better help reduce the number of abortions than dicking around in state and federal courts with laws that don't even make sense to try and enforce.
Basically the GOP is trying to keep some judge from ever interrupting the state constitution in favor of abortion rights.
Kentucky voters simply rejected a ballot proposal that would have amended the state constitution to explicitly say it does not protect a right to abortion. And while this is certainly a win, it by no means establishes a right to abortion for Kentuckians.