As far as I can tell, Franklin Academy was a relatively modern school for the era. Which meant there were multiple teachers, grade levels, and likely a structure for discipline. The single-room schools around Burke, though, were multi-age and for younger children, averaging 40 or so students per term. Until the ten-month calendar was fully entrenched in the 1900s, schools typically had two terms, a winter term and a summer term. The summer term was typically when young children would start explicitly for the reasons mentioned in the book - trudging to school in the dead of winter for a small human can be rough. Likewise, the summer term would often feature more arts and crafts, music, and games, helping children ease into school routines. It would also be very unusual for a multi-age schoolhouse for younger children to have a male teacher in 1866.
First, 1866 was right in the middle of Victor Rice's tenure as Superintendent of Public Instruction for NYS. Rice was committed to the professionalization of teaching and helped push forward the creation of several "normal" (teacher preparation) colleges in the state. He was a prolific writer and frequently toured the state to visit schools and highlight practices. I wasn't able to find any mention of the violence you describe in his publicly available writings - which isn't necessarily a disqualifier. However, the nature of what you're describing is such that it would be newsworthy. Nor was I able to find mention of teacher deaths in the region in that era. In contrast, a student stabbed his principal (who survived) in Skaneateles in 1857 and it was covered in several papers. Likewise, the New York Times covered the murder of a teacher in rural Illinois in 1882.
So. I think it's safe to conclude that what she did was create an anecdote and toyed a bit with actual history in order to present Almanzo's gentleness and his father's intelligence.
This makes me wonder if it’s a story that happened Almanzo’s parents or grandparents or Laura’s parents or grandparents but it was too interesting to leave out so she incorporated it into Almanzo’s story.