In a private school, this is purely a contracts issue, not a freedom of speech issue. Odds are, your parents' contract with the school gives the school _extremely_ broad discretion to discipline you or even expel you based on conduct they don't like.
In a public school, the school has an overriding interest in ensuring that classes proceed smoothly and that students do not disrupt the educational environment. Disciplining you for how you express yourself during class is generally allowed, even if the basis for the disagreement is obscenity or an unpopular opinion. Even swearing in the halls can lead to discipline. Where the school's right to manage the educational environment stops is where a student's conduct does not intersect with it - a public school would be in the wrong if they penalize you for speaking out about boring classes away from the school, for example.
In general, it's rare for a school's code of conduct and enforcement of that code of conduct to give rise to anything actionable. The school's quasiparental role in a student's life, during the school day, justifies a lot, and most of the time the remedy if the student's parents disagree is through the school superintendent, not through the courts.
It's not a matter of whether there's supervision or not, it's the matter or whether or not it's an infringement of the first ammendment if an opinion is expressed during a moment of open speech that is not directly mediated by a teacher. Could you fight that the teacher is suppressing your freedom of speech under the guise of using a swear even when you think you're really being punished for the teacher disagreeing with your opinion? And would that hold up in court. Here's an example using current events. If a student were giving a presentation or having a conversation about the former President and stated their opinion that "he is a fucking Nazi", then got detention. If the student said they were punished for expressing their opinion but the teacher says it's for swearing. Who's side would the school take? Who's side would a court take?
What if the student was presenting in front of the class and used a swear word? It's mainly a situation of the student is able to speak "freely" like when the teacher is at their desk and allowing the students to chat.