This should not be a tax bomb and any tax burden will be less than the amount of the award. This is basically going to be treated as W2 income. They will withhold some basic amount (probably 20%) but that might be more or less than your actual tax burden on that amount. If your upper tax bracket is more than 20% then you might want to withhold extra.
In a progressive tax system, you have to look at all the tax brackets. Everyone (theoretically) pays the same marginal rates as you move up the ladder. It doesn't matter if you work at McDonald's or are a CEO.
Let's say for simplicity that you make $100k and the tax brackets are 15 percent at 0-$15k, 25 percent from $15k-$80k, and 40 percent at $80k. (It's a silly example but we're oversimplifying, and forget deductions you could take like mortgage interest.).
So it doesn't really matter if some additional income "bumps" you into the next tax bracket, because you are only paying the higher rate on that additional income, not your entire income.
The way people think it works is "oh, if I make $100k, I'm in the 40 percent tax bracket and pay 40 percent on my entire income" which isn't true. Everyone pays the same rates on the same income.
All income you earn throughout the year is subject to Federal income tax. The tax rate you pay on any source of income varies based on a huge number of factors. The most significant factor is your total income for the year. The employer issuing this award can estimate how much tax you would owe for the year, BUT will only know about the income you receive from them. If you have multiple sources of income, they may underestimate the effective tax rate you should pay on this income. You can use the W-4 form to instruct them to withhold a larger amount of taxes from your gross pay to compensate.
Only the portion of total income inside the next bracket is taxed at the higher rate. In your example, if the income cut-off between 22% and 24% was at income over $120,000. You would pay the 24% rate only on the $40k of total income over that step.