Great post. I'd add that another aspect of complexity that Russia grapples with isn't just that non-ethnic Russians live in Russia and the surrounding areas, but substantial numbers of ethnic Russians live in the former republics. So not only does a strong ethnic bend risk alienating non-Russians in Russia, it potentially can alienate ethnic Russians in the outlying areas if the other groups follow suit.
A major philosophical challenger to this version of a multinational state would be an outlook that has a good century and a half pedigree in Russian polities - Eurasianism. This school of thought sees the varies cultural and ethnic contributions to Russia as creating its own unique "civilization" that stands in opposition especially to the European West. Probably the biggest proponent of this theory in post-Soviet Russia has been Alexandr Dugin, who briefly was the go-to political philosopher of the Kremlin (in 2014, so outside the purview of this answer). Nevertheless, even in Yeltsin's time foreign policy advisers of his were using the term "Eurasianism" to describe Russia's foreign policy outlook.
One additional irony that I would add is that the idea of imperialism in Russian foreign policy is something that George Kennan discussed in his of 1947, which helped to develop the idea of Cold War containment. This is ironic because Kennan represented the elite East Coast State Department experts that Nixon loathed (and who loathed him in turn), but this would be a particular point where it seems they had agreement.
This leaves us with the third "national project", which is a multinational state. In the late 1980s, the Soviet ethnographer Valerii Tishkov argued for a version of this that combined elements of a civic nationalism, namely by recognizing the "multiple, situational and fluid" nature of identities in Russia (as opposed to accepting "exclusivist" national/ethnic identities) and fusing that with a general loyalty to political institutions and the Russian constitution.
A second option is what's known as a "civic nationalism", meaning that rather than promoting a common national identity based on national or ethnic characteristics, it promotes a common identity based on civic ideals, such as a commitment to certain democratic norms or institutions (a lot of political scientists would tell you that this is the basis of US, British and arguably French national identities). This also seems to be what Nixon is calling for. Initial moves by the Russian government under Yeltsin indicated this as a possible approach to nation-building: the 1991 citizenship law (in effect to 2000) allowed any former Soviet citizens residing in Russia to claim citizenship, with no language requirements. The 1993 constitution in turn took pains to describe Russians as a "community of citizens" regardless of ethnicity. However, a major issue with this approach, especially in the 1990s, is that there simply wasn't a widespread consensus on what the civic ideals of a new Russian state should be. Nixon is arguably even a little off the mark in assuming that Yeltsin stood for democracy, free markets, and an end to the Soviet Union. He did stand for those things at the time of the interview, of course, but Yeltsin was really more than anything a populist politician, and was willing to turn to more nationalist or even imperialist projects if he felt like it. So from 1992 on, the Russian government began to assert a sort of special relationship or sphere of influence over the "near abroad" (former Soviet republics), with a special concern for the treatment of ethnic Russians in these countries. Even though a lot of these liberal democratic ideals were, for instance, written into the 1993 constitution, that constitution was itself the result of a bitter and protracted constitutional crisis that ultimately saw Yeltsin shell his own legislature and approve the new constitution through likely fraudulent voting, so there was never really a deep level of support for these ideals, either among the population as a whole, the political opposition (who often called outright for restoration of the USSR), or even Yeltsin and his government (which among other things pursued projects to strenhen ties with East Slavs, notably creating the Union State with Belarus in 1997).