I actually take comfort in the existence of people like Marjorie Taylor, Green, because it means that our government is working. A certain percentage of our society is lunatic, and they deserve to be represented by someone. She is there to represent the lunatic faction of the American population. There are a few others that help her, because there are a large number of lunatics in the United States that need representation. That doesn’t mean that their views are any more valid or important than anyone else’s, but they’re crazy, in line with those of the people they represent.
You said that certain things don’t deserve a platform. That means that someone decides what is acceptable or not. That my fellow citizen is called censorship.
EDIT: And FWIW, our government technically does permit censorship of its members. This is via censure and impeachment. Those tools are utterly useless though due to disingenuous politicking for personal gain.
I'm sorry, but there are certain opinions or "takes" that simply do not deserve a platform. I'm open to hearing the "conservative" reasoning behind lower taxes or whatever. You don't give a megaphone to the lunatic ranting about Jewish space lasers though. Reality matters. Truth matters. Lunacy only breeds more lunacy. What's considered "fringe" yesterday is a full blown cult movement today. We witnessed this pizzagate, we witnessed it with COVID, we witnessed it with Q. These things start niche and absurd. Give them even a moment on a real platform though and they proliferate like a freaking virus.
I didn't. I said the belief that all ideas deserve to be heard is toxic. You know what would happen if some jackass in my workplace started ranting about their peers being demonic pedophiles? They'd be thrown the fuck out, as is deserved. You wanna go to your local public park, stand on a soapbox, and yell at the clouds, be my guest. Bringing that bullshit into positions of power, however, actively hurts people. God forbid we strive for a government that isn't allowed to tell outright lies to the people it's supposed to represent.