I believe that the security deposit still must be returned within 30 days of when you move out - minus any damages and rent withheld. But that part may vary by state.
In general, yes. If you’re required to give 60 days notice and you only give 30 and move out, that remaining 30 days can be withheld from your security deposit.
I assumed they would keep the security deposit due to the 60 day notice requirement being under the security deposit section.
17.5 All the following conditions must be fulfilled before the return of the security deposit to the Tenant. (1) Tenant has occupied the.
premises for the full term of this lease. (2) Written notice is given to Landlord, at least sixty (60) days prior to vacating the.
Tenant has given sixty (60) days written notice of intent to vacate, Tenant has been cooperative by showing the property to.
Upon vacating, the Tenant shall surrender the premises back to the Landlord in the same condition as the premises was.
manner constitute a waiver of the Landlord’s rights in the event of the Tenant’s failure to make rental payments as herein.
3.6 The Tenant agrees further that acceptance and/or refusal by the Landlord of the rent payment after the due date shall in no.
17.3 The Tenant agrees to provide the Landlord, in writing, a forwarding address upon vacating the Premises.
17.4 The Landlord agrees to return to the Tenant the security deposit, or whatever part has not been applied in payment of any.
17.1 The Tenant agrees to deposit with the Landlord the sum of $945.00 as security for his or her faithful performance under the.
3.1 The Tenant agrees to pay as rent for the Premises the total sum of $11,340.00 dollars at the rate of $945.00 (total monthly.
3.7 Tenant agrees if an eviction proceeding is initiated, to pay an eviction filing charge of $400.00 in addition to any amount then.
received shall be applied to eviction filing charge first then the standing process as stated in section 3.2.
3.5 Tenant is responsible for identifying the premises for which the payment is to be applied. Landlord will not be responsible.
demand the rent when due shall not constitute a waiver by the Landlord. Tenant by signing this Lease, knowingly and.
Lease and by law. The Tenant agrees the deposit is not an advance payment of rent and does not relieve the obligation to pay.
3.8 If a payment in any form is declined or returned for any reason, the Tenant agrees to pay a charge of $ 50.00 in addition to the.
3.4 Rent and other sums to be paid shall be dropped off at our office, mailed to our office, or paid online (see instructions for.
prescribed and agreed, nor shall it be considered as a change in the date upon which the Tenant is to pay said rent. Failure to.