"I also fixed his campaign, which had completely fallen apart. I was all in for Ron, and he beat Gillum, but after the Race, when votes were being stolen by the corrupt Election process in Broward County, and Ron was going down ten thousand votes a day, along with now-Senator Rick Scott, I sent in the FBI and the U.S. Attorneys, and the ballot theft immediately ended, just prior to them running out of the votes necessary to win. I stopped his Election from being stolen.".
Man... I have no proof for this, it's only a feeling, but I tend to think Trump and his lackeys fucked with the 2020 election a LOT more than has ever been alleged. Usually when Trump accuses someone of doing something, it's something he himself is doing.
Again, I got no proof, and it's all speculation, but I would not be surprised if Trump and Co did all kinds of illegal vote tampering shit on 2020.
How in the hell do they think a clandestine fraud operation could possibly fix tens-of-thousands of votes? The logistics alone would be absurd, much less getting enough people to commit felonies. And, in this hypothetical instance of literally truckloads of fraudulent ballots floating around, they didn't manage to apprehend a single one?
Now, I'm aware that Trump is entirely making this up. Probably on the fly, at that. Still, couldn't he at least make it more believable? It doesn't take 10k votes to fix an election. It takes swinging a few counties here, a few to there, by believably slim margins. Like dude, at least try with your lies...
He's CLEARLY lying about this one. I can't believe how many people on this thread (and the author of this article for that matter) seem to think that he's talking about any real event or confessing to a crime. He is talking out his ass and just making shit up on the fly.
Of course, this is all complete bullshit, because if the FBI had actually gone into Florida to prevent large-scale election theft, it would have made the news. He just made this horseshit up today, probably two minutes before tweeting it (or "truthing" it or whatever). But I don't get why everyone is assuming that he is claiming to have rigged the election, when it seems clear to me that that is not what this says.