Keep scrolling down on the link- from your description, you have a "fixed term lease." The info about the month-to-month lease or oral lease doesn't apply to you. Your lease isn't up until November 2021 and unless the lease specifically says otherwise, they can't require you to leave before then.
I'm guessing it's the latter given everything else you've said (and specifically that you have said it is a year long lease with a specific start and end date). It would be odd to have a year long lease that is also described as automatically renewing month-to-month. It is not uncommon to have a fixed term lease that automatically becomes a month-to-month lease at the end of the original term. Basically, it is a clause that just defines what happens if neither you nor the landlord do anything at the end of the lease, (like give notice to leave or sign a new longer fixed term lease). Your terms if they sold the building are whatever your lease currently states the terms are.
Ending tenancy is not a problem for me, I was never going to renew my lease. My military orders end the same day my lease does so I am set on that.
I am confused by this though, My lease says "renews on a monthly basis" however My lease is listed from december 2020 - November 2021. So am I covered as a year long lease, or is my lease "up" every month and they can give me a 30 day notice? If thats the case I have less options and leverage in the situation.
My only question is, is there anyway she can legally kick me out? I tried looking through the lease for anything and there is no statement or clause about being able to end the lease early for a sale. Is there anything she could even add to a lease to make it possible?
Your lease is valid, and you have an opportunity here if you want it. If you would be willing to give up the unit, say so, but do it on your terms. It would be reasonable to ask your landlord to return your deposit in full, cover your moving expenses, and to compensate you for losing the rest of your lease - a couple of months' rent isn't excessive, and you can aim as high as you think your landlord will tolerate.
If you are not interested in moving, then you are entitled to possession through to the end of your lease, although you should assume that your landlord will give notice to end your tenancy at that point and that the remainder of your tenancy will be pretty hostile.