Cyclical views of history also exist, such as the Chinese notion of the 'dynastic cycle' in which states are inherently destined to rise and fall, with broadly similar features (particularly accelerating corruption and natural disasters) heralding their fall. But in some ways these cyclical models actually claim less predictive power than they appear: in the case of the 'dynastic cycle' model, it simply predicts that any state will, eventually, fall, and it prescribes a universal pattern of how those states will fall, but they don't necessarily manage to offer an effective model to explain why any particular state will fall when it did. Pundits (mostly Western) have been using the 'Mandate of Heaven' to argue that the current Chinese state will fall imminently for one and a half centuries, going back to Thomas Taylor Meadows in 1856, and very few have lucked out and got it right just by virtue of being the one to make the prediction closest to the actual event. Moreover, while the 'dynastic cycle' model is often invoked, even today, in the context of the fall of states, it really doesn't do a good job predicting how states will rise – will the old state simply be usurped from within? Be conquered from without? Fragment entirely into warring entities from which a new hegemon will emerge? All of these have occurred in Chinese history and I can think of no overarching explanation of what happens after a fall.
A consistent issue with these grand models is that they tend to see patterns in a superficial succession of cherry-picked outcomes, to which they ascribe cherry-picked conditions and processes, and then extrapolate from them to the rest of human history. But then you end up with either:
Now, that's not to say there have not been theories of history predicated on the idea that history does have an ultimate trajectory, but this is somewhat different than what you seem to have sketched out. Various dialectical, teleological approaches have been in vogue among some or most historians, at least in Western practice: there's Whiggism's notion that humanity is in continual 'progress', however vaguely understood, towards liberal constitutional monarchy (or latterly liberal democracy); or Marxism's idea that societies predictably go through stages of material relations until eventually reaching the classless, stateless utopia of Communism. But what these grand theories don't do is offer a sort of simple equation where Conditions ABC = Outcome XYZ in a predictable manner: even the most ardent Whigs like Macaulay accepted that there would be points of 'stagnation' or even 'regress' within the presumed 'progressive' trajectory of history. And moreover, these models are, frankly, wrong, or at least predicated on a typically Eurocentric view of history that presumes that the current state of affairs was the intentional product of the past.
For those of us most concerned with how potential actions in the present may affect the future, it would be absurd to ignore history as one of the places to look for patterns that may, as a popular saying goes, don't exactly repeat but have a powerful tendency to rhyme.