I would strongly second the first part of this and suggest— rather than diving on to material you may read during your MA already, that you go and read for fun. If you’re someone who doesn’t normally read at all, it might be helpful to just try to get in the habit with lighter fare.
Don't worry too much about your reading habits, at least not yet. It takes a more special person than is often acknowledged to read through masses of material without a question in mind. A mentor once told me that "...as odd as it sounds, questions precede content." What does that mean in practice? It isn't a metaphysical thing, some sort of admission that the real world is the product of our minds. Rather, it strikes at the observation that our sources are limited in what they can tell us on first analysis compared to what you'll eventually want to know. The thing that you'll want to know can't be known from positive readings of the sources, so you'll have to make up the distance by asking reasonable questions about the nature of the space between our sources. Your questions, in what should be a controlled manner, create and imagine that space. Thus "...questions precede content." For me, and this is all to our point, this draws into sight the idea that content without a question sometimes misses the meat of history altogether: it runs a greater risk of becoming unstructured and unanalyzed data, which the mind doesn't hold well. Reading gets better as you find things to read for.
That's my big advice on life. Other people around here might disagree with me, and that's probably for the best!
I'd also recommend looking at Wickham's "The Inheritance of Rome" over either of the prior. It is less of a magnum opus type work, but focuses on providing broad thematic and regional overviews in a way that is helpful and (important) can be intelligibly read as chapters rather than signing on to read 1200 pages (which is sometimes fun!).
McCormick, Michael. Origins of the European Economy: Communications and Commerce AD 300 - 900. (Cambridge, 2002).