Republicans are too dense to grasp the fact (or do not care) that Capitalism is mostly a Fiefdom with the Earl in his castle and the Serfs tilling the fields.
I would therefore suggest that in order to raise the national I.Q. level whilst simultaneously improving our balance of trade figures, we export the G.O.P overseas.
They are also too dense to grasp that Socialism ( which in their ignorance they insist is Communism) is actually Humanitarianism where society looks after its own whilst permitting each to profit according to his or her own skills and abilities.
When describing that socialism will actually mean more control over your work day and a claim to the money you boss makes off your work, it is more popular than the common American imagining of "socialism" of your taxes go up and maybe you get some more services, but maybe not and it all goes to the army and Congress's dumbest nephews' contracting firms.
People's definition of socialism range from government programs (social democracy), to control over the means of production by the works (democratic socialism), to communism (which itself has a broad public definition), to brutal tyranny (fascist dictators). There are literally people on Reddit who argue, incorrectly, that Nazi Germany was socialist because the party name had that word in it.
If you're going to define "socialism" as what Nazi Germany, Maoist China, and Stalinist Russia did, of course people are going to (rightfully) say that's bad. But what about modern countries with a much strong social democracy model (aka "welfare states"), of which the Nordic countries tend to be the most-used example?
If you want Nordic social democracy, it would make sense to try and use effective messaging, rather than doing all this sort of partial defense of the term socialism.
But I agree that there are a lot of people who identify as socialists but are actually social democrats or just left-liberals. They are probably overrepresented online and among the university set.