But also, let’s consider the numbers. You stop right before Antoninus Pius, who had 4 children, and who was followed by Marcus Aurelius, who had 14, far and away the most prolific of all. Lucius Verus, his co-emperor, had 3. But three people could be down to an expected level of random clustering, so we need to look at a larger sample.
Archeological studies estimating population growth over time and factoring death rate seem to support a low birth rate, as does awareness of Augustus’ famous tax laws to encourage marriage and childbirth (despite only having one of his own), the Lex Julia de Maritandis Ordinibus, framed (arguably similarly, but unlike today) as punishing the single and childless with an extra tax, rather than providing breaks to the married and parents.
5. Succession was not managed the same way as in most monarchies we think of today, and heirs were often chosen from other relatives or by adoption. So there was not quite the same pressing need to continue the line that we see in medieval Europe, and in fact it was precisely because being the emperor’s first son did not imply succession that several emperors took pains to declare their sons co-emperors in their own lifetimes.
Also, it is not that early emperors did not have children, it is that often those children did not live long enough to succeed them, necessitating adoption of other heirs.
Succession by adoption was exceedingly common, at least in the early days of the Empire. Between the reigns of Julius Caesar and Trajan (the period with which I am most familiar) only one emperor was the true born son of his predecessor (Titus taking over from Vespasian in AD79). Succession by adoption, as you put it, was not so much connected to low fertility or an absence of children, it was a way of legitmising the succession of the new Emperor. Adoption, to the Romans at least among the ruling class, was nothing like adoption today. A man would usually adopt another as his son as a way of bringing him into the family, or of signalling his desired successor. Caesar adopted Augustus (then Octavian) as his son, even tho they were actually related (Octavian was Caesar's great-nephew). Augustus himself adopted several relatives - through family or marriage - as his sons Gaius, Lucius, Postumus and then Tiberius, who eventually succeeded him. This trend continued right through the period I am discussing. The fact that adoption was so important to succession can be seen clearly through Agrippina's reputed insistence that her husband Claudius adopt her son Nero as his legal child, despite Claudius already having a natural born heir in Britannicus. This gave Nero the legitimacy he needed to be taken seriously as a ruler, and was seen as a way of signalling Claudius' intent regarding his choice of successor.