Exactly. It's unfortunate because the most compelling and haunting lesson from the second world war is just how susceptible we are to mass hysteria and derangement. But it's a far more comforting narrative to say people were simply misled, coerced, forced into doing things they didn't want to.
Problem is that "accurate" and "soundbites" are not often compatible. The more you simplify a historical narrative, the less accurate, and more misleading, it becomes. To take the full complexities of something like the Holocaust and narrowing it to soundbites, something is lost. You lose out on some part of the truth.
So where are they getting this false truth from in the first place? Mainly places where respectable historians often don't hang out. Even here on Reddit, this fairly-well-regarded sub... How many historians do you know, and how many are not on here?
Secondly, of those who are in those areas of mass media, be it Facebook, Youtube, or wherever, how many are 'on the offensive' instead of merely reacting to other output? Even if you were to respond to every single of the ten videos about "X" out there, such as "Panther tank good, Sherman tank bad", and a word of approval for that one good one out of eleven, that's still not getting first truth in. Put simply, we're not doing a good job of fighting on the important battleground.
Firstly, it's winning what the PsyOps folks call "The Battle of First Truth." Basically, what it means is that the first person on top of the hill doesn't have to do any work to become king of the hill. However, anyone which comes afterwards has to knock the first guy off. There is nothing to 'challenge' before the first truth becomes imprinted. If you can get the 'truth' into them first, then no matter how 'quippy' the falsehood is, then the falsehood has to have the legs to replace the truth.
From my personal experiences (read: frustrations) with the peddling of such myths and falsehoods, it's a constant battle between telling someone a detailed, boring truth vs. a short, quippy, and wrong falsehood. People who are willing to dig deeper will eventually find the source of the claim and why it's wrong and stop believing in it. People who will take the quippy wrong fact and just leave it at that without looking any deeper into it are the ones who'll continue to peddle it, likely in your "well, acktually" tone as per classic Reddit.