Do you mean he is letting his parents see her during his parenting time? Unless the order is very specific about only him being allowed to pick her up there isn't much you can do about that.
Talk to a lawyer about their termination. It is very hard to terminate parental rights and him not seeing her for weeks isn't going to do it, especially if his parents are still using his time.
If his parents start paying for child support it makes it harder to terminate his rights as he is still fulfilling his duty, him not seeing her can work in your favor, as he is showing he is abandoning his parental duties, with not doing both. But most importantly speak to a lawyer before accepting any money from his parents on your ex's behalf and about his parental termination.
Why are you seeking to have his parental rights terminated instead of just asking him if your husband can adopt your daughter? According to yourself, your ex hasn't seen your daughter in weeks and doesn't seem to have any interest in being a father to her. Just ask him if he'd be willing to let your husband adopt your daughter and sign away his rights that way. Much cheaper, faster and less acrimonious than dragging your ex into court to petition for his parental rights to be terminated by the state.
Because why would it even matter to you who paid the child support or where the monry came from? You'd be getting the money owed to you. Also, in a comment you blatantly asked if them paying the back child support would interfere with your mission to have your ex's parental rights terminated. You also asked "Can they legally do that? What can I do here?". Presumably you meant what you can do to stop your ex's parents from paying the back child support.
The question I asked was if it was legal for them to pay his child support. I simply didn’t know which is why I asked that question. Not that it’s an issue as to where it comes from but if that is okay. I have no idea why people think I have an issue with them paying it.
Why would they pay her directly? The goal here is to clear his outstanding debt, of course they'd pay her through official channels.