Also, I'm sure for every drag show there are 20 titty bars and no Florida politician is citing any of them as "public nuisances.".
But that’s beyond the point. The very suggestion that it may be harmful is met with nothing but accusations that it’s always an insincere proposal based in hatred and disgust. That there is not validity in the concern and can never be.
The idea that COVID was some serious threat to the health of children that is totally ignored by people on the right is a complete fabrication and there is no justification for comparing it as such to parental concern about the exposure of children to live sexual performances.
Once again, “child death from COVID” specifically is a completely irrelevant point to bring up when talking about the potential sexualization of kids, and making the original comment about something other than it was is disingenuous.
I fall well short on agreeing with the notion that there’s “nothing inherently damaging to a child’s development” when it comes to children being exposed to sexually explicit/suggestive content, particularly in live performances, not educational purposes, and at very young ages.
Because the state has a vested interest in making sure children aren’t being sexually exploited, and it’s very much arguable that exposure to in-person performances of a sexual nature does that very thing?
There’s plenty of research into actual child sex abuse being problematic for the development of kids, and it is generally accepted (as it should be) in society that children cannot consent to participation in sexual acts. I can link to studies and data about that and about more general exposure to sexual content and the effect on children, but not particularly the effects of Drag in isolation.
What “authoritative facts and figures” could I possibly cite on drag show effects on children, if the very hypothesis that they are harmful to kids would present an ethical dilemma in studying it? Of course I’m going to refer to authoritative facts and figures to debunk a claim when I can.