For the majority of my career I admit I have been wrong. I had argued that Russia pulled all the stops in the name of winning and I had argued that the US fought under a leash of “integrity and honor” which ceded so much maneuver room to Russia both politically and strategically. Absent of the disasterous Ukraine campaign in which Russia just commits all its men and materials to a meat grinder, it seemed as though Russia would win the war of attrition against the US by buying out allies, increasing the cost and time of conflicts by propping up proxies, and conducting expansionist campaigns like Crimea 2014 and Georgia 2008 with impunity.
Even in this moment I believe that the US is holding back more than if the tables were reversed. Objectively, the world would benefit with the destruction of the Russian Federation as a State entity. With an ultimate goal to denuclearize the Russian subcontinent, there is enough casus belli to justify a “wartime footing” of stationing military forces in Europe and opening supply chains to prepare for an potential open conflict. The US promises “retaliation” if Russia uses nukes, but based on the current disposition of U.S. forces, how and what time scale would it be able to affect this guarantee if Russia were to make a misstep? A misstep just like they invaded Ukraine with faulty intelligence.
Critics of the US will want to disagree with my assessment but the reality is that the nation toppling Cabal was only a function of the Cold War. And that ever since the Cold War the US has focused on soft power as the means to obtain legitimacy. Even the Iraq and Afghanistan wars while appearing as invasions were done under appropriate at the time wartime powers and and international processes with invitations of local backers on the ground. It appears that by leading from within international law, the US has earned the trust and respect of the international community while simultaneously exposing the emptiness of Russian hegemony.
But the conflict in Ukraine has shown the US’s supremacy in soft power. The US was proven right for the intelligence sharing leading into the Russian invasion. Nearly all nations except some rogue states (Iran and NK) have heeded the international sanctions- even China and Soviet bloc Central Asia states will not budge on dodging sanctions despite a perception that there would be nothing the US could do militarily to enforce. And in this moment of the article, no one outside of Russia believes Russias claim that Ukraine is perpetuating the conflict- that all actions as the US has consistently prescribed - are a part of a Russian failed takeover of a sovereign nation.
They think Ukraine should want a peace that means they lose a large portion of their country and their momentum in this war they think they should want a relief from the bombings and mean heartless Zelensky isn't letting Ukranians just live in peace under Russian rule.
The Baltics and Poland are never letting this go, it's an existential war for us and Ukrainians spilling their blood for freedom and democracy will never be forgotten.