The burqa isn't commonplace in "Islamic society", if you mean common among Muslims worldwide. It's specifically a type of veil from Afghanistan and South Asia - although there is a Central Asian variant called paranji.
Mainly Afghanistan -- the burka is a central Asian cultural garment, not an "Islamic" garment. The burka (Full body and face covering with a mesh over the eyes, usually in blue) is not the same as the niqab (full body and face covering with an opening for eyes). The countries you mention banned all forms of either veiling or full body veiling, including but not specific to the burka.
However, that is not to say that veiling was necessarily widespread in Arabia itself. Women of the jahilyya pre-Islamic period did not normally don a veil. This of course varied from city to countryside, with cities being more likely to veil. Overall, nowhere was the veil common to the extent of places like neighboring Syria and Palestine. As you noted in your question, sexual relations in Arabia were more open than in those other societies, with both polygamy and polyandry being present.
This is what I suspect to be the more interesting section – why did Islam develop the way it did, when women played such major roles in pre-Islamic and early Islamic times?
The most comprehensive answer above has given you a good idea of the role of women in early Islamic society. I also wanted to give a few examples of other interesting situations in Arabic culture/law in terms of women.
Different schools (and there are four main schools in Islam, called madhab) argued that women should conduct themselves differently. Some said that women's entire bodies were awra, which is basically a way of saying private parts, and that they should therefore cover themselves entirely. Others said that women could go uncovered and have hands and legs relatively bared. Unsurprisingly, the parts of a woman that non-related men could see also correlated to a woman's ability to participate in wider society. Many women held property, participated in commerce and the market, etc.