Before discussing them, we first need to talk a bit about a different Jewish historical figure from the previous century, Sabbatai Zevi (to use Wikipedia's spelling). He was a mystic and false messiah who arose in the Ottoman Empire in 1648, accumulating followers, including a prophet named Nathan of Gaza, and essentially turning the Jewish communities of Europe, Africa and the Middle East upside down. Families and communities split in two over whether their members were adherents of the Sabbatean movement or not. The movement itself was a fascinating one, involving the purposeful violation of Torah laws, increased participation of women, and hints of sexual scandal, such as in Zevi's marriage to a prostitute. Jews throughout the world hoped that Zevi was indeed the messiah and would soon lead them to their redemption in the Land of Israel; for example, the memoirist Gluckel of Hameln recorded that her father-in-law packed his possessions and provisions and stored them for a year, waiting for the call of the messiah. Unfortunately for him and the many other adherents of Sabbateanism, this never took place; in 1666, Zevi was imprisoned by the sultan, Mehmed IV, and after several months chose to convert to Islam, essentially ending the (open) legitimacy of the movement.
The battle got much, much uglier than just the waving around of suspicious amulets. Emden was undeniably absolutely vicious, making accusations not just theological but sexual immorality against Eybeschuetz and his wife, going so far as to blame the immoral ways of Eybeschuetz's wife for her breast cancer, which resulted in the amputation of her breasts. Emden also accused Eybeschuetz of praising Zevi in a poem on his wife's tombstone, being a Frankist (part of a Sabbatean group which had converted to Christianity and was known for its bizarre sexual proclivities and for badmouthing the Jewish community), and accuse him of greenlighting violations of Jewish law in the name of Sabbateanism. (He also made many accusations against Eybeschuetz's son, though the son was an open Sabbatean and those accusations were therefore very probably true.) Eybeschuetz fought back by producing a book of tens of rabbis who defended him as well as by bringing the King of Denmark (which then ruled AH"U) to his side, though he was also opposed by some of the leading rabbis in the era. (Eybeschuetz's power actually led to some of his opponents losing their rabbinic positions.).
2. The French book of rates: being a collection of the tariffs & regulations, of the duties both of importation & exportation of merchandizes in France. With the particular edicts, arrests, and declarations, settling and establishing the same in all the respective custom-houses of France. Done out of French. London, 1714.
The date is 9 July 1714. After ruling England and then Great Britain for twelve years, Queen Anne is on her deathbed after years of poor health, punctuated by losing her ability to walk or stand for a number of months in 1713. On the floor of Parliament, Robert Harley’s tory government passes ”An Act for Providing a Public Reward for Such Person or Persons as shall Discover the Longitude at Sea”. More well know to history as the Longitude Act, the legislation established the first longitude prize in Britain—Spain and the Netherlands had established such rewards in the 16th-century and the French had instituted their own earlier in 1714—and an accompanying Board of Longitude to review the various proposed methods. Determining longitude at sea with any real accuracy had long troubled sailors. Timekeepers were not yet accurate enough, lunar observations too difficult to conduct at sea, and the guess work of dead reckoning was known to be inadequate. ().