Having redundant gas supplies is a question of national security, and no different from e.g. using money on a navy to guard your trade in other ways.
And yet Germany still used $50nillion/year for national security. Which is "think[ing] about the war around the corner". Which Merkel etc. apparently had no problem convincing the German people to pay.
Germany has a military budget of $50 billion/year. Earmarking a few $billion of that to energy supply national security should not be controversial to rational people. We have seen what happens when you don't, as was predictable and predicted by many smart people critical of Germany's gas dependence.
What Germans don't even bother considering is how their insane self harm energy policy hurts not only them,but rest of the EU just aswell. Finland has made its share of Russian-related mistakes over the years. Luckily not on the field of energy though. Once our new nuclear plant finally gets going (imagine that!) in few months, we are self reliant on energy. Just that it doesn"t help much. Due to some insane fucking cartel racket that EU energy market has going, many Finns pay 10x more from energy than they used to, thanks to German stupidity. This assuming said Finn has a contract with an electric company that is part of said racket. Most are. Entire EU is paying a terrible price for idiocy of central EU's lust to deepthroat putin's gas pipe.
However i still often see Europeon countries news bitching about a few Million for this project or that. so arguing to spend 10 billion or so on some LNG storage terminals you may or may not need. (and lets be honest here, if you beleive in your government that you likely helped elect you probably think they are steering the ship well enough that they would be the canary in the colemine on this, NOT you) Tends to be a bit of a hard sell. When you could be spending that on healthcare, Public education, or Child-care service subsidies.
i think the war in ukraine has proven how woefully misappropriated AND inadiquate that amount is for a nation the size of germany.
That's a dumb plan because it would be devastating to europe and germany, not to russia. Germany is just one of russia's many customers while russia is the main supplier of Germany. I don't even understand how top decision makers thought it was a good idea.