Contact the DCF in MA and tell them what you have written here. If you truly do not believe you can care for your son right now yourself, regardless of the support they can provide, say that. If they don't take you seriously, ask to speak to a supervisor. If you want to care for him, but don't want him to be homeless or lack food- they can likely provide resources to help you. If you need mental health treatment, they can help arrange a family or foster placement for your child while you are in treatment. If you just can't care for him right now - that is okay. You may need to be insistent in order for them to understand you truly cannot care for him right now, but they will take him.
Another thing to consider is contacting a domestic violence organization in your area for help coordinating your exit from your abusive father's household. They can provide temporary housing to individuals (and children if you want to stay with your son) leaving abusive households and help connect you to local resources and social services (food, shelter, legal, etc).
They may be able to help get you and your child into housing, get monetary assistance from government and charitable resources. That's IF you think, with proper support, you might be able to care for your son. They also may be able to help you get treatment for your mental illness.
CALL. DCF. sooner, rather than later. Talk to them. There are a LOT of things that they may be able to do.
This link will tell you where in Mass you need to call, it is based by town as to which DCF office handles child welfare cases.
Your best option is probably to contact your local department of family services(CPS, DCS, DCFS, idk what they're called in your area). If they determine the baby is unsafe in your care/the current environment they can take the baby into state custody to ensure his safety. Or you can just tell the father you're going to do that if he won't sign off on adoption, and hopefully he'd rather cooperate and let you hand pick a family for your child than trust overworked social workers and the foster care system to handle it. Either way he can't actually force you to keep a child you're unequipped to care for.