Teacher’s Unions do not help educate children. Their mission is to protect the interests of its members, of course, that is the purpose of a union. In California the union has long been a reason California schools are failing. Government has no profit motive, meaning unions have no all powerful owner whose whims or excesses hurt the workers. If California did away with public sector unions, schools would improve and teacher pay would increase. I worked for the union at the beginning of my career, and left before it was clear to me the union hurt education of our kids.
Because the unions make it near impossible to fire bad teachers. Allowing the bottom 5% or so of the profession to be replaced helps get new, dedicated educators into jobs held by those without that dedication (or perhaps the skill) who presently cannot be fired because of the union. At least that is the case here in California. I cannot speak to other states, I have not worked for the teachers union there.
Pompeo was making the point that if we do not educate our children well, it will be the end of the Republic. Which of course is true - our American military and its technology can protect us from foreign adversaries but it cannot prepare the next generation of Americans to lead the world.
Allowing the profession to be better rewarded for their services while allowing districts more liberty to dismiss poor teachers helps the kids and the teachers who are succeeding. Some teachers put in so much overtime for which they are unpaid, while the bottom of the profession does just enough to not get fired. Which again, in California, is almost impossible - firing teachers is sooooo hard here. Disband the union and give nice pay raises for teachers attracting even more to this necessary profession. Reward the best, and replace those who do not honor their profession. Seems like a good proposal for all concerned. Well all but the bad teachers who dishonor the vast majority of dedicated professionals who teach our kids.
Now certain segment of society want to vilify teachers? Again? Didn’t we go through this before Covid? Perhaps teachers are seen as an easy target, a small percentage of the working population that is a safe bet to target. We already have a shortage of good educators in this country. For most, the pay is low and the hours are longer and more involved than people realize. Teachers do what they do because they genuinely enjoy it. They like working with the kids, they like making connections, they like helping a struggling student come to that, “oh, I get it now” moment.
Keep denigrating teachers, Mike. You others who have some pathetic axe to grind because you received an F in 10th grade keep up the negative rhetoric. When the teacher shortage reaches epic proportions perhaps you’ll “learn” it wasn’t wise to target an essential part of your country’s workforce.
Then, after a time, start to demonize those remaining teachers as they try and take measures to protect themselves, their professions, and their curriculum from the crazies. Invent stories of things you hate, specifically high-level educational concepts that don't even touch public education, as you further drive your supporters down the rabbit hole of hating what was once considered the foundation of America's success.