How old are you and how old are the accounts? Are you the primary user named on all of the cards, or are you an authorized user on some of them?
8 cards in your name: There is a concept called being an 'authorized user" on a card. This means they get an extra copy of THEIR OWN card and give it to you (or not give it to you) and their account shows up on your credit report. This will help or hurt you depending on how well they keep up with the payments. If they miss payments then the missed payments show up on your report. If you are an authorized user then they should be able to show your their own card (unless they have made you primary and added themselves as authorized user).
NAL It is possible they added you as an authorized user to (a) credit card(s), which sounds like what they're claiming.
This IS NOT an attempt to build credit for you, if it was, you would be a mere cosigner, you would have your copy of the cards to use at your will. Not a chance. Sadly, this is a really common type of fraud and luckily you caught them when you did and are not already tens of thousands in debt, as is the average child whose parent steals their identity for credit, before they realize that this has taken place.
As an aside, if these accounts were opened in your name as a minor, then they also committed fraud because I I sure they changed your date of birth to reflect being of legal age to even open all these accounts. There is a minimum age for credit to be extended because otherwise kids would be opening cards and have no means to repay.
The usual intent is to let the parent's GOOD credit history show up on the child's credit report so the child can get better credit deals when first starting out. Once the child has some good credit history of their own then they can be dropped as an authorized user.
- If you are an authorized user on this card then it will remove the history from your report and improve your score. It can be done with a simple phone call and costs nothing. If they are doing this to help your credit score then they should welcome this idea. If they tell you the card must be paid off before removing you then they are either mistaken or they know the card is in your name.
1) If you are an authorized user on any card that has a bad payment history, then can they drop you as an authorized user on that card?
- If you are the cardholder rather than an authorized user then they will have to pay the card off and the credit history will stay with you. If this is the case then they have likely committed a few felonies related to fraud and identity theft.