It's an interesting question that almost doesn't seem to fit this subreddit. It's as much a question of linguistics and etymology as it is of history, since it makes some presumptions that relate to modern perception of surnames.
That's a great answer, and one can also raise a point that such relatively insulting-sounding surnames were not taken as insulting back in the day, much less so now.
First of all, almost all of these surnames do not sound like insulting or negative. When Russian hears ‘Chekhov’, he doesn’t think about old word for sneeze (also, I don’t think this one is true at all), it’s just a surname for him/her without any real meaning.
Some of these surnames maybe were initially created as nicknames but now Russians often do not use or do not know the words these nicknames were based on.
I would say, in Russian nicknames are person-specific, too. You can be Mitya or Dima if your full name is Dmitry, but people will stick to one nickname and won't attempt to use Mitya for a person who always uses Dima. You parent might call you Miten'ka or Dimushka, your friends, Mit'ka or Dimon, but these will be diminutives from your "main" shorten name, not just random versions suitable for your full name. But in your IDs, you will be Dmitry, using a diminutive as a full passport name is still very rare, comparing to English-speaking countries.
But the more general question is whether unglamorous surnames are limited to Russian language. Surnames that reference (or seem to reference, such as Paine, which is unconnected to "pain") unglamorous concepts or objects are often heard in other language names as well; most of them don't read as direct descriptions of their bearers, or even can't be understood at all (being archaic or transformed). You don't think a man called Poore is poor, Petty is petty, or Black is swarthy. Similarly, you don't expect Hale to be especially healthy, and Osborne to be divine or bearlike. Whether surnames that resemble animals are negative or insulting is also an open question (is Horse or Hound negative? is Roach or Beetle? (even though not Roach nor Beetle are even derived from insects!..)).