Would it be a crime to incite other people to harass someone assuming no one makes the victim reasonably fear for their safety?
Also, a court may interpret the requirement for intent to harass to mean that the intent was to make the person fear for their safety (or the safety of someone known to them). So if the victim does not report feeling afraid for their safety (or the safety of anyone known to them), the Crown prosecutor may have a difficult time proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the intent was to harass and they may be unwilling to take on the case.
I see your post has a Canada tag. The way the Canadian Criminal Code is worded, the offence of 'Criminal harassment' applies—in particular—to situations involving conduct (such as repeated communications) that reasonably causes a person to fear for their safety or the safety of someone known to them.
If it's repeated calls done with the intent of harassing a person, then yes that would generally fall under the offence of harassing communications even if it does not cause the victim to fear for their safety (or the safety of someone known to them).
The offence of harassing communications basically applies when you repeatedly communicate with someone by means of telecommunication without lawful excuse and with intent to harass that person.
It would generally be a crime, assuming a court determines that the intent was to harass you with those repeated communications.
So the way the 'harassing communications' statute is written, the intent must be to harass. If there is no intent to harass or if there is a lawful justification for repeatedly calling/messaging the person, then it won't be considered 'harassing communications'.
There are certain cases where repeated messages or calls may not be intentionally harassing. For example, if someone is concerned for your safety and is trying to contact you to warn you about something (or to see if you're okay), that is a case where they may justifiably call or message you many times without intending to harass you.
Perhaps what you're really asking though is what the reasoning was behind adding harassing communications (as a separate offence) to the criminal code, but that's a more difficult question with a more complicated answer.
Having said that, without a complainant coming forward to report that they are being harassed, 'harassing communications' is generally not an offence that would be prosecuted. Thus, realistically/practically speaking, there needs to be a victim who—as the result of the unwanted communications—feels they've been harassed enough to warrant reporting the matter to the police.
You are free to document the harassment and report it to the police, but in reality it's difficult for them to pursue it when a more practical solution is to get off social media, go private, block /ignore, and report the fake accounts to the platform.