The vast majority of hereditary house of lord members in this time period were mostly conservatives with number of Liberal Lords outnumbering those affiliated with the labour party meaning that their agenda faced little resistance in the house of lords. This ratio is still preserved today in the distribution of hereditary house of lord seats where 42 lords are elected by the Conservative party, 3 lords by the Liberal Democrats and just 2 lords by the Labour Party. This mean little trouble would come from the house of lords to the conservative party who naturally viewed reform of this house as an unneeded expenditure of political capital that would go against the parties traditional values.
This would go too much into modern politics but there were reform efforts that would have gotten rid of all hereditary lords during the coallation drive by the liberal democrats that failed due to backbench Tory opposition. Blair's also attempted reform but again lack of agreement about how the new house of lords should work prevented that.
Reform Attempts were made later by Blair and during the Coalition Government to a more permanent change to the House of Lords.
In 1997 Tony Blair led Labour back into power in one of the parties largest landslides winning a majority winning 418 seats to the conservatives 165. On the back of this was a manifesto promise "The House of Lords must be reformed. As an initial, self-contained reform, not dependent on further reform in the future, the right of hereditary Peers to sit and vote in the House of Lords will be ended by statute.". Important as given the Salbisury convention, the house of lords would be duty-bound to vote for the reform. This would also have the convient effect of making it less likley for the house of lords to be able to obstruct his governments policies which given his large commons majority could only face resistance in their house. In particular the house of lords had reaptedly voted against the goverments bill regarding the introduction of elections to european parliament. Blair Initially proposed abolition of the hereditary peers as the first-step towards a broader reform of the house of lords.
Those reforms all go beyond simply removing hereditary lords but include that as part of their plan.
If I'm reading this correctly, has there been discussion, if not outright efforts, to fully remove the hereditary lords (or any other major reform)? I realize that is getting to modern for here so don't feel obligated to get to into detail, but is that a correct interpretation?