Interestingly enough, the Infamous Decade was ended abruptly by yet another coup, which deposed de facto president Ramón Castillo and instituted a provisional military government led first by Pedro Ramírez (1943-1944) and then by Edelmiro Farrell (1944-1946). Farrell called for elections to be organized in 1945, the first free, democratic elections since Yrigoyen won in 1928. And along came president Juan Domingo Perón, who had been part of the military coup of 43, and had worked as Secretary of Labour and Social Security, Minister of War and Vice President under Farrell.
Argentina endured through six different coup d’etats in the span of the twentieth century. I’ve spoken about the last military dictatorship , a brutal dictatorship that disappeared, tortured and murdered over thirty thousand people. As soon as the democratically elected president Estela Martínez de Perón was removed from office, the military junta eliminated the National Constitution and Congress, effectively erasing every single human right and constitutional guarantee in a single, swift action.
As many examples in world history have showed, totalitarianism achieves dominance by a combination of factors, chiefly by the constant threat of impending violence, effectuated by the armed and police forces through the use of curfews, checkpoints and ID checks at all hours and in all places, and by a propaganda machinery that serves the purpose of inflicting more fear into three citizenship.
Such displays that both showed the force and strenh of a fascist movement – show what they could do and inflict upon the system virtually without impunity was a classical and essential strategy in their rise to power for it portrayed them as strong, established them as a force to be afraid of and portrayed the democracitcinstill terror and fear in their opponents and in the middle class.
Fascist movements rely on the perception of popularity, the sense of a mass movement determined to sweep away the fragile trappings of liberal democracy, to expose the perceived weakness and lack of determination at the heart of the system. This process is inherently violent – not just towards the political system, but those who support it, defend it and ultimately those who were once protected by it.
Fascism is by its nature, by its design a violent movement and so it is no stranger to both coups and other attempts to take political power and political space by violence. Indeed, violence and its public display is an essential ideological feature of fascism as a political ideology.
By displays of violence, Fascism seeks to transform politics from the – admittedly often skewed – exchange of ideas into an aesthetic experience itself: Aesthetic violence is the end point of fascist politics, not just its tool.
As such, fascists have always resorted to the use of political violence, including the forceful overthrow of democracies and coup attempts. The Nazis for example were very good at instrumentalizing violence: Instigating street fights with communists as well as with Berlin police in the 1920s for example as a way to demonstrate that they were the most effective force in battling those perceived as the enemy while portraying the democratic state, its government and institutions as weak.
Historically, Fascism is defeated by either massive social upset along the lines of the loss of WWII and Allied occupation of Germany or by massive deplatforming and public censure and limitation of Fascist rhetoric, marches etc.
Fascist politics share this trait by placing a larger emphasis on the ritual – masses, marches, book burnings, collective gatherings – rather than what is actually transported politically. For Nazis, it was not so much what Hitler said at some speech, it was how he said it – how he spoke, gesticulated, screamed – and how they experienced it – as part of a large crowd in a stadium, all acting in unison when screaming "Heil", wearing similar uniforms, marching in order etc. It is the experience of becoming part of a mass acting in a unified will; a community led by a single purpose; an intense feeling of belonging and becoming cog in a large machine of people that acts towards the ultimate goal of whatever you imagine deliverance to be.