For the year 1940-1941, nothing much would have changed, except that you would see the "vert-de-gris", German uniforms, here and there, and that you would sense a mood of hostility against teachers. Many commentators, such as Paul Claudel in Paris-Soir, were accusing you and your colleagues of being responsible for the defeat. Being back alive from the front would have made you look like a coward in the eyes of conservatives, because you were supposed to show the example and die for your country. In the Revue des Deux-Mondes during the Summer, Philippe Pétain would accuse teachers of inciting defeat by spreading pacifism and socialism, and some measures would be taken against them.
At the same time, Vichy leaders such as Philippe Pétain encouraged French children to go to Church and his government required public school teachers to incorporate religious instruction into their curriculum (Sweets, 1986.) So, whereas before the war, you would have focused on civics and government when teaching French culture, you were now expected to teach Catholicism as part of that culture. This would have also meant that in addition to other wartime restrictions, your school likely had its budget cut as the government elected to send money to private Catholic schools. In addition to making changes related to Catholic schools and funding, the Vichy government also moved around the country's education system, especially the various approaches to higher education. Which this wouldn't have directly impacted your curriculum, it likely would have shaped how your students thought about their future after you. (Note: as far as I can tell, the general sentiment among those who study French education history is that the Vichy's efforts to restructure French education failed as the country reverted fairly quickly after the war.).
There is always more than can be said and I freely admit that my research is limited by the fact I do not read French or German, but the best answer a historian can give you is likely: it depends.
I had a similar question when I started looking into the history - that is, I was curious if the curriculum shifted from pro-France to pro-Hitler. My sense based on the different sources I looked at that was that no, there was no major effort by the Vichy government to force teachers towards a more Hitler Youth style education. I'll defer to historians of World War II and childhood but from everything I could find, the curriculum remained French-centric. The reason for this, and again it's my understanding based on the history of education resources I'm familiar with, is that the cost of implementing such a curriculum in French schools simply wasn't worth it. They were able to achieve their goals under the existing French curriculum with the small, incremental changes listed in the answers above. And if a teacher did something that was perceived as too French, that is anti-German, they had structures for dealing with them.
I think the question is rather, did the Vichy government have control of the curriculum in Paris, which was under direct German occupation? Would schools in Paris still have Pétain as a model figure despite him not controlling Paris?