There are a couple of interesting accounts of AH early history by u/eternalkerri () and u/agentdcf () that sketch out the rather chaotic origins of the sub and the evolution of a strict moderation culture, a shift which they both date to c. 2012. However, the acceptance of a need for strict moderation doesn't quite translate into an immediate shift in sub culture towards the kind of answers we expect (and get) today - those norms evolved more slowly. My personal rule of thumb is that an answer older than 4-5 years is less likely to meet our current standards. That doesn't mean they're useless or actively wrong, just that the bar for what we consider to be good has risen considerably over time. Even then it's uneven though - there's some really great, high-effort content from the early days that very much still stands up to current standards.
This is hardwired into Reddit itself, so there's not much we can do other than offer workarounds - but it means that browsing by feed is a really bad way to enjoy this particular sub unfortunately.
Classic problem with mainstream and popular subs is that sensational, political or just off-topic posts will always gain more traction and upvotes than these more 'boring' for average reddit user. My rule of thumb is to ignore the most popular posts and focus on these with 20-40% less upvotes because they usually are more about the topic of subreddit. That's why at certain point moderation is really needed.
The downside of heavy moderation is that almost every post I see never gets answered properly, if at all.
Edit: the bigger issue I've noticed is that the moderation encourages replies to not be concise. A lot of tangential information is randomly thrown in now that doesn't actually help answer the question.
There's actually a significant degree to which the lack of answers is an illusion - not everything gets answered to be sure, but most questions popular enough to make it into your feed do. It boils down to Reddit's algorithms prioritising novelty. It thinks you want to see new, fresh posts, and so in the hours that it takes for an answer to appear, the post itself has often dropped out of your feed. Moreover, if you click on a post (and there's no answer), it assumes you don't want to see it again, even if it gets answered shortly afterwards...