A light linen shirt and an unlined light-weave wool/linen/woven cotton coat breathe pretty well, and also won't hold sweat like your knit cotton t-shirt. The cotton (or poly-cotton) tee is designed for its environment; being cool and dry it's quite comfortable, but it deals with sweat quite poorly, thus the recent interest in "performance" synthetics. (It's actually primarily designed to be cheap, which it does quite well.) Though it's nicely breathable when dry, pretty much any other fabric will perform better as far as holding moisture goes, even a woven cotton like seersucker, a popular summer fabric.
Of course, many of the details above aren't set in stone, linen was a favorable choice for keeping cool, but cotton, particularly in the US would be a cheap staple for creating clothing. Lighter colors would often be worn too, all the under layers undyed, and often fairly plain aside from maybe a ruffle at the bottom. The long sleeves of day wear at the time would keep the sun off you, protecting you along side a bonnet or parasol. But the honest fact is, it was mostly down the materials.
So, before I begin to answer, I just want to note that I have an interest in European fashion during the 19th and early 20th century, so my answer will be from the prospective of the western world, with a particular bent towards western Europe. Basically, if I fail to specify a particular or if I generalize, please assume that I'm referring to what amounts to Victorian fashion and culture in western Europe.
While wool and cotton would definitely have been a fairly common choice during the cooler months, men would have likely worn linen or cotton suits. For example, the stereotype of 19th century southern men wearing white linen suits came from somewhere. Wearing tan or sun bleached suits likely would have both protected the skin from the sun and help kept sweat off of them, keeping them cool. They would have worn undershirts, in cotton, although I must admit that I am uncertain when underwear, and what type, came into fashion for men.