First off, it should be said that Portugal was ruled under an authoritarian regime from 1926 to 1974. Over this period, the country had one leader over 40 years, António Oliveira Salazar. The regime was basically held together by him. How he ruled the country is a whole different topic, but one of the most key moments that led to the revolution was the advent of the 3 front Colonial War waged by Portugal against Angola, Mozambique and Portuguese Guinea.
In the late 50s, some people of the colonies wanted to be seen as Portuguese citizens. However, the Government wasn't keen on doing this. Consequently, the people in the colonies started to rebel against the Portuguese military units stationed there. Long story short, the war officially started in 1961. From a Portuguese POV this was a dirty war that nobody wanted, kinda like the American population and the Vietnam War. A lot of people were also conscripted to fight in the war, so much so that every family in the country has at least 1 person that has fought in the war. I, for instance, have 3 uncles who fought in the war. So we can tell for sure that a lot of people fought in a war they didn't want to fight in.
The Movement of the Captains had started and had become a full political movement with two key goals: to end the war and to replace the dictatorship for a democracy. Naturally, all the high-level officials in the military were the leaders of the movement, including two generals Spinola and Costa Gomes. The army had grown disloyal to the regime. The gears had started clogged turning and a revolution was in the plans. Queue in March 1974 and the Movement of the Captains, now called the Movement of the Armed Forces (MAF) started contacting the communist and democratic underground parties.
Can you elaborate a little on how the radicalization of the students and the contacts of the MAF with the Communist Party influenced the military as a whole?
Fast-forward to 1969, the war was growing into a slog and the college students were starting to get together and discussing Communist ideals, sort of starting to become the dissident class in the country. This year was key to the start of the revolutionary process. This was the year Salazar died. After his death, a new PM was appointed, Marcello Caetano. He was softer than Salazar and stated he had plans to start opening up the country to democracy and western ideals and he also shows intentions of slowing the war down and bringing it to and end in the near future. Needn't be said, that these were empty lies and never happened. The college students were continuously shot and killed during demonstrations and the bigger and bigger operations started happening in the war front. This started to stir a lot of opposition in the university circles, in the Clergy and especially in the military.