Ah yes, the hybrids rolling around and the cars with heavy electronic work and proprietary tech that REQUIRES a specialist with a specialized computer are easy to figure out.
So tech is not that complicated, automobiles are not that complicated. What is the complicated part that you can't figure out? You need a doctor? They're just going to give you antibiotics if you've got an infection. Tell me where it hurts. If you break your bone they're just going to set it the same way they did in previous centuries. You want an X-ray?
It's similar with something like auto mechanics. Yeah, sure there are hundreds of brands of automobiles but the vast majority are internal combustion engines and 99% of them are 4,6 or 8 cylinder models that are more or less similar. They have pistons, cylinders, valves, cranks, blocks, water or air cooling an intake and an exhaust system. This shit is quite generic and people can actually work on their own cars but they simply don't want to mess with it so they let someone else do it. That's not because they can't do it, it's because they don't want to bother with it.
But this is precisely where I'm right. EVs are actually much, much easier to maintain than IC vehicles.
The EV manufacturers could use relatively open standards like CANbus but therein lies the problem. The fact is that CANbus while being as close as it gets to an open standard for networked mechanical systems was created by industry insiders who intentionally left open all kinds of variations in the standard precisely so that vendor tie-in could be accomplished because it was written by people motivated to make a profit not to make the vehicles easy to maintain. It doesn't have to be that way though. It's quite a simple thing to simply put tariffs on EVs that don't follow the best practice recommendations for open CANbus systems so that anyone with a smart phone can program their car. This is not about true technical complexity but rather about a lack of will to regulate industry and to permit them to gouge the gullible public that easily falls into this mindless attitude that it's all too complicated for little ol' me to understand. That's bullshit. It's not complicated at all.