As a side note, I know everybody on Reddit is foaming at the mouth for a civilization-ending war for whatever reason, but it’s important to investigate these things thoroughly. We also have to remember that nation states are generally rational actors and that Russia’s geopolitical goal in Ukraine is to create a buffer zone between itself and NATO. Dragging NATO into the conflict would directly undermine that and make the entire thing pointless. There’s a good reason to be skeptical that it was an attack. I’m sure somebody will relentlessly pick this comment apart and make some Twitter-esque zinger about how Putin is a big dumb dumb but you get my point.
I mean if you look into what the Ukrainian government was like before the war, they are absolutely the type to cynically use something like this to try and drag any potential ally into their war with Russia. As recently as 2021, Ukraine was the second most corrupt country in Europe, only behind Russia.
Russia could be way worst, but that doesn't make Ukraine totally saint, this war isn't going to suddenly eliminate all corruption Ukraine had in the past.
We all know Russia is both, there is no doubt, but even if Russia has lied more doesn't mean Ukraine hasn't lie either. Its true, that theory is the less likely, I agree but possible nontheless. I'm not stating that Ukraine did it, but until there is proof that they didn't then its a possibility.
Also that quote you said is totally false. It's like saying a Rapist is most trustworthy than a Murderer just because killing is worse.
No, I'm not talking about rapists or murderers... actually I am, russia is both, but the main reason they are not trustworthy is that they have already lied a ton. This whole war is built on various russian lies, like the Budapest memorandum or the "military exercises" at the start of the year. The theory of Ukraine doing it is by far the least likely.
If you look at a map, Belarus stands out like a sore thumb as an obvious possibility. Poland says it was definitely Russian-made, and Russia has previously fired similar missiles dangerously close to Poland from staging areas in Belarus.
It could also have been fired by invading Russian forces inside Ukraine, but we'll have to wait for a full investigation.
I \think\ we are talking about the possibility of Russian missiles fired by the Russian military stationed in Belarus hitting Poland. This doesn't necessarily change anything, but it does add an extra layer of complexity.