The short answer is that it is basically nonsense, but to fully untangle why that is takes some doing. There’s a lot of pre-existing assumptions wrapped up in this myth and fully addressing all of them is somewhat beyond me. I’m going to start with the area I’m most comfortable with, the technology, and then I’ll try and explain some of the more complicated socio-political aspects of it later, but just bear in mind that being a historian of medieval nobility is a specialty in and of itself so to fully explain those aspects would require the recruitment of at least one more historian into this answer.
Let’s take England as an example. To oversimplify a very complicated topic, over the course of the Later Middle Ages, the armies of England had a decreasingly reliance on the nobility to do the actual fighting. While nobles still participated and brought retinues of soldiers with them, there’s a remarkable difference between the armies of Edward I and those of Edward III. However, the way this was achieved was not by the monarchy unilaterally excluding the nobility by the magical powers of the longbow or something. The English crown was able to agree with Parliament for a more robust taxation system, effectively the English crown gave up some of its power by letting Parliament have a say in how it taxed but at the same time it got better compliance with royal taxation. This meant the crown was better able to tap into the wealth of their kingdom and then spend that wealth hiring armies of higher quality soldiers to go off and fight their wars with. Throughout the Hundred Years War, the English crown was able to put comparably sized armies into the field against the much larger and technically wealthier Kingdom of France because the French kings were not able to access their wealth as readily (until the end of the war, which was one of the factors that turned things against the English in the end). This didn’t rend the English nobility powerless; it didn’t even prevent the kingdom from falling into civil war with the War of the Roses in the late-fifteenth century.
In many cases though these monarchies emerged only out of bitter conflict with the nobility [thinking of the Fronde in France, the Hohenzollerns early efforts against the Quitzows etc]; presumably this fighting would be unnecessary unless the nobility did stand to lose power. To what extent gunpowder technology [more artillery than small arms imo] played a role in settling these conflicts is of course another question still, but it does seem reasonable to identify a decline in noble power. If nothing else, it seems far fewer e.g. counts and dukes of the Early Modern period were able to enact independent foreign policy than in the Middle Ages.