Anyways though, to focus on Russia, the United States imported 4,468,582 tons of food according to official tallies. Much of that was simply grain and flour, but a great deal as well was prepared or preserved items, including that iconic slab of processed pork in a can. The principal recipients of these types of items, especially at the start, were the soldiers, as SPAM and its ilk were perfectly suited for rations at the front. Civilians too were provided with it, although at a much smaller quantity via official channels beginning in 1943. Some even ended up in the Gulags, where Varlam Shalamov fondly recalled the “chubby tins of SPAM” and “magical jars of sausage” that they had received, no doubt an incredibly welcome respite.
Looking more broadly, while it is an exaggeration to say SPAM won the war, one can at least jokingly make the argument. When Khruschev wrote in his memoirs that ”Despite the many humorous comments about Spam, we still ate it. It would have been very hard to feed our army without it” singling out SPAM specifically might be a bit much, but it is quite true that the Soviets would have been simply unable to feed their military and their people without the massive amounts of food aid from the US, and to a lesser extent the United Kingdom. Nearly on the brink of starvation, the foreign aid roughly equaled the entire food needs of the Red Army through the war, not only allowing most civilians to at least receive the necessary minimums by 1943, but additionally freeing up potentially hundreds of thousands of unavailable hands from the necessity of farming and provisioning.
For the most part, the impact of these products was fleeting. Although SPAM does have something of a nostalgic quality for some Russians, it is certainly one spaced out by time. It was never a particularly popular meal during the war, just much preferable to most alternatives. At best, it was mostly an interesting novelty of “American food”, and of course with the rise of the Cold War, no longer being shipped over in bulk, but that doesn’t mean it left no mark.
But I can talk a bit towards how another American processed meat was refined for Soviet tastes, although this is a story from the 1930s instead of World War II.