You have a whole bunch of people whipped into perpetual fear over things they need not be afraid of and then you mix in some guns and a cause for them to embrace. Make sure to redirect that anger toward a specific target.
The anger needs to be pointed at our legislature. We have the means to make this country a great one, and that alone would reduce crime by an insane amount. All types. Giving everyone a path through education to a good affordable healthy life. But instead things get worse every year and we try to play surprised when everyone starts cracking. We’re cornered and caged animals and now they want to declaw us because a super minority is being brainwashed by the elite to lash out at their own kind instead of the people who really matter.
Media is blowing this up because they think in the age of Trump, BLM, corrupt Supreme Court, abolition of abortion rights, among other things etc is the perfect time to disarm a populace that already isn’t protected by their local police departments or senators on a national level.
It’s funny because as you were talking about perpetual fear I thought you were going to talk about the hysteria surrounding guns themselves.
Even crazier is the thought that people believe (as is evident from the responses throughout this post) most of the suspects in mass shootings are some right-wing gun nut that is reacting violently on perpetual fear.
Yes, there are, without a doubt, some right-wing extremists out there that would do harm and should be held accountable for any violence they commit but most mass shootings or majority of homicides by firearms aren't some masterplan by extremists or supremacists.
I may disagree with it, but I'd much more respect someone having the convictions to say "I like having guns and I don't care about the consequences," than someone trying to BS me with poorly thought out excuses why mass shootings must keep happening.
I've mostly subscribed to the idea that "Just because a precedence was set doesn't mean it can't be revisited down the road." But that's a good point that we've only abided by the interpretation for a fraction of this country's lifetime, and under dubious circumstances.