There’s a lot going on here, plus OP mentions “Now that we live in a rural state”, meaning the DUI is from another state?
You mentioned in your other comment "now that we live in a rural state ..." and that makes it unclear. Is this an interstate issue where she received the DUI in WA but you guys are trying to get her license in a new state? Or vice versa? Because if it's an interstate issue then that can cause some problems, and the DOL has an appeal sort of process for punitive actions for DUI restrictions and the like.
I’m not familiar with the WA specifics but in other states the penalties for a DUI include the criminal portion (arrested, court fines, probation etc.) and then the administrative/DMV portion which involves the driver’s license. They are separate. Court vs. DMV. The DMV has its own system for suspending and reinstating a license after a DUI, meaning she could have done everything she needed to wrt to the criminal case but didn’t fulfill the administrative requirements for getting her license reinstated.
A meeting with a DUI attorney might be informative since their clients often go through the criminal and administrative stuff at the same time, but since this isn’t a criminal court thing they may not be able to do much.
Yes yes yes. This exactly. This is what I was also trying to explain elsewhere in the thread...a PO won’t HAVE any info about this because the criminal courts and the corrections system do not handle driver’s licenses. The Dept of Licensing is a completely separate entity that 1) determines who is eligible for a license and 2) how to go about getting one.
I’m in a different state but the way it was explained to me was newerish laws or DMV regulations now require a special interlock license. So it will say on the license that the person can only drive a vehicle with a interlock installed and if you get caught driving a vehicle without one they basically treat it like a automatic DUI. Once a month you’ll need to take the car to a shop to have the interlock calibrated and the data offloaded. Once you complete the X number of months of having the interlock then you can get a normal license with no restrictions. So I don’t think she’d have to park the car and not use it, it should be fine to use with the interlock license.
If you get an interlock on your car, she seriously won’t be allowed to apply for an interlock-restricted license and drive it?
I'm not a lawyer but sort of familiar with how it works in WA, and getting a license reinstated contingent on having the interlock device is normal, NOT driving with the vehicle and interlock makes no sense and I've never heard of that.
Yes but to become a licensed driver she first needs to get the interlock license, the interlock license would be valid for a vehicle with interlock installed. It just restricts her to only a interlocked car. So in my state after a dui, licensed driver or not licensed, is suspended from any and all driving for X amount of time (depends on the state and also if it’s first,second, third, etc dui) from this date to this date. Then you’re restricted with interlock for X time (1 yr starting and again that’s this date to that date) and you can only drive to your school, your work, and your court related places, nothing else. No dropping your kids at their school, no grocery shopping, etc. Very restricted. But those are set dates from the dui so say Jan 1st 2000- Jan 1st 2001, so you can not drive during that timeframe and avoid the restricted location driving, but to regain your full license you will need to complete a certain amount of time with a interlock license, which should be perfectly acceptable with the interlocked car.