The groups who became the Spaniards' allies switched sides when the Spaniards did not abide by the Mesoamerican rules of war. The conquistadors did not retreat when they were defeated, they did stop their wars at the beginning of farming season, or they did not follow the rules of not perpetrating violence on women and children. The leaders cut their losses by switching sides and agreeing to take their new allies onward toward their next enemy. In doing so, they also usually extracted some sort of conciliatory show of alliance formation (as was expected by diplomatic exchanges in Mesoamerica), like a tribute exchange or attack on another enemy town. These actions were not surrenders; the indigenous armies could have kept fighting, but rather they chose other normal diplomatic and military strategies used throughout Mesoamerica. During battles, Cortés was not coordinating much of anything. He hardly had control of the Spanish captains, let alone the tens of thousands of indigenous soldiers around them doing most of the fighting. Conquistadors complained that the Mesoamerican soldiers did not follow their orders. Why would they? They didn't speak their language, didn't fight wars in the same way, and local soldiers had different objectives in mind than did the Spaniards.
However, by 1524, the King of Spain may have claimed indigenous people as his subjects, but such a relationship can hardly be found on the ground. The value of this article in my mind is that it demonstrated the complex, multilayered reactions to the coalescing political order in Central Mexico.
But yeah, framing Cortez's actions as something in reality instigated by factions in the Tlaxcalan senate which was then re-framed when convenient by Cortez as his totally personal and brilliant intelligence-gathering strategy does make more sense in the context of the war, thanks for the answer, its a take worth considering.
I can see a lot of sense in this argument, but doesnt it outright clash with certain actions Cortez took to take control of the war or at least direct it?, such as the outright torture and murder of the Tlaxcalan leader Xicotencatl and the subsequent coup that he lead to the Tlaxcalan senate? this is after all what prevents an alliance between the Tlaxcaltecans and the Mexica (the same offer they extended to the Tarascans) which Xicotencatl had accepted after he saw how Cortez behaved himself in war.