This is interesting because as I recall, quite a few commanders were basically prosecuted for along these lines at the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, especially in cases like the Siege of Dubrovnik. Essentially that insufficient precautions were taken when conducting artillery barrages on targets in urban areas.
I think it's a helpful reference to link to a transcript of (I think?) Chomsky's talk in 1990 where he discusses this, available .
This is Chomsky's point too, isn't it? He's not calling for US presidents to be charged with war crimes, he's making a rhetorical point. The US government and media frequently accuse the US's geopolitical rivals of "war crimes" or other violations of international law and often those charges of war crimes are used to justify military actions, sanctions or economics actions, or other harsh policy decisions. International law is rarely applied or adhered to in this situations and very few people actual care about what the law does or doesn't say, it's only used for rhetorical purposes. And with this same rhetorical use of international laws or the concept of war crimes, the US is often just as guilty of war crimes and breaches of international law.
Johnson (Vietnam): Yeah, there were several war crimes here, along with complementary violations of IHL. This is well-assessed in law and history literature, but the most prominent examples I can think of are massacres and the use of agent orange, along with indiscriminate bombing. But, and this is a big but, command responsibility likely wouldn’t render Johnson responsible for all of these acts. I think an argument can be made for some, particularly decisions at the strategic level like bombing campaigns/agent orange, but a full answer would require a really nuanced awareness of, among other things, war crimes trial policy in the US at the time, as well as executive-level awareness and tolerance of criminal conduct.
So, if we wanted to apply command responsibility to former Presidents, and to see that they were responsible for war crimes, crimes against peace, and crimes against humanity (to use the division laid out in the Principles), we’d need to know the following points at a minimum:
If you applied the very specific approach of assuming the Nuremberg principles are, in themselves, an independently operational legal instrument, you could make a sound argument for around 4-5 presidents violating them. Some would be very much iffy. Not all crimes committed would be war crimes.