RIght now the estate - all of you - owns the house. You and your siblings, minus your sister, go to court with the lawyer, and start proceeds to get get a market appraisal done. (As it is, she should be paying rent into the estate - that may or may not be brought up at court).
If she refuses; then the probabate court - with whoever the exec, of the will is - will be able to evict her when the sale happens, and the split is done among all siblings.
Your sister will then have then option tobuy it from the estate at that value; and you and your siblings get your share; she becomes the sole owner.
And all this is predicated on the fact that all 4 of your are the legal owners and there's not more to the division of assets from your fathers estate.
Saying he gets a split of the property means he has ownership, there's really no other way to do it if that wish is to be executed. And what if the sister lives there for free her whole life and gives it to her daughter to live in?
You'll need a lawyer, but basically, unless you're prepared to let this go, I would suggest approaching your sister and telling her it's in her interest to have the house appraised (or maybe you do that so the appraised value isn't low-balled) and take out a loan to buy you and your brother out. If she doesn't, you and your brother can force a partition sale which would basically force her to sell the house to pay out your share. Partition sales cost money in lawyers and often the house doesn't sell for full value, so going the appraisal and buyout is better for everyone.
And he said the will says "if the house is sold, the profits are split" it doesn't even say the house itself is willed to all of them.
Well, calling her an asshole is purely opinion as no one here knows a single circumstance of what this family's history is...but besides that, I read it as if the property is sold, profits are split. Otherwise it's a whole house that was willed to nobody. Someone HAD mentioned rent going into the estate, and that seems like it'd have a better leg to stand on?