As far as wikipedia goes: a wiki page can be the beginning point for research. You can definitely use their sources as the start for your own research - but it should never be the end. Always dig a little deeper, if for no other reason than to confirm whether or not the sources on the page actually say what the page claims.
A lot of the comments that are removed are either comments that don't meet our standards for whatever reason - this can include simply being too short, too general, or having too much speculation; it can also include answers which are partially or wholly wrong, use poor sources (like wikipedia or pop history books, podcasts, and youtube documentaries that are meant for a general audience), or include links to sites that contain or cater to hate speech or Holocaust denialism.
It is, unfortunately, the case that sometimes we remove a comment which happens to have the right answer but doesn't meet our other standards as far as being comprehensive or the poster not having the expertise to answer follow-up questions - but the whole point of the subreddit is that the folks who answer questions should be informed enough that they are able to communicate their knowledge effectively.
Unfortunately, with the really popular questions, we tend to get a lot of non-subscribers on the subreddit who aren't familiar with the rules - and that's when we tend to get a rush of low-quality comments. We remove these, but they still show up in the total for the post, which is when you get the "comment graveyard" effect of dozens or hundreds of comments but none of them to read. This is especially the case with popular questions which take a day or two to answer.
AskHistorians is a relatively heavily-moderated subreddit. Unlike general subs like r/AskReddit, we , from folks who know their subject matter and can answer follow-up questions.
Answers in the subreddit are expected to be in-depth and comprehensive, as laid out in the . There is no hard and fast definition of that, but in evaluating what a potential respondent knows on the topic, and what they are planning to post, we ask them to consider whether the answer will demonstrate these four qualities to a reader: