It is interesting to note here that a lot of supposedly great Greek ideas don't actually have a "father" (let alone a mother). We don't know who really invented tragedy, or democracy, or Pythagoras' theorem (which is many centuries older than Pythagoras, as Near Eastern sources clearly demonstrate). In case where we have a clearer idea, like historical writing or rhetoric, it is clear that there was no single brilliant invention but rather an incremental development and steady cross-fertilisation of a number of different ideas of which the origins are beyond recovery. Yes, many of these things developed in the Greek world, often some time between 600 and 300 BC - but they weren't the miraculous inventions of a single genius. Rather they are the product of an interconnected world in which many new ideas were finding a place and an audience. Similar things were going on elsewhere at the time - especially in the East - and many scholars have studied their influence on Greek thought. To a large extent the fact that it is Greek ideas that persist to our time (and not, say, Phoenician or Babylonian) has more to do with accidents of survival and accessibility than it does with a uniquely productive intellectual culture.
Could it be that there is relatively comparable artistic and intellectual development going on among the contemporaries of Athens, Ancient Greeks/Hellenic world in general, say the Phoenicians for example, but were not just given much focus and interest due to a self-serving narrative? (Eurocentric/Western-centric view?).
Sure. I was speaking loosely and so fell into inaccuracy. It wouldn't even be possible to find that it would be unlike any other preserved literature, since no one human being can possibly read all preserved literature in one lifetime (let alone read it with care). Heck, one can't even read all preserved literature in one's own primary language (or few primary languages).
Said otherwise, Thucydides admits here that the speeches in his book are what he believes "ought to have been said," not what was actually said. He does qualify this by saying he stuck "as closely as possible to the whole thought of what was truly said," but this statement is quite ambiguous: "the whole thought of what was truly said" is not the same as "what was truly said." In any event, no historians today would attempt such a thing: if reporting speeches, they would try to report only what was actually said. Because of this, some blame Thucydides for being a bad historian; however, it may be the case that he did not desire to be a historian, at least how we understand historians today.
They eventually ask Cladius (who has ambitions to be a simple historian) which model for writing history is better. At first Claudius says he would aim to imitate Pollio. After further discussion, Claudius comes to this conclusion:
Sometime before becoming emperor (and when it was assumed he never would) Claudius is having a discussion with Livy and Pollio, who have opposing views on the matter. A very abridged summary of the discussion is below: