Yeah, that was the original plan. To get the cops to escort me to get my daughter but when I called them to ask if they would be able to do that, they told me they couldn’t because it was a civil matter so they can’t get involved & there’s nothing they can really do without a custody order in place. I tried calling the family court here in my county but I couldn’t speak to an actual person. This stuff is just so stressful. My brain hurts lol.
All my friends have told me to just kidnap her bc he will not allow me to take her out of his house but she’s been with him for a month and a half. I’m barely making it on my own & he has his whole family lol. I’m scared to just leave with her because I don’t actually know if he actually was granted temporary custody. But if he does, does he even have the right to deny me to be able to keep her overnight?
Yeah I called them & they said they’d call me back in 2-6 weeks . I googled low income family lawyers & basically just called down the list but all of them are charging at least $100 for a consult. I believe the paperwork was put in to go to court since he was trying to put me on child support & I disagreed saying I wanted full custody. He wanted to do joint custody and he wanted to be the custodial parent but even so- I should be allowed at least weekends with her. Thank you for your comment!
Thank you for your comment. I’ve been starting to feel like it would be almost impossible but y’all’s advice has really helped reassure me. I’ll definitely be speaking with a lawyer and will take it from there!
You need an attorney. If you can't afford one right now, call your local Bar association or a legal aid office and ask for a referral to a free or low-cost attorney right away. Your ex does NOT get to dictate when and how you see your child. You need to file for custody as soon as possible to protect your rights. NAL, but a Mom who has been through legal custody stuff with my own kid.
I am not a lawyer, however I’m a mother. In my state that consent would be no different than if you let your daughter go stay with a distant relative, let’s say a cousin. Your cousin has no parental rights, just like your child’s father does. You and your cousin agree that daughter will visit for a week and then you’ll pick her up. However then your cousin decides that she’s keeping her indefinitely and she’ll allow you visitation. She doesn’t have the right to do that. You can literally go pick her up anytime. HOWEVER, the longer your child stays there it sets a precedence which will bite you in the behind in court.