31 March, Indira Gandhi issues a resolution in Parliament denouncing the violence in East Pakistan, proclaiming India's sympathy towards its people, and urges the world to take action against the systematic genocide.
Indira Gandhi had indeed visited the US during the Johnson administration in March 1966, and the President promised three million tons of food and $9 million in aid. During the return trip, she visited both the Soviet Union and Great Britain. In July of the same year, she issued a statement deploring the US bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong, leading to President Johnson deliberately delaying food shipments to India. Even as Nixon was courting Pakistan and China, Indira had signed the peace treaty with the Soviets assuring each other of non-aggression, as the timeline above shows.
Something else you forgot to mention in your timeline is that 3 weeks before India signed the treaty with the USSR, Nixon in his televised address to the nation on July 15, announced the re-opening of relations with China. India interpreted this to mean that the US was now committed on the side of its two enemies - Pakistan and China, both of which had fought wars with India in the past. So the Indo-USSR treaty was the direct consequence, it was India's way to take out an "insurance policy" against the US-Pakistan-China axis they saw allied against them.
For Nixon, India went from a potential ally, to a regional power unofficially allied to the USSR. In his head, this was all Gandhi's doing. She had showed him little respect, lied to his face, destroyed a politician he was friendly with, and outplayed him with the use of Soviet military aide. What's more, in the western press, Gandhi was hailed as a hero. She had liberated the oppressed Bangladeshis, and could have pushed the war further to potentially take back lost territory in Kashmir; maybe even pushed into Western Pakistan as well, but didn't. For Nixon, a man who hated everyone, and trusted no one, this essentially solidified his utter hatred of Gandhi.
It's important to note that Nixon hated just about everyone. He felt Jews were born spies. His drug laws were created because he saw Black people smoking weed on TV. As to India, Indira Ganghi seemed to be one of those people who just didn't feel the need to really bend the knee to Nixon. To be impartial about the matter, it does seem like she didn't really have a high opinion about the man either. When Nixon was on his road back to power in 1967, he apparently had a meeting with her. She seemed bored and frankly disinterested in what he was saying. She asked an aide in Hindi how much longer this meeting would take. Nixon got the general hint even though he didn't know what she was saying.^1 When he became president, he had a much warmer relationship with the Pakistani leader, Yahya Khan. This became a more relevant issue to Gandhi as India and Pakistan were headed towards war. Gandhi was carrying on the policy of nonalignment. She didn't want India falling into either the US or Soviet Union's sphere of influence. Despite this, Nixon noticed that India was becoming uncomfortably close to the Soviet Union.
Now remember when I said Nixon felt that India was getting uncomfortably close to the Soviet Union? What Nixon (and Kissinger) didn't know was just how close they had become. Gandhi left her meeting with Nixon assured that India can't launch a war against an enemy that literally surrounds them. Pakistan was a potential existential threat, and the US told them it didn't matter. Nixon wanted a mortal foe to remain in one piece and continuing to surround India. She talked to Brezhnev who assured her that he would support India's war effort.^3 India went to war, and pretty much wiped the floor with Pakistan. When it became clear that India was on the verge of total victory, Nixon ordered the USS Nimitz into the Bay of Bengal as a warning to India. It was his hope that this would scare India enough to pull back and not take all of East Pakistan. India notified the USSR about this turn of events and asked if they still had their support. The USSR assured them that they did, and responded by sending nuclear armed submarines to the region.^4.