The third metric is the only one that matters, and in this case, specifically the recoverable resources in Norway's part of the Arctic.
McGlade and Ekins (2015) was unequivocal on Arctic exploitation: there is no scenario in which Arctic reserves are extracted where we stay under +2C. It's not physically possible without an accompanying (effectively unphysical) mass removal of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. And if you had the energy to do that, you wouldn't need those fossil fuels.
We need to be able to generate power in a sustainable way and for this nuclear is good. Accidents have happened, but those were older reactors. Safety has come a long way since.
Nuclear is perfect as a stepping stone towards fusion, thorium, or whatever other power generation they may come up with in the future.
Saying that if one of the supposed breakthrough technologies in thorium reactors works or some of the ideas of small form factor nuclear becomes real maybe we could talk about nuclear again, but right now nuclear as it is is a waste of money and too dirty, money that could be spent installing solar panels.
Forget wind and nuclear and other expensive initiatives that fill a small gap in the energy market, solar will mean the end of oil and gas for electricity generation, and only be used for other things and even then those can be developed from plants eventually.
Solar has been shown to be more than capable of replacing oil and gas powered energy plants very quickly no doubts no arguments can ignore the many examples where solar on home roofs alone have enabled countries to generate more energy than they use time and again.
Oil is not necessary in any way it is just the will of the people to force government to install solar that is lacking due to propaganda saying it is not good enough or too expensive, yes the energy created from solar on every roof would give more electricity than all oil and gas power plants combined.
As soon as we all accept solar as the only way forward the sooner government can be pressured into supporting fast adoption of solar panels on every roof around the world.
Solar is the future i just wish government acknowledge this more and started paying for every roof to have them. 10 years and we would have achieved a goal of every roof having solar, that is not a long time and i am sure that by then panels would be much more effective and cheaper and battery backup affordable for government to install in every home. Businesses could use the massive profits they are seeing now to install at there own cost.