I think something may have been lost in translation here. Meal scenes are one of the most frequent set pieces in the Homeric epics, often described in loving detail from the slaughtering of animals to the cooking of their meat to the award of a portion of the food to each person present. These are communal and highly ritualised events that form an important activity for both male and female characters in both poems. They are, unquestionably, meals as a thing that people set aside time to do together, during which they would not be doing anything else.
Were these meals egalitarian, with everyone eating the same things together, or was there a hierarchy, like who gets to get the first bite or the best cut of meat, etc.
Meals within a certain group, like the women of a household or the crew of a ship, seem to have been fairly egalitarian. But if a meal was hosted by some lord, of course, Homeric hierarchies would kick in. Every meal in which the host or the sacrificing party was in a position to allot portions would see the same dynamics as the social processes of gift exchange and the division of war loot - reinforcing kinship ties, acknowledging guest friends, and rewarding service and honourable deeds.
My best guess as to what Jubber meant by the claim that the epics predate "the invention of mealtimes" is that characters in Homer seem to organise their meals pretty much whenever it suits them. They did not follow our customary pattern of having 3 meals at more or less fixed times throughout the day. Homeric Greeks seem to follow the general Ancient Greek habit of eating one meal per day (and not eating anything for the rest of the day); but this meal sometimes happens shortly after dawn, sometimes in the middle of the day, and sometimes in the evening. In other words, there does not seem to be a particular time at which they expected to have a meal. There was no distinction between what we might call breakfast, lunch, dinner or supper. It was clearly taken for granted that people would not be picky about when they ate, since it was never certain at which time they would have their one meal on a given day.