I disagree pretty wholeheartedly on the religious freedom that you contest. Omitting relations with Judaea and Cyrus rule in general, xerxes is often mislabelled as a bigot because of the Daiva inscription, when there is evidence for the promotion of foreign religions in his empire (donating to temples in Egypt and taking pharaonic titles after their revolt). The daiva inscription only provides circumstantial evidence for religious bigotry as well, depending on whether daiva means the same thing as daeva, as written to the Avesta, but in any case, it likely refers to the putting down of a revolt.
The I tolerance of the assyrians doesn’t bear relevance since you’re referencing events that took place before xerxes rule and I’m specifically looking at his policies since he was ruler during the Greek wars. Athens was, furthermore, burned in reparation for the Greeks burning of the temple of Cybebe at Sardis and is therefore an example of the achaemenids protecting the religious freedom of their vassal states and provinces, quite the opposite to the cultic impairment you suggest.
If you mean to reference xerxes supposed burning of the cult statue of bel Marduk and supposed cultic impairment of Babylon during their revolt, their is simply no tenable evidence to support this other than the writings of select few, obviously biased, Greek sources and herodotus even says that when he visited Babylon, the cult statue and esagila were still in place. Again the references to intolerance from before the time of the achaemenids doesn’t bear relevance to my initial inquiry so I don’t really understand why you brought up Assyrian and Babylonian dominion.
The notion of "religious freedom" is misplaced here and is based on an unfortunate conflation of certain declarations in the obscure language of the Cyrus Cylinder (related to Cyrus' symbolic restoration of Babylon) and the particular experience of the Judaean population. During Assyrian and Babylonian dominion, the population of Judaea was subject to population transfer and various other means of imperial control. While often very brutal, it's important to understand that this is a standard method of imperial management from the earliest territorial empires into the modern era. With ancient population sizes, it was especially viable to take a large portion of a "troublesome" population and simply force them to move somewhere else, where they would be less able to stir up trouble.
It is correct that our limited sources from Persepolis and thereabout do suggest that women could hold positions of significant status at least in Persia proper - the one that always comes to my mind is heading large labour teams. It is however not true that slavery was banned (this is a persistent myth of unclear origin) - while the empire at large was certainly not a "slave economy" the way Greece was, and wage labour appears to have been the norm, there is ample documentation of the trade of slaves and the use of forced labour in many parts of the empire and a long tradition of large-scale slavery in Mesopotamia (which, though, had also declined during the Assyrian and Babylonian Empires, immediate predecessors to the Achaemenids).
This, as well as the destruction of religious buildings and idols, is a method that the Achaemenids used as well as their predecessors, known for example from the XPh inscription and Xerxes' sacking of Athens. What the Biblical attestations really reflect is not some highly anachronistic policy of religious freedom (the popularity of the idea that it did might be to some extent the result of modern nationalist mythmaking), but rather simply a _friendlier relationship with the Judaean elites_. The Achaemenids (apparently going back to Cyrus who, technically, was not an Achaemenid, that line begins only with Dareios) appear to have struck up a friendly relationship with the Judaean priesthood, taking sides in a power struggle with the Davidic line of kings.