Lithuania is similarly if not more complex. It was briefly a kingdom, after Mindaugas was crowned King 1253. Prior to that he had been a Grand Duke, but after agreeing to convert to Christianity, the Pope agreed to recognise him as King of the Kingdom of Lithuania (don't forget it was also the Pope who crowned Charlemagne the first Holey Roman Emperor). The situation in Lithuania at this time was complex, as it was still largely pagan, and there was a lot of fighting and struggles for power, in which the Teutonic Order (Livonian Order) were involved in. It seems Midaugas was only a Christian for strategic purposes, and may have reverted back to paganism. Either way, most of Lithuania and its nobility remained pagan, and Midaugas was assassinated, and Lithuania fell into internal strife and was ruled by pagans who were recognised only as Grand Dukes, not Kings (at least in the eyes of the rulers of Christian Europe).
Therefore, in summary and with my interpretation: Lithuania's pagan status meant in was not recognised by Christian Europe as a true Kingdom, and Lithuania's lateness in joining Christian Europe meant that by the time in joined their ranks there were already many established Christian kingdoms around, who were unlikely to desire a new competitor for prestige. Coupling this with its union to the already well established kingdom of Poland meant that the Grand Dukedom remained a lesser title which the king of Poland possessed.
Lithuania was Christianised in 1387, under the reign of Jogaila . I can't find anything that comes right out and says it, but in my opinion, crucially for the status of Lithuania, while Jogaila was already Grand Duke of Lithuania as a pagan, he became Christian as part of his marriage to Jagwiga, Queen of Poland (which was already a well established Catholic Kingdom), and so became Christian King of Poland and Grand Duke of Lithuania. This started off the Poland-Lithuania Union, with Poland remaining a Kingdom and Lithuania a Grand Duchy, even though Lithuania was now Christian. When Jogaila became King of Poland he left a regent to rule Lithuania as Grand Duke, and there was a lot of power struggling and fighting between families to be the Grand Dukes. The King of Poland and Grand Duke of Lithuania didn't resume being the same person till Casimir IV became King of Poland in 1447. This meant that Lithuania was sort of the junior partner in this relationship going forward (a little like the ruler of Austro-Hungary being Emperor of Austria and King of Hungary).
I would not say it is inaccurate so much as semantics are at play (and also multiple languages). My two main points would be: what Empire meant to a 20th century person was not the same as what it meant to a late-medieval person, and secondly Empire can sort of mean two things: a state which at its core is run as an empire with a autocratic ruler recognised by other states as an Emperor, and a state which possess an empire (owns territory beyond its nominal core borders, has vassals or tribute peoples etc.).
This is correct. Juozas Gabrys was a Lithuanian nationalist who created a number of thinktanks and other organizations (in this case, "Le Bureau D'Informations Lithuanien") based in Paris and later Lausanne which had the sole purpose of advocating for an independent Lithuanian state. At the time, Lithuania was ruled mostly by the Russian Empire with some areas ruled by the German Empire, while historically having a significant Polish influence as well. Lithuanian nationalists rejected all of these outsiders and sought to give legitimacy for their cause in whatever manner they could. A tried and true method of doing so is of course to claim as much land as possible under questionable circumstances to make one's national claim seem legitimate. "Greater" <insert country here> was a popular revanchist concept in the early 1900s, and Lithuania was no exception to this thought. Of course, one would suspect that some of the areas claimed under these maps may be less than thrilled lying under Lithuanian sovereignty, but that thought process seems to be relatively scarce in the face of fervent nationalism.