Just study the invoice terms in an accounting book or have a conference with someone in another company's accounts payable department (where invoices are processed and paid) or go online and there will be many websites that explain the basic concepts about the terms for paying accounts payable invoices to you.
Most suppliers want to be paid ASAP and you should discuss with your management if that is the way that they prefer for your company to do business--if they have the funds on hand to pay the bill, do they want to pay it immediately or not? The supplier's terms for payment are listed on the invoice: for example, the net amount due within 30 days or 60 days or 90 days.
Almost always dictated by the contract between the vendor and the company, but typically you see what is called net 60, net 30, or net 90 day terms. That means the invoice should be issued (not necessarily that the vendor has received payment) within the specified time period. As an individual who doesn't own the company, there is effectively no chance you are directly responsible, but the company could be sued for lack of payment if the terms of the contract aren't upheld.
It isn't likely that the law dictates a time frame, it'll come down to the contract, and if the contract doesn't specify then the supplier's recourse is to sue whoever actually owes them money, which doesn't sound like its you. This advice assumes you're in the US.
You use we/us/me somewhat interchangeably in this post. have you ever signed a personal guarantee with a supplier? If you've never agreed to be personally liable for any debts of the company, you have no stake in this. Did the vendor threaten to sue you personally, or the company?
In practical terms, if you have a contract stating terms, the only remedy if someone fails to pay is to file a lawsuit. Without a contract or at least some clear terms written on the invoice (as is most common) there's nothing to do until they demand payment, at which point your company is on notice, and they could begin a long slow legal process. Most companies will just begin to levy some fine or interest on past-due accounts.
As a member of a start up are you a shareholder of the company or an employee? If you're a shareholder you might have an actual interest in this, as the financials of a business rightly SHOULD be your concern.