You should consult an attorney on the quickest way to handle this. The executor of your father's estate can evict him and probably use an accelerated method if your state allows for expedited evictions due to illegal activity.
The other commenter is correct that you performed a self-help eviction which is illegal, but I can't exactly blame you for doing what you did.
This person was likely a tenant, and without a restraining order that bars him from the property, you've probably committed a "self-help" eviction. That's illegal. It was also illegal for you to throw his belongings away.
There is a shift in attitudes about bail these days. Bail amounts are being lowered to make sure the accused can be available to their attorney to be able to help with their defense, among other reasons.
I can understand bail being lowered to help smaller crime defendants some breathing room. I was just more amazed murder charges allow bail. That’s about as serious a charge as you can have, barring some others. I’m sorry if this is off topic I just wanted to know if I was the only one that found that weird.
Murdering your landlord (your dad) is certainly grounds for an eviction, lease or not. The other reply is correct in that he is a tenant, and unfortunately has rights under your state tenancy laws. You need to follow the proper steps to get him evicted and get a protection order if you fear he’ll hurt your family or worse. Until he’s convicted, and he is out on bail, he has a right to his residence. My advice is to move out, take your father’s possessions, DO NOT change the locks, and protect yourself if he really did murder your father while you plead for a protection order. There are also victim advocacy groups to reach out to. My recommendations are to contact a tenancy lawyer about this prickly eviction, and the prosecutor’s office for resources and answers.
Edit: After reading some states bail bond rules apparently bail can be granted for someone facing a charge of murder depending on the degree, but is extremely high. Second degree murder or accessory to first can have bail amounts with lots of zeros, but first degree murder seems to be denied bail, especially if the jurisdiction treats it as a possible capital punishment conviction.