Thanks for the question. Indeed this is the question i have sought to answer in my British and the Sikhs book. Firstly there was a Sikh Empire of Ranjit Singh which lasted until 1845 (at the onset of the First Sikh War). However many Sikh States were partitioned as per the treaty of 1809 where they were neutral or helped the British from that time onwards. So many Sikhs were working with the EIC from many years earlier than is perceived. Even during the Sikh Wars, Sikhs were part of the EIC forces. After the annexation of Panjab in 1849 it became prevalent to have employment and and so specific Sikh regiments were formed including the 14th Kings George's Own Ferozepore Sikhs and the 15th Ludhiana Sikhs amongst others. During the 'Mutiny' Sikhs were employed as part of the EIC forces. The actual employment worked in the sense that if several Sikhs were from a particular village, the British would target those areas and use these Sikhs as examples. This worked wonders for the British and so this continued.
During the British Raj campaigns initially both sides would have seen each other with suspicion especially after the annexation of the Panjab and the Anglo Sikh Wars. However during the earlier campaigns the British feelings were rested as the Sikhs proved themselves time and time again. Some early campaigns included Abyssinia (1867–68), Malta (1878–80),Afghanistan (1878–80) and Burma (1885). I think were treated differently due to these reasons and i would not put this down to lying. However i cannot cite any specifics, the higher ups definitely gave more respect to the Sikhs during the latter nineteenth campaigns. When we get to the battle of Saragarhi in 1897 we see citations of general officers regarding the Sikhs. This continued during World War 1 and 2 and even to tis day in the UK, families whose forefathers fought with the Sikhs have only praise for their bravery and prowess.
Indeed whilst the Brits considered the Anglo Sikh wars a triumph against the Sikhs. The Sikhs have considered the wars a failure of leadership and treachery this is more peculiar to the first War. In my British and the Sikhs book i go into the reasons behind the crossing of the Sutlej and the collusion of Tej Singh, Lal Singh and Gulab Singh with the British.
I read Amarpal Singh Sidhu's book on the First Anglo-Sikh War and the sheer degree of ... betrayal/collaboration with the Brits on the Sikh side was astonishing.
Do we have many first person accounts from Sikh soldiers on their experiences on the Western Front during the First World War? Would this have been the first time that many of them had visited Europe?