The Royal Navy chose to fit armoured flight decks to its carriers after 1936 due to a shift towards the European theatre in British strategic thinking. European waters - the North Sea and the Mediterranean - were more confined than those of the Pacific, and the areas where fighting was expected were closer to enemy air bases. In these waters, it would be impossible to avoid attack by land-based aircraft. Given the low performance of British carrier aircraft, and the RAF's dogma that 'the bomber will always get through' (the RAF was largely responsible for advising the RN on air defence), an emphasis was put on passive protection, through armour and guns, rather than through active protection through fighter patrols. If a carrier was attacked, any fighters on deck were to be struck down into the hangar to clear the field of fire for the ship's guns, and to reduce the risk of dangerous fires on deck. This contrasted with American and Japanese practice, where such fighters would have been scrambled. The armour and guns on British carriers were seen as necessary for operations close to land in European waters. However, they would not allow the carrier to strike land targets without the element of surprise, the cover of night or similar force-multipliers - that could only be effectively be done by high performance aircraft, which the RN did not have.
The problem with this shipping-and-bases bombing policy was that level bombers found it difficult to hit ships at sea, and German naval bases in the west, well-known to be within range of British bombers, had the best air defences available at the time (anti-aircraft guns, fighter bases, and radar). From September through to mid-December 1939, Bomber Command attempted to bomb German naval bases, especially Wilhelmshaven. These raids inflicted very little damage (Admiral Scheer was hit by three bombs, none of which exploded, and Emden was hit by a crashing Blenheim, which caused minor damage), and many suffered losses of over half of the attacking bombers. The British bomber from higher altitudes, trying get above the ceiling of German anti-aircraft fire, but losses were still heavy. Meanwhile, night raids (dropping leaflets) took very few losses, and Bomber Command switched to a policy of night bombing.
British carriers earned their fame for attacks on naval bases against Italy, in the raid on Taranto, 11th November 1940. Three of the 6 Italian battleships were put out of action for some time. Ports in North Africa were attacked, too. Benghazi and Tripoli were raided, and carrier aircraft dropped flares and spotted for a battleship bombardment of Tripoli. British carriers would raid Japanese naval bases later in the war, too.
German naval bases were attacked, from the second day of the war. Not by the Fleet Air Arm initially; aircraft carriers mounted anti-submarine patrols as the war started but the loss of Courageous to a U-boat on September 17th 1939 and submarine and air attacks on Ark Royal in that month demonstrated the dangers of operating around the UK. It was the RAF's Bomber Command that raided Wilhelmshaven.
The British bombed German naval bases many times. The great majority of the attacks were by Bomber Command (i.e., by land-based bombers), but some attacks used aircraft carriers.
Britain entered WWII with shipping and naval bases as the only targets for its bombers. At the start of WWII, President Roosevelt (of the still-neutral USA) asked the combatants to restrain themselves from bombing civilian targets, and Britain, France, and Germany all agreed. British bombers could reach most of Germany from their bases in Britain, but couldn't reach eastern Germany and therefore couldn't direct support Poland in their defence against the German invasion. Unwillingness to violate the neutral airspace of Belgium and the Netherlands effectively removed some targets. Bomber Command initially treated possible collateral damage to civilian targets with great caution, and decided not to bomb any targets with too great a risk of civilian casualties. This left naval bases in western Germany and German military shipping as their targets - shipping could be attacked at sea with no civilian risk, and naval bases could be attacked with minimal chance of hitting civilian areas (provided the bombers flew appropriate bomb runs, where short or long bombs would hit the coast rather than the city). Bomber Command would fly over other targets, but dropping propaganda leaflets rather than bombs. This would continue to the end of the "Phony War", the quiet period between the defeat of Poland and the German attack in the west (the specific trigger for the change of policy was the German bombing of Rotterdam, with about 1,000 civilian deaths (fewer than the 30,000 claimed by contemporary propaganda, but still many)).