This is a grossly misinformed point of view. Premiums are set based upon expected utilization. When utilization (that would include staff salary cost) is higher, the payer needs to either cut benefits (not very popular with patients), increase premiums, and/or cut the amount they pay for benefits. Single payer would go a long way to addressing this situation but primarily by imposing “take or leave” price controls, which would constrain wages at hospitals. Part of the reality is this - sophisticated healthcare is incredibly expensive but the quality of care is incredible compared with even 10 years ago. We don’t blink at spending a billion dollars for military expenses. Healthcare shouldn’t be any different.
And even the complete failure of medicare wouldn’t be the “collapse of the healthcare system”. It would just be the collapse of a payer.
We saw the collapse of our healthcare system during COVID. There is only one solution: Medicare for All. Everyone would have quality healthcare no matter what. It would also cost less.
What that means is they have no incentive to lower costs. Look at the covid vaccine which is going to increase in price astronomically now that for-profit insurance is paying instead of the government.
If everyone on their plans got 50% healthier and used 50% less care or if insurance companies got 50% better prices than total healthcare costs would go down 50% do we agree?
It's basic math. They routinely take close to 20% in admin costs the limit allowed. If all of a sudden the government said hey, everyone has to charge Medicare rates and Canada drug prices, insurance companies would see their 20% cut go down significantly. You can argue their "profit" levels are different but keep in mind admin costs include everything from CEO bonuses to advertising to building new offices. They don't want their 20% cut to go down. And yes if the government started setting prices like most every other country does, their 20% take would absolutely go down.
Conversely if the government started setting prices and costs fell to what other countries are spending their 20% cut would go down.