as also does a willful destruction of government property or endangering it ie. hollywood style "I just steal this airplane/tank etc. and do heroic suicidal shit with it" actually carries a death penalty if you make it back.
Especially this part is troublesome in my opinion, soldiers who put their lives on the line should have the right to question orders that sound suicidal or otherwise idiotic and/or dubious. Blind obedience is exactly the thing that makes the Russian army fair so badly, -they're essentially denied the right to use their own judgement on how to achieve their set goal in the field. And now Ukrainian Generals want to do the same?
Looks like the Ukrainian Army wants to model themselves along Russian guide lines. Do as you're told and don't question orders.
Will it or will it not limit the ability of Ukrainian soldiers and commanders at the point of contact to disregard obviously stupid orders and/or take advantage of opportunities they see?
Other militaries (such as in Russia) would see much of this as disrespectful and historically do not allow much to happen without the direct order being given. So even if something was helpful it could be considered disobeying a direct order or disrespect. So it really depends which system Ukraine's military is more akin to, a modern Western system heavily reliant on NCOs...or more of an old-fashioned do what I say and only what I say to the letter of how I say it.
I understand Ukraine is fighting for it’s survival (look at my post history, I’m very much on their side), but nation states shouldn’t be able to force someone to their death in combat, no matter what is at stake.
If someone doesn’t want to die for their country, and are coerced/drafted into combat, is it fair to force them to fight to the death?
If someone invaded the USA and the very existence of the nation was at stake, I have the right to say fuck it and leave or live under the new management. I didn’t pick to be born here, I don’t owe my life to it.
We don’t decide the country we are born in. People shouldn’t have to give their lives for it if they aren’t comfortable with the decision or circumstances surrounding their possible demise, (like not retreating against overwhelming firepower.).