They aren't leaving for better pay. They're leaving because they can't afford rent. There's a difference. Leaving for better pay is a competitor offered to pay them more. Leaving because they can't afford rent is no different than someone leaving because they can't get to work after they had to sell their car to pay their credit card debt (true story).
"I don't want to pay them enough to not quit because I don't pay enough for them to make rent" is absolutely not a legitimate business need.
That said, I would unquestionably come at you for disparage impact on a protected class, and it's not at all implausible. Minorities and immigrants own homes at rates considerably lower than white Americans, as do single women compared with single men. The scrutiny that applies when someone argues your policy is discriminatory is going to require you articulate a legitimate business need that is forwarded by a policy of only hiring people from a group that is wildly disproportionately balanced against multiple protected classes.
The biggest caveat to this is that if your choice of discriminatory axes _just happens_ to disproportionately affect a protected class - say, you end up not hiring black people and the reason turns out to be that most black applicants in your area rent - then the fact that your reasons are facially legal won't necessarily protect you from a discrimination lawsuit under a disparate impact theory.
More or less. I'd reframe the third point, though: not only do you have to avoid intending to discriminate based on protected classes, but you may also have to avoid _de facto_ discrimination in practice. That line isn't always bright; someone who feels you've crossed over it absolutely can ask the courts to look at their case.
However, "we don't want to hire someone who then leaves" indicates a fundamental disconnect in your understanding. You, personally, are invested in your business, and for you it's a life-engaging project. For your staff, by and large, it's just a paycheque. You should be building a business that is resilient to turnover, because turnover is as inevitable as gravity or taxes. Your staff do not share your sense of personal investment, nor should they - it's not their business, and they get a very thin fraction of its value.