Great answer, thank you very much! I must say I'm pleasantly surprised by how decently they were treated.
Is that because it's outside your field of expertise or just because the question was focused on the USA? If the latter, I would welcome information on Australia, or any other country.
OK, fleshed out a few things in the above, and also can add a bit more about Australia, although I'll be a bit briefer. So as noted, most prisoners were not sent to the USA. Australia took many of them. Their treatment was roughly in line with that in the USA, which is to say Australian camps can be mostly said to be compliant with the requirements of the Geneva Convention, conditions providing the requisite level of comfort, and prisoners sometimes assigned to some sort of work detail, but the Australians only did so occasionally. Likewise the prisoners often dealt with the same cleavages in their number, and internalized shame about their predicament.
Japanese prisoners of war were a rarity during World War II. Several factors play into this, including the reluctance to surrender which manifested itself in suicidal resistance, or simple suicide itself, and the racial animus that characterized the Pacific conflict, aptly referred to as a 'War Without Mercy' by Dower, and did see a considerable reluctance to accept surrender in the field, and many explicit cases of violations of the laws of war in that regard. It was a dark, self-fulfilling cycle in many ways, with Japanese reluctance to surrender only further fueling American disinterest in accepting it, sometimes out of racial hatred, and others as an assumption it was a trick. For many of those who did surrender, it was clear that it was less their commitment to Senjinkun that made them desire to keep fighting, but fear of treatment by the Allies, assuming they would be treated similarly to how the Japanese treated their own prisoners, and American killings only reinforced that more, despite treatment after capture being quite unlike expectation.
One result of these interrogations, and understanding of how Japanese assumptions about their fate were a major impediment to surrender, possibly even greater than actual devotion to duty, were attempts later in the war to improve the likelihood of surrender, both by encouraging American troops to be receptive to the possibility surrenders were genuine and that their reluctance only ensured fighting would last longer, as well leaflet campaigns targeting Japanese soldiers in the field to try and encourage them of good treatment if they surrendered.
Efforts were also made for 're-education' of some of the POWs, with the belief that putting them through special indoctrination courses would mean that after the war, they could be returned home and be a seed for turning Japan into a peaceful, democratic state by “impress[ing] on the minds of the Japanese prisoners of war what the attitude of a citizen of the United States is toward life and government and to create an appreciation of American principles and traditions".
In some cases, POWs who had experienced that treatment (those remaining in theater though, not sent to the USA) were allowed to return to Japanese lines to encourage surrender, and more generally POWs who had proved most amenable after capture were used to help fine-tune such messages by finding flaws in the American logic which wouldn't appeal to the Japanese sensibilities, or else fixing poor phrasing and word choices, such as with the 'Surrender Passes" which were dropped in Japanese held-areas, insisting on changing the wording from "I Surrender" to "I Cease Resistance", which was more acceptable. For many later POWs, they reported that these campaigns had been part of what made them do so, and the efforts generally were seen as effective in fomenting defeatist attitudes within the Japanese ranks.