Somebody at that press conference basically asked Austin, "Why did you stop Poland from giving MiG-29s to Ukraine?".
They didn't, though. Poland wanted the US to let the Ukrainians fly the jets into Ukraine from Ramstein (America's primary base in Europe), and the US basically said, no, if you want to give jets to Ukraine, do it yourself directly. Poland eventually sent the jets to Ukraine disguised as spare parts, but in the public consciousness, the US still got the blame for blocking Poland.
Its not "scapegoating" Poland, its just setting things straight with the tremendous amount of bullshit coming from them. The whole blockade thing was a straight up lie, and honestly, that was just the last in a long line of insults. Poland is a great country, the current polish government is a burning shitshow tho.
That’s how that works and Poland is next in line of Russia breaks through Ukraine. The Russians have already said so. Why wouldn’t Poland want some tanks donated to them after donating everything they can to Ukraine? Seems fair and required less training upfront for Ukraine. Now Poland has time to receive and train on new tanks.
Poland got modern tanks and money in return. Other countries actually donate their stuff. Poland always wants something for it from the EU, Germany, or somebody else.
Poland confuses me. On the one hand, they are undoubtedly one of the most gung-ho nations about sending anything and everything to Ukraine (more because they hate Russia than because they love Ukraine), even acting as the logistical hub for pretty much all military aid going into Ukraine, and on the other hand they pull stuff like they did with the jets, all these strange political games.
It makes far more sense to put the jets on a train from Poland to Ukraine (which is ultimately what they did) than it does to fly the jets from Germany into Ukraine, especially since Russia still has essentially all of Ukraine within theoretical range of their long-range ground-based air defenses.