(1. what happened to the Norse? 2. there were most definitely people in the Americas before the Norse 3. you can refer to this compiled by /u/Mictlantecuhtli if Africa had pre-Columbian contact, short answer is no).
Where the "cocaine mummies" got popularized was a 1996 documentary called Secret of the Cocaine Mummies.
Extremely informative but I’m afraid you didn’t offer an answer for the cocaine question: how did that trace amount end up in that mummy?
It'd be nice to have some sort of comparison with mummies from the Americas, and fortunately, we do: cocaine and nicotine have also been detected in Peruvian mummies.
I see now that when I first looked at the table in I was looking at figures for the Peruvian mummies that we expect to have cocaine in them rather than the Egyptian mummies where this is odd. However, if I am reading it correctly now, they still seem to report concentrations of between "70ng/g and 442 ng/g" in 8 soft tissue samples. My only relevant expertise involves using these kinds of tools to do very different things than quantitative chem, but my understanding is that this should still be more than enough signal for the GC/MS that they were using to reliably detect over noise....leading to the question of whether they identified cocaine as the signal because it is cocaine, or because they were looking for cocaine and found something else that they couldn't distinguish from cocaine.
Given that cocaine also has so many particularly convenient functional groups, and that they were conveniently suspending it in CHCl anyway, it would have also maybe been helpful if they had done some chemistry on the sample to show that the peak either stuck around or didn't like you would expect cocaine to.
So, if we are imagining a failure state that would create an erroneous result, wouldn't it make more sense to hypothesize a similar peak that they confused with the cocaine that they were looking for? This was the 90s, it is a very short report, and it was harder to meaningfully reprint the raw data then anyway - so its not weird that they didn't just show us the peak that they saw.