Right now, the GOP is aiming to destroy the trans community through a combination of fearmongering leading to increased terrorism and legal measures making it increasingly difficult to transition, with the end goal presumably being to ban medical and legal transition entirely. Even if trans people aren't directly killed, they would be forced into the closet and thus out of public view. Those who refuse to comply and attempt to transition through other means would be criminalized and imprisoned.
You can also see this in attempts to eliminate a group's culture. For example, the residential schools in Canada where they sent Indigenous kids after taking them from their parents to basically teach them how to behave like white people would certainly qualify as genocidal, even before you bring up the mass graves. Or the internment camps where they send the Uyghurs in China to indoctrinate them out of their religion.
They don't want kids to know about LGBT topics partly because it makes it easier to indoctrinate them to be homophobic and transphobic, but also because they don't want them to know that being LGBT is an option. If they're taught that it exists, queer kids will realize at a younger age that they're queer. So long as they don't know they can be queer, they're more likely to remain closeted long enough to, say, make the kind of life decisions that will make it significantly harder to come out at a later date, such as getting married and having children. In the case of trans kids, transition will be significantly easier, cheaper and yield better results if started at a young age, and the GOP certainly doesn't want that. If they can't transition young, trans people are more likely to give up on ever transitioning.
If you eliminated every trans person on the planet, there would eventually be new trans persons. This is because "trans" isn't an inherited trait. Trans parents don't necessarily have trans kids.
These people aren't ever going to speak with trans persons because they don't consider trans persons as people. Trying to shame them over their lack of action isn't going to achieve a thing.