Insufficient information. In my experience, lawyers do not respond this tersely unless there is another issue, as mundane as lack of payment, or as serious as the lawyer wanting to distance from an iffy situation, but cannot withdraw yet. The dad may have pleaded no contest as a plea deal because the case was not as clear cut as OP understands. OP and her lawyer may have been having difficulties before.
Family law attorney here. We're any dcfs findings made? What do you mean he got off on all charges? What was he charged with? Was there a victims advocate? Has your kid seen a therapist or counselor about this? Was a Guardian ad litem appointed? Has one been requested? Before a court will permanently deny a parent of their custody rights, it needs to make findings. Findings usually need supporting evidence. Your statements alone may not be enough. But it sounds like your attorney already got you the schedule you want, I'm confused why you would start new with someone else.
While everyone else right to say "go get a new lawyer", keep in mind that you're going to sink several hours into just getting your new lawyer up to speed. I would first ask your attorney to schedule a 30 minute/1 hour meeting to go over strategy and answer questions, and take notes in that meeting. This serves two points:
2.) Your attorney explains things well enough so that when you get a new lawyer, you can get them up to speed faster, because you've recently taken notes from your attorney. It will also give you a better starting point when asking questions from your new lawyer.
Generally speaking, as long as a parent still has parental rights and is making progress, the courts will generally try to move to at least more visitation. But the first step would not be unrestricted in-person visits, it would generally be third party supervised visits - either through a trusted family member or a service that he pays for. And the fact your attorney doesn't seem to have told you this is very worrying. That said, every locality and court is different on what steps they take. It's theoretically possible your attorney knows certain fights are unwinnable in that court and is trying to avoid them. It's also possible your attorney doesn't know which fights are winnable.
1.) Your attorney may explain things to your satisfaction, and you decide you don't need to switch lawyers.
It can't hurt to discuss the option with a much more competent attorney than the one you currently have. Good luck.