And then what? Pilots quit, and/or wildcat strike anyway, and the airlines do what? Make the C-suite execs try and fly the planes? You can't effectively scab the entirety of high-skill and high-experience jobs like "large passenger plane pilot.".
Also fuck executives for talking about the "hand of the free market" whenever workers lose out, but then they go crying to their pocket onahole/senator the minute the market turns against them for bailouts and legislation to protect their failing system.
Taxpayers shouldn't be underwriting shitty management practices and shitty business decisions for the benefit of Wall Street leeches who suck all the capital out of our economy to enrich themselves at the expense of the nation and who NEVER got the comeuppance they deserved for causing the Great Recession. Socializing the losses while privatizing the profits is absolutely intolerable.
Why do they want bailouts? Because the alternative is filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy while either securing debtor-in-possession financing or being put into a federally-administered receivership to keep the airline operating, which would mean a few things for them: 1) their shareholders would lose a LOT of money, 2) their Unions would be forced to accept changes to their CBAs, and, perhaps most importantly, 3) management would lose their fucking jobs and not get millions in severance pay.
If an airline can't keep 2 pilots in the cockpit, pay staff decent wages, and still stay profitable, then, fuck 'em. They don't deserve to be in business. Let them go bankrupt or force them into federally-administered receiverships like we did with General Motors.
You need TWO human beings in the cockpit, so that if one of them has a heart attack or is even merely just off their game on a given day, 200+ people will not die. Computers are not yet good enough to fly a plane autonomously for the entire duration of the flight from "Ass-in-Seat" to "Wheels-on-Ground". A.I. isn't even good enough to drive a car along just an X-axis & a Y-axis without somehow fucking it up; like hell can A.I. handle a Z-axis thrown into the mix, too. FOH with that.
That's the issue. OTOH, the airlines would point to statistics showing how seldom any type of in-flight pilot incapacity occurs. Cynical: as long as there are insurance carriers daft enough to provide coverage for flights with a single pilot, airlines are willing to risk losing entire aircraft and all passengers because the expected saving from LOTS of flights with just one pilot is greater than the expected costs from VERY FEW crashed flights.
Give the airlines a trade-off which would get their attention: outlaw insurance for liability and the aircraft itself as well as removing all civil suit caps for passengers' surviving family for anything going wrong on any flight with just one pilot.
If this passes I’m hoping it leads to either an aviation industry strike or a passenger boycott - you’d think safety practices would be a primary means of getting people into planes, and therefore be a driver of ticket sales but I guess these fucks are so stingy that they think that cutting corners on the literal human element of the air travel industry is a good idea.