It doesn't address sci-fi per se, but u/sunagainstgold has a couple answers and from a few years ago about how people in the Middle Ages/pre-1700s viewed "The Future." While I'm not sure that it directly answers your question, I think that imagining sci-fi in the first place needs some sort of view of what the future can be, so this may address part of the foundation of your question.
So the first question when discussing ancient science fiction is, how do you define science fiction in the first place, and how do you separate it from other forms of speculative fiction like fantasy and science fantasy? , so it's tricky to get a precise answer. The definition I like the most comes from Ray Bradbury, who says that science fiction "is interested in more than sciences, more than machines. That more is always men and women and children themselves, how they behave, how they hope to behave. Science fiction is apprehensive of future modes of behavior as well as future constructions of metal." Though perhaps it's easiest to keep it broad, and utilize Mark Glassey's invocation of a SCOTUS Justice's definition of porn: "I know it when I see it." Regardless of the definition (a clause I hesitate to write), science fiction broadly deals with worlds and concepts that don't exist on ours, and has themes of exploration into new lands, the future, and scientific innovation that we do not yet have.
Lucian's writings are largely considered the first writings of science fiction, and True History winds up foreshadowing a lot of future science fiction, as well as science reality. But if we expand the scope of science fiction, could his predecessors be considered science fiction as well? —like the story of Gilgamesh, written thousands of years before even Lucian—but there is debate over whether they qualify as "science fiction". The Greek comedy play The Birds (414 BCE), for example, features men leaving their city, transforming into human-bird hybrids, and starting their own utopia up in the sky, between the world of man and Olympus. Ancient Indian poetry features stories of time travel and space travel. The implementation of these science fiction themes may be different than how we recognize it today, but they certainly serve as a precursor to the concept.
Literary theory — Sci-fi literature is more than just books about spaceships and "future stuff". Istvan Csicsery-Ronay Jr. wrote a 2008 book titled "The Seven Beauties of Science Fiction" in which he breaks sci-fi into seven essential elements. If any work has any of these elements present, he argues, they should be treated as science fiction.
This definition of sci-fi seems far too broad. Just take the example of St. John's Revelation. It is, literally, an apocalypse (as in, that's the name of the book), and the apocalyptic genre as a whole is all about numbers 5 and 6 there. The whole idea is a sort of "lifting of the veil" to reveal the reality beyond the physical, the super-reality, of the world, and this super-reality is, ultimately, beyond comprehension.