It's understood that there never really was a "Race for Berlin" between the Western Allies and Soviets. As the post-war plans laid out during the Yalta Conference in February of 1945, eastern Germany, as well as half of Berlin was to fall under a Soviet occupation zone. With the Soviets allotted the lions share of Eastern Germany as a post-war occupation zone, there was no incentive for Roosevelt, via Eisenhower, to advance on Berlin and sustain the casualties necessary just for the moniker of getting there first, just to hand almost all those gains back to the Soviets.
I'm not refuting the fact that the Western and Eastern offensives were coordinated, that much is true, but just pointing out that Stalin really didn't need to "break" any sort of deal, it was generally understood beforehand that the Soviets were going to be the ones to capture Berlin. Had the Western Allies rushed for Berlin before the Soviets, it would in fact be seen a breach of the deal struck at Yalta to the Soviets, and Roosevelt was not keen on crossing Stalin by taking territory already slated for Soviet occupation.
After the US entered the war and communications and summits between the "Big Three" began to grow, Stalin was forceful in insisting that the Western Allies opened up a second front in Europe. He was particularly frustrated in November 1942 when the US entered the fighting in a big way through the invasion of North Africa. However, this decision to target North Africa was largely due to the determination of the US to get its soldiers fighting and due to the limitations of shipping. Even this operation in North Africa cost a lot in terms of global supply because merchant shipping and naval escorts were a significant limitation on the conduct of the war for the Allies, and this size of operation was all that was manageable at this time.
There is important context in that about 4 out of 5 of all Wehrmacht soldiers killed died on the Eastern Front, which is somewhat remarkable when you consider how many US, British and British Empire forces were mobilised and participated in the European war. Of course, the US & British (inclusive of empire) did a lot of heavy lifting in other ways (production, supply, naval and air wars, code-breaking, etc), but it's nonetheless useful to understand the Soviet perspective.
Your answer is appropriately written to reflect the Soviet perspective, but it is helpful to understand that is just a perspective.
Ignores that the US was doing this while sending an entire Army's worth of material to the Soviet's as well as fighting another war on the far side of the world.