"But I'm a process server" is a defense to the charge. Do process servers require licensure from the state? How does one identify or prove their status as a process server?
I do have a license issued by the court, and I'm appointed via county administrative order signed by the judge. I filed judicial notice on it and included the CA case number and my licence. There's no question as to whether or not a certified process server though, the state doesn't claim that I am not one. The state claims that process servers are not exempt from said law ( if you look up the law, it's literally in the title that process servers are exempt "Window sunscreening exclusions; medical exemption; certain law enforcement vehicles, process server vehicles, and private investigative service vehicles exempt."). It's not just something I can succeed at on my own, but as I have said I have done so on multiple occasions. I'm actually surprised they write the ticket because no doubt they see my record, and they also see the previous cases that were dismissed for the same thing.
If I am the cop and I stop you and I say "Your windows are too dark" and you say "But I'm a process server" what can you show me to prove you are so?
An ID issued by the 18th circuit, which I handed the officer. The state isn't actually disputing that I'm a process server, this case is built upon the assumption that I am a process of Earth so this sort of discussion is sort of meaningless anyways, whether I'm not a process server doesn't matter because the state assumes that I am a process server in this fact pattern. What the state is saying is that I am not exempt when I clearly am exempt as a process server.
That's roughly the equivalent of demanding that you not be arrested when shooting a person in self defense.
There is no reason why police can't ticket you when they believe you are violating the tinting rule. You can then defend yourself in court by showing that you are exempt from the rule by virtue of being a process server.
There has to be some process by which you can enjoin law enforcement from repeatedly attempting to prosecute someone for a crime that they know or should know a person is not guilty of.
I as a citizen, can't sue someone for breach of contract, lose the case, and then repeatedly attempt to sue the person over and over again every time I perceive them breaching that contract for the same exact reason I was previously told is not a breach of said contract. The court would look at it for what it is, harassment, and would probably stipulate that I meet some sort of affirmative benchmark before I can file suit the next time for the same thing.
Are you continuously being given tickets by the same officer? If not, I can't see how the officer giving a ticket "should" know that you haven't committed a violation.
I know they have the privilege of ignorance of the law, but that's typically for a reasonable suspicion, I'm sure ignorance of the law isn't enough for probable cause. It's one thing to pull someone over for what you suspect might be a crime, but then prosecuting someone because you "don't know what the law is" it's an extra step.
Let me make this very clear to you, I'm going to absolutely slam dunk this case, not as a hypothetical but I have in the past. I have literally defended myself in this type of case multiple times and it has been nothing but an embarrassment to the cops. I think you're probably trying to argue that my facts are weak, assure you that I am not worried about whether or not I will win this case. I have basically already won it, I don't even know if the cops going to show up to the court date. I'm just looking for a relief for the future.
If you can prove that you're a process server in court then you should win that case- you have an actual defense to the charge.
I am not trying to argue your facts at all, and I don't have any attachment to how you will or will not do in this case.
Talk to a lawyer if you want to try to pursue injunctive relief (which I think is a long shot at the very most).
I don't care if it's a long shot but you miss every shot you don't take and the judge isn't going to issue an order unless you ask for it. I'm looking for the best route here, post trial motion? Pre trial motion? High likelihood of strait dismissal before any trial at all.
We're not discussing your criminal case- you've said repeatedly that you have that well in hand and know for sure you'll win and you've done it before and like to laugh about it or whatever.
You're asking for something different, you're asking for (I guess) a statewide blanket injunction from cops everywhere in the state from charging you with a specific statutory violation.
That's separate from your criminal case, and you're going to need an IRL lawyer to pursue it. It'll be a new case that you file and not related to the criminal case that you know beyond a doubt you can win with one hand tied behind your back.
Perhaps, you're right, I could probably go for a malicious prosecution suit and then settle for a consent decree from the state, they are liable to give it to me just to make me go away but that is also a lot of extra work for me.
I don't need to have the state be a party though for an injunction, I could just ask for injunctive relief from action by FHP specifically. It's probably not that much of an ask either, the Judge simply issues an order that a higher standard be meet in order to issue a ticket for violation of window tint statutes, essentially making them ask the court first before they can bring any action against me for that specific thing. That doesn't seem too unreasonable nor undoable.
You can make you can have a junction that don't apply to the entire united states and are actually quite easy and reasonable to comply with.