To focus only on the Romans (as I tend to do), the answer is straightforward: they (typically) drank in moderation, and watered down their wine.
The usual estimate is that adult Romans consumed about a liter (that is, rough a quart) of wine every day. Since this equates to about 1 1/3 modern bottles of wine, you might assume that they constantly tipsy. By and large, however, they were not.
There were, of course, exceptions to the rule of moderation, which our sources love to dwell on. The emperor Tiberius, for example, was greatly impressed by the potatious prowess of a man from Milan known as "Tricongius" (three gallon guy) because he could...drink three gallons of wine in a single draft. Even more impressively (according to Pliny the Elder) Tricongius never got drunk (HN 14.145). Likewise, the emperor Aurelian is said to have had a jester who would drink an entire cask of wine through the ancient equivalent of a beer bong for the edification of the imperial court (SHA, Aur. 50.4). The most telling signs of indulgence, however, are the many hangover remedies mentioned in our sources.
First, that liter was consumed over the course of the entire day, and unless you happened to be attending a particularly debauched convivium (as the Romans sometimes called banquets that involved a great deal of wine), you wouldn't drink all that much at a sitting. The poet Horace suggested that a pint (about two-thirds of a modern bottle) was more than sufficient for a pleasant dinner (Sat. 1.1.74).
Given that a modern bottle of wine is typically 11.6% and 750ml, that's still well in excess of modern guidance of moderation. Sure, you can drink that and never be drunk when spread across the day, but I wonder about the long term health effects. Are we able to tell from the historical sources or from archaeological remains about the longer term consequences of this?
Second, the Romans (like the Greeks) almost always watered down their wine. Most ancient wines probably had an alcohol content around 15% (the Romans harvested grapes when they were ripe and full of sugar, and allowed fermentation to reach its natural conclusion – that is, to continue until all the sugars were consumed or alcohol killed the yeast). It was, however, considered barbaric, or at least very bad taste, to drink wine neat. Authorities disagreed about the ideal proportion. In most cases, however, the wine consumed at social gatherings was probably between two-thirds and three-fourths water, which would have reduced the alcoholic content to about that of modern beer.
The fact that our sources mention such excess with such regularity and such disapproval, however, reinforces the fact that rampant consumption was rare, and moderation the rule.
In other words, while your comment focus on the short term negative effects (i.e. being drunk and having a hangover), I wonder if in drinking it throughout the day was a negative on their long term health.
The one liter/day estimate is probably more applicable to men than women. For a variety of social factors, Roman men tended to consume considerably more wine than spouses and sisters (it was taboo, for example, for women to drink heavily at banquets).
Excessive though Roman consumption might seem, it was not all that inordinate by historical standards. In the Arsenal of Venice, to take one eye-catching example:
"....the volume of wine consumed...increased steadily over time, from an average 3.2 liters per man each day in the period 1615–19 to 5 liters a day in the late 1630s. In the mid-1500s, consumption had been 2.5 liters a day per worker, so per capita consumption had doubled in less than a century.".
Did this cause any issues in terms of the quality of ships and materials being produced? Or was being able to drink a bunch at work more of a perk like dental or healthcare is now?
The workers certainly regarded it as a perk. Drinking that much wine could not have been good for work habits, though as far as I know, the quality of Venetian ships didn't suffer.
Romans typically ate a very light breakfast, so most wine was drunk with lunch and dinner. The heaviest consumption, as might be expected, accompanied dinner, which tended to be the largest and longest meal.