PLEASE READ. I am a seller with over 10+ years experience. I deal with these chargebacks every month. You just need to contact eBay CS and go through the first level of employees who will just tell you no and that you are liable. Speak direct to a supervisor and tell them calmly what happened. This is a scam that is well known on eBay. The reps are well aware of it. They want you to go away but you don’t have to. Tell the supervisor you want your money refunded. They can refund the case on the phone with you or at times it may take an extra 2-3 days for them to research it. Make sure to report the buyer as well. Bank chargebacks you are NOT liable for a sort of eBay seller protection. Whatever low level rep told you that is wrong.
I cannot thank you enough for your advice! Wish I had done it sooner, but now I know what to do, thanks to you. Your advice got my ass into gear.
Call YOUR local police to report this. I know that the person lives in another state but the incident needs to be reported to the jurisdiction that YOU, the victim, were when it occurred. Sort of like how you live in ND; if you were to visit NY and the hotel you were in caught fire you're call the NY fire department, not the ND fire department.
They'll probably tell you that it is a civil matter (and it is on your end, so you could sue) but they should at least generate an incident number for you to provide to Ebay.
The supervisor looked through my case, and apparently my appeal was never actually filed. She took a listen to the phone call, and today I got an email saying I would be refunded the money in addition to having my store reinstated.
I contacted customer service yesterday, and of course only the chat function worked. They asked me why I didn't file a case within the 30 days, which of course I did on the very next day after the fraud claim ruling. They passed me to another department, and said that I should have filed within 30 days. At that point I really pressed the issue and told them that "I haven't been given a reason as to why I don't qualify for seller protections. I want your supervisor to tell me why.".
And you were incredibly astute to keep messaging via Ebay's platform - otherwise you'd be out of luck.
And perhaps the person who REALLY bought the item had stolen the true credit card's owner's identity which could be why the fraud claim occurred.
To your last point, I'm starting to believe that the buyer and credit card owner are not the same person. Unfortunately, eBay doesn't let you know how they paid. With PayPal controlling things, it was a lot easier.
The Power Seller thing, I've come to find out, means absolutely nothing to eBay. They have done nothing to help, and I've been buying and selling on there since 2006.