Trial-by-combat originated as part of ancient Germanic law, an unwritten code followed by society for centuries, that dictated two parties in disagreement would fight eachother to determine who was right.
It became codified in writing later on and part of the formal judicial process in central Europe, whereby if both sides presented contradictory evidence, the case would be settled by this method and whoever won would be proved right because of judicium Dei (God's favor).
If ... (in court) the testimony of both parties contradicts each other and neither party wants to give way to the other, then two from their midst, i.e. H. one from each party to be chosen to fight with scutis et fustibus (shields and sticks) on the battlefield. And the defeated fighter is said to lose his right hand because of the perjury he has committed. The other witnesses from the same party may trigger their hand (by paying money).
By the 13th century, the Germanic legal book Sachsenspiegel (c. 1230) used in the Holy Roman Empire described the entire process and by then swords were used in place of sticks.
The judge should also put a shield and a sword to the one who is accused (if he needs it) ... He should give two messengers, each of those who are to fight, who see that they are prepared for the right habit. You can wear leather and linen as much as you like. Their heads and feet are bare in front, and on their hands they should have nothing but thin gloves; a bare sword in hand and one girdled around or two, that is their choice; a round shield in the other hand, with nothing but wood and leather on it except the hump, it can be iron ... Both of them should go armed before the judge and swear, one of them: that the guilt is true, that's why he is suing him Has; and the other (should swear) that he is innocent, that God might help them in their fight.
Peace should be given to the battle-ring by the neck, so that no one prevents them from fighting. The judge should give each of them a man to carry his rod. He should not hinder them in anything, except that he put the pole between them if one of them falls, or if he is wounded or asks for the pole; He is not allowed to do this, because he has permission from the judge ... If the one against whom one complains is overcome, one judges him; if he wins, that (plaintiff) lets him drive with a fine (to the court) and with a fine (to the defendant personally).
In the context it was used recently, it meant bypassing the courts (with the many failed lawsuits to overturn the US election) and reverting back to the time when disputes were legally settled by fighting, with the strongest winning.
Occasionally professional fighters would be hired by the separate parties to preform the duel in their name, and the fights were not meant to kill the opponent but rather to incapacitate them and in the later centuries it become far less violent and more ceremonial and heavily restricted by rules so nobody died.
Although /u/etan-tan notably brings some admirable first accounts, I would be vary of tracing trial by combat to Ancient Germanic laws in isolation, though one can dispute the differences how a "judiciary" function is, or would be, seen throughout the periods, but I would add that it is indeed generally correct to trace European Medieval and early Modern codified practices to it, though the precedent is much more widespread and diverse.
Without specifics, although if need be, I can say more about them, we see various modes of trials by ordeals and trials by combat in Ancient literature, like Tanakh, Epic of Gilgamesh, Illiad, we get an account of trial by combat in a dispute over the succession of Thebes between King Eteocles and exiled brother Polynices, or the Dorian advance in Peloponnese, and how was it thwarted by the death of Hyllus in single combat, and his army had to retreat as agreed.
We get another account by Strabo,-- Athenians and Mytilenaeans were in dispute over Sigeum and Achilleum, with Phrynon and Pittacus respectively, and the latter won with what could be called a trickery, so the Athenians were dissatisfied and sought arbitration from Periander of Corinth.
Thank you Very interesting historical president I knew there must be some sort of historical standing, and there were fines to be paid to get out of it! Thanks for posting this.
This submission has been removed because it involves current events. To keep from discussion of politics, we have a here. You may want to try /r/ask_politics or another current-events focused sub. For further explanation of this rule, feel free to consult .