I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Yeah like they said not enough evidence. Not saying they don't think it happened just saying when he goes to court for those charges there is really no hard proof that he did any of these things and it is just hearsay. I would suggest trying to have someone there with you to be a witness and document everything. But be careful if you do record anything in the apartment depending on the state if it's just you and him it could be illegal since you're not in a public place. But take pictures of anything deemed worthy. But at the end of the day the best thing to do is leave and get a restraining order because these cases are tricky for prosecutors to get enough evidence to convict. So usually they won't touch it until they are certain they have something.
I own the house. I can't leave. Restraining orders in oregon are only for significant others. If I don't record it but have like a zoom call going? Would that be okay? Because my dog has been super shakey since he was here...
So in Oregon the video taping is a two party law. Meaning in a private place or setting two parties must consent to the recording. But if you video taping them in the private setting and it is obvious and in plain view that you are it is legal until they refuse to be recorded. However if it's in a public setting you can video record and audio record them without them knowing and without their consent. So as soon as anything happens whip out the phone in plain view and hope he doesn't say no to it. If it's out in public setting I'd record anything fishy. Document any injuries you or your dog receive and make sure a medical professional has seen it. The theft is hard to catch them without being illegal about it. Breaking things take pictures of it. I'd suggest finding any way to get away from him at first but if you can't just record and document. Call the police everytime something happens because they require a police report to be filed which when they do have enough evidence to charge him there is a secret rap sheet of reports filed of what happend and once they convict him of one things they could get him on a couple other reports that happened in the past.
A person may not knowingly make or record a photograph, motion picture, videotape or other visual recording of another person ’s intimate area the consent o f the other person, and the w ithout person being recorded has a reasonable expectation of privacy concerning the intimate area . 163.700(1)(a) Or. Rev. Stat. Ann. § 23.
So you are kinda correct here. The thing is Oregon is a tricky state like many others. There are states that specify different statutes for video taping in private settings where someone would be expected to have privacy. However Oregon is one of many where they don't specify it. Which doesn't mean you can get away with video taping people in private settings. Another thing with Oregon that is tricky is audio recording. You need two party consent in a private setting such as a meeting or conference or at home to record audio. If the video has no audio you would think it's okay to secretly video tape someone in a private setting since Oregon doesn't have any statutes on it. Wrong, this just means that it's up to the judge to determine what's legal and illegal video recordings. So since Oregon has no laws on video recording without audio in private places you have to be careful. So a general rule of thumb is you cannot record someone in a place where they have an expectation of privacy. Now a way to get around this is for whoever owns the house to rewrite the lease or whatever contract that he has to live there to say in common areas and list ou the rooms that are common areas you don't have the expectation of privacy and can be video taped at any time then you could whip our your phone, video surveillance, or anything to record them in the common areas. However, since it is technically a place of privacy you could get into trouble. Now another thing is if you see him committing any felony acts such as battery, hitting you, your dog or someone else you can record them anywhere without permission. I don't advise this because some people can't tell the difference between a misdemeanor act and a felony act. So he he commits any felonies that you saw you can start recording.
So you can put any security cameras up without anyone's permission in private areas only you use. You can put security cameras up in ever common area in the house but all owners and people who pay rent at that house must agree to it in order to have them in common areas. I would believe if you could get them in the common areas that would mitigate any harm to your dog. If you cannot get them in common areas you should put them up in your private room or any area that is considered only yours and always be with your dog and when you leave keep your dog in those private areas to also insure safety of the dog.