In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I said the same, less eloquently to a Maga guy in a Reddit back and forth, and he didn’t take issue with me repeatedly saying “your idea are unpopular and based on hate.”.
The GOP have plugged in and amped up hatred and crazy so much that conservatives that have a good head on their shoulders don’t know which way is up anymore. I am on a business trip and I brought up the HBO show last of us to the guy I was traveling with, and he told me he is huge fan of the game and loved what they are doing on the show. Then he just volunteered that he hated that they always had to shove the gay stuff down our throats. This dude is a huge fan of the game right? It’s big part of the game and not just for the characters he was referring to. Why would the show bother him? I think Christian religions are desperate to stop what must be a mass exodus. I think this doubling down harder than ever on gay issues is to ensure who they already have and future converts will be more indoctrinated with fear and hatred than ever before because if they don’t they lose it all. That core group that is too scared to question needs to be much bigger. They need teachers that are so pious they would turn in their students for their future sins. They need normal dudes on business trips to hate something that had nothing but love in the telling of it. They need fascism to keep what power they have left. They have no other ideas but hate. And all it is is theater for these assholes.
I’m in California and there are teachers that would absolutely burn their students. Hell, I was hired at a school because I had a frank discussion with the principal and flat out asked him how he protects and supports Queer students and other marginalized groups. He told me I was the first one to ever ask him that and that he really wished he had more teachers that wanted to protect the students.
Yeah but they don’t throw you in jail for ignoring stupid policies. Believe me, a teacher, you normally just get an email.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Very true, but that world gets used so often, it’s good to have it spelled now and again, for all sides of the argument.
I would never teach in these states because the whole reason I took the job was to teach and protect children. I’ll just keep doing what I do in a red part of my blue state.
Yeah, and if I’m in jail I’m not helping the kids anyway. Let those states brain drain while I am training up thousands of the next generation which will affect national policy.