By served, do you mean "He didn't notify us in writing that our tenancy was ending" or were you actually expecting a process server?
I don't think you're listening to what we're saying. Either that, or you've not made something clear.
You do not want an actual, formal eviction on your record. While you do need to make sure that you rights as tenants are protected, "Fuck you, I'm going to make you evict us" is not the correct answer. An eviction on your record will make it almost impossible to rent anything for years.
I feel bad for you, but legally, 30 days notice is what you are required to have (since you haven't specified that you live in Chicago or that you have any special legal circumstances that would extend this notice period).
Okay we had a year lease ended 02/2021 he told us to stay another year and use our old lease as a new one like it would just pass over to another year since it was signed by all of us but upon looking at the laws after him trying to kick us out we’re legally on a month to month because we didn’t technically sign a new lease we used the old lease as a new one because that’s what he said to do. Apparently he has his daughter coming back from out of state and she needs to live somewhere so he’s kicking us out so she can move here. We haven’t broken any of the lease agreements and we also have not ever been late on rent or owe rent. I really want to just take him to court to see if the eviction won’t be on our record because this is fucking bullshit and he’s just being a slumlord. I can’t move to this side of town because there’s shootings literally everyday there and he’s charging us the same amount. I don’t want an eviction on my record but us moving to this house is dangerous and we’re facing homelessness because of this.
But you don't have the right to stay beyond that. It doesn't matter that you haven't broken the lease agreement or been late on rent.
That's not how it works. If you stay past the time you are legally required to leave, he can go to court to have you evicted. If that's granted by a judge, then no amount of suing him will remove it.
He cannot force you to move right this second. He needs to give you 30 days notice that your tenancy is ending. You can insist that he give you this in writing. If he tries to kick you out before the 30 days is up, you can call the police to stop him.
Rental laws in the US are not fantastic, but you do need to educate yourself on what's legal and what isn't before you just decide that a landlord is a "scummy slumlord". I'm not saying that this guy isn't an asshole, but you don't have the legal ground to stand on that you think you do.
A lawyer won't be any more help than what was advised here. The landlord followed the law in giving you 30 day notice. The reason for them giving notice makes absolutely no difference.
You really need to be focusing your energies on finding a new place to move into before the end of August.
Do you have a current lease, have you always been a month to month tenant, or did you originally have a lease but you stayed after the lease ended and are currently month to month?
Well considering the fact that he’s forcing out of this house just so his daughter can move back when my family and I were told for half a year our lease ends on 02/2022 and we’ve even improved his property at no cost to him and so much more yeah that’s pretty scummy to me… i don’t see what could even qualify him to be a good landlord. I live outside Chicago like right outside. I’ve been searching for homes but unless you live in my area you would know the housing is shit and it’s not like i have $3000+ to just up and leave within 30 days. My question literally was just does he have to serve us an eviction or can he just verbally say we have 30 days?
Okay so we were on a year lease signed and everything that ended 02/2021 he told us that we could use our old lease as a new one but technically it wasn’t a new lease and he lied to us about it. He told us our lease ends 02/2022 over and over then his daughter comes back and since he knew it wasn’t a new lease it was legally a month to month since we didn’t sign a new lease but I’m young and this is my first house I’ve lived in so I didn’t know this till after he tried kicking us out. It went from a year lease to month to month since his daughter was moving back.
Ok so it looks like your lease converted to a month to month after 2/2021. If the original lease doesn't mention anything about automatic conversion to another year long lease ,then you are correct, it is a month to month.
Looks like your state of IL only requires 30 day notice and does not specify it needs to be in writing. Your post says that you were given the notice. If you are not out in 30 days, then the landlord can move to evict you.
Outside of Chicago, landlords need to give you 30 days notice that your lease is ending. This should be in writing.