I would strongly recommend that you speak to an estate planning lawyer or a family law lawyer about this before making any firm decisions. There are a number of caveats and maybes to any answer you're going to get here, and in this context, you would probably benefit if you got those reviewed professionally.
Things that are completely separate assets, and not part of your marital estate, are very likely his to do with as he pleases. However, you should not take his word on which assets those are: his assessment may be wrong, and if it is, it doesn't do you any good to believe him or to let him walk off with things you have a right to.
Insurance is a special case, as it's not part of someone's estate at all. Insurance policies can be an asset, but if you want to force a change, you might need to do that while your husband is alive, via a divorce, rather than after he passes.
Marital assets are more complicated. He may be able to will part of them to others, but probably not all of them. The exact contours of that limit depend on local law. Locally, for example, a spouse has an absolute right to the proportion of their deceased partner's estate that they would have gotten had a divorce been finalized the same day, regardless of what the deceased spouse's will says. Other jurisdictions set a proportion, or a flat amount plus a proportion, as a spousal elective share.
His inheritance and the benefits of trusts he's party to might be separate assets until commingled with marital assets.
Either you need to divorce and get a settlement now so you can do your own estate planning, or if you and your husband decide to stay together, you need to agree to sit down and make an estate plan together that won't leave you high and dry. His inheritance is absolutely his separate property and would be so in any community property state, but you need to make sure that you don't get screwed with respect to the property you've accumulated together.
Two other things worth making clear -- even if your husband did leave everything to your daughter and died, as her sole legal parent, you would have control of that money until she is 18, unless the trust designates someone else.
To your relationship question, whether this is _normal_ or not, it's clearly something that distresses you. In context, it sounds like it maybe important enough to you to put your foot down over. Whether you talk to a lawyer now or not, I would strongly suggest that you also talk to a personal therapist to start sorting through your feelings about this and to come to terms with whatever decision you arrive at. You deserve support right now and this is a _hard_ situation.
Based on this, it's critical that you go and see an attorney. Georgia is not a community property state and is rare in that it essentially allows one spouse to disinherit another almost completely, except for a year's worth of maintenance after death. You need to make sure that you are on the deed to your house as cotenant (preferably transfer on death/right of survivorship) and are beneficiary of the 401k and life insurance.