If attorneys in your jurisdiction have turned down your case, I am going to assume that they have determined that this is not a good case for them to pursue.
They redirect me or don't seem to grasp that I want to counter sue beyond civil court for something that maybe doesn't exactly fall under tenant/landlord laws before passing me another number.
I'm open to the process being bias and not valuing science based studies, but I still don't have a general direction of which type of practitioner of the law to talk with. Most places I've called have been connected to non lawyers and I feel like because of that and the above I'm not getting anywhere with someone who will understand the case.
“Keep in mind that, if you want to sue the plaintiff as part of the claim he or she filed against you, you have to meet the requirements for small claims court. That means that you cannot ask for more than $10,000 in your claim. If you are a business or other entity (like a government entity) you cannot ask for more than $5,000. And you cannot have a lawyer represent you in court. But you can talk to a lawyer before or after your court trial.
If you want to ask for more than $10,000 (for individuals) or $5,000 (businesses and other entities), you need to sue in the civil division of the superior court and not in small claims court. In the civil division, lawyers can represent each side. Click for information on lawsuits in the civil division.”.
Any lawyers who practice in the fields you have mentioned would be able to take your case. I am assuming that they have not and have punted you off because you are not presenting a legally cognizable claim.
I’ve primarily been answered by phone with secretaries, I’ve scheduled call backs with lawyers that I’m waiting to hear back from and discuss. I would like to be answered hear if this seems more like a tenant/landlord lawyer that I need to talk to, personal injury, or someone else. I understand what I want to do is a far stretch, and I don’t want just anyone to say sure they’ll try.I just want to confirm which specialized type of lawyer I should seek out.
Unsure honestly, the only people living there were my family. They paid rent to to the same person I consigned to, the person pursuing me is not that person however.
Still more interested in who I should seek for my counter sue effort primarily because that problem is in small claims court, and I want to counter sue beyond that 10k threshold.