>Pevkur also suggested Russia would learn from what it has experienced in Ukraine. "We have no reason to believe that the threat from Russia is somehow reduced or that the threat to NATO is reduced.".
Hmm. It prevented Ukrainian Air Force from operating in the frontline area, it's A-50s are used for tracking and early warning. And a few hundred missiles launched at energy infrastructure is nothing?
It is worth mentioning that the Russia Air Force hasn't changed much because its been found to be largely ineffective in the Ukraine war and hasn't played much of a roll in the conflict.
But for the most part their combat jets have not done much at all in the conflict considering how long it’s dragged on.
They touted the size and strenh of their Air Force well before the war and it’s been comical to see how small of a roll it’s playing.
I hate to say this and I'm no expert so take what I say with a grain of salt but I think Russia's campaign is doing better than it would seem.
A few months ago, there was news about how Ukraine sunk the Moskva ship and how with the help of the Himars, the Ukrainians managed to destroy a couple of grounded Russian jets. These are moral-boosting, headline-grabbing news but as a whole, the Russian navy and airforce are still pretty much intact and unused. Yeah their ground forces are in shambles but as the Estonian minister said they'll pretty much rebuild it sooner or later.
Russia didn't manage to capture Kiev like they wanted with the 40-mile convoy but they did manage to get their secondary objective of creating a land bridge from Russia to Crimea. If Ukraine were to get a peace deal now that would probably mean that Russia will get to keep their land bridge. This in turn would mean that Odesa (one of Ukraine's most important city from what I understand) is now only a stone's throw away from Russian-controlled territories. Now the onus is on Ukraine to sever that land bridge which has yet to be done with winter coming.
Lastly, with regard to the sanctions. Yeah, they're doing a number on Russia's economy and it's dramatically slowing down their ability to resupply their troops and build advanced weaponry and missiles...but whenever a peace deal is reached, I have a sneaking suspicion NATO countries are all too ready to drop the sanctions to get their hands on cheap Russian oil again. I think some of the sanctions will probably stay after the war, however.
The upside that I see is that Russia’s military is in a bad state and may take a while before they can ready another incursion on another country. And if the sanctions stay in place, it will slow down Russia even more from acquiring advanced weaponry and missiles. But even if Europe start buying Russian oil again, I think the landscape is forever changed and the amount of oil and gas that Europe will import will be much lower than what it used to be. Last upside I guess is that this invasion is speeding Europe towards renewable energy and away from Russian energy dependency. But what I also fear is that by cutting off the economic ties between US/Europe and Russia it will only mean that a larger war will become more likely later down the road.
\>Russia would learn from what it has experienced in Ukraine. "We have no reason to believe that the threat from Russia is somehow reduced or that the threat to NATO is reduced.".