Russia is forced to sell its oil at much lower figure due to price cap or oil cannot be shipped. They gambled Ukraine can be subdued before western nations sanction bite but failed.
Russia first started purchasing old tankers last July and has quietly amassed a fleet of more than 100 ageing tankers to help circumvent western restrictions. It has also started the Norther Route in winter for the first time using ice breakers to open the route to China to assess its viability. Due to the sanctions new companies have leapt into the void, and they're snapping up old tankers that might normally be scrapped.
Tanker management companies such as Fractal Shipping, run out of Swiss financial hub of Geneva, are reaping the rewards.
In less than a year, Fractal has put together a fleet of 25 oil and fuel tankers bought recently by owners in Dubai, all taking oil from Russia.
With new entrants keen to get a slice of the Russian business, second-hand oil tanker prices have surged, especially for Aframax vessels that can carry up to 600,000 barrels, the standard size used for loading crude at Russia's Baltic ports.
The price tag for 20-year-old Aframaxes has jumped 86% from $11.8 million on Jan. 1 to $22 million now. Ships earning $80,000 a day in the Mediterranean can make $130,000 a day if they carry Russian oil.
If the Russian oil supply was actually cut off oil prices would rise immensely. If specifically Russian oil prices are pressured to be lower than everyone else's, but the supply otherwise remains untouched, countries like China get cheap oil, while countries that don't like Russia get to hurt Russia without raising oil prices for themselves, since supply technically remains the same.
Which according to your own source were already working at capacity and are thus supplemented by shipping over sea routes.
“However, this pipeline seems to be at its capacity even before the Russia-Ukraine crisis, and it is unlikely for Russia to be able to increase its existing supplies to mainland China via this route. The other pipeline, the Atasu-Alashankou Pipeline, has limited spare capacity. The insufficiency in oil transmission capacity will force Russian barrels to take sea routes to mainland China if Russian ships continue to be diverted from countries that have imposed self-sanctions on Russian crudes”.