- mostly student-led protest happening in near proximity to an event that would attract world journalists.
With China, there were international, around-the-clock cameras. Bernard Shaw from CNN noted "You could say that that was the beginning of the ‘CNN effect'" -- that is, where 24-hour news became a real thing influencing world events.
In the case of Mexico, there was the _potential_ for live coverage -- geostationary satellites allowed for broadcasts over the entirety of the Earth by 1967 (the year before the Games). ABC did 44 hours live, and Japan, Australia, and.
both Western and Eastern Europe did live broadcasts as well. The Olympic Games had the largest audience for.
gave the Black Power salute -- more remembered now than the athletics -- it was during the medal ceremony, right on camera, potential audience in the hundreds of millions. It was not so easily forgotten.
you didn't get anything like the vivid "CNN effect" that would happen 21 years later. On the other hand, when John Carlos and Tommie Smith.
In Tlatelolco (a suburb of Mexico City) a student demonstration was unfolding at the Plaza of the Three Cultures. A month before, President.
The events of the massacre unfolded on the 2nd of October, 1968, 10 days before the opening ceremony of the Olympics.
However, these cameras weren't running yet when the Tlatelolco Massacre occurred; while there were journalists there (some with still cameras).
Gustavo Díaz Ordaz had in his state of the nation speech accused the students of attempting to "prevent the celebration of the Olympic Games" and.
The students felt like the PRI had betrayed the promise of the revolution of the 1910s, and no longer cared about social justice.
So if you'd like the simplest answer, that's an easy one to point to, but it doesn't quite explain _everything_, especially since the ruling party (PRI) eventually lost power when Vicente Fox won the elections in July 2, 2000, and those who cared still wanted answers.
to spread their message -- the local media in the 1960s, unfortunately, was heavily controlled by the government (i.e. some violence in protests already were.
blamed on students even when instigated by the riot police, the granaderos). Similar suppression techniques, the logic ran, wouldn't work on international.
Despite the presence of many journalists, there was mass confusion, and the official government line --.
Throughout Mexico, while some students had volunteered to help with the games, others thought to use the opportunity of the world stage.
A boy, approximately fifteen, tried to get a microphone to warn people in to plaza, but he was shot. People were lined up and clubbed with pistol butts. Students and reporters alike were clubbed.
but none had any method of signaling that they were being attacked by their own group. Snipers were also in position shooting from upper floors.
The Plaza on the 2nd gathered thousands; generally cheerful rather than foreboding, despite government helicopters flying overhead. Speeches began a little before 6 pm.
The crossfire lasted for about half and hour. Some students found soldiers who were as upset by the bloodshed as they were. It turns out.
had nothing to do with the Olympic Games". The Olympics started, and there was a wash of other news, most of it covered by live cameras in some form, allowing the events 10 days before to pass by the consciousness of the world.
at the time the shooting started, General Jose Toledo -- who was coordinating from the Plaza -- was announcing over a megaphone to the students.
Gunfire began to erupt from _blancos_ on the Plaza towards the balcony, and one of them tried to call.
to clear peacefully, but only several minutes later he was shot, and the soldiers under his command began firing randomly.
shooting began when snipers started shooting at the helicopters -- was not necessarily believable, but.
This -- plus very tight control over the local media -- allowed the PRI government to deflect blame. Brundage, president of the International Olympic Committee, was already blasé about.
The official government photographer heard the President say "They fooled me They fooled me" muttering to himself a few days later -- did he approve the use of agents but assumed for a different purpose? Echeverría was incidentally arrested in 2006 regarding his role in the massacre, that "he surely had knowledge". There is one other person potentially of blame, that of the President of the IOC himself, Avery Brundage, who had sent a warning message in September that any more trouble could cause the Olympics to be called off. His level of complicity is still in question, although he has been accused of not only knowing of the likely massacre ahead of time but even encouraging it.
The final complication -- part of the reason why, even now, this isn't as well-known a story -- is that various documents and information have only been unearthed recently, and it still is an open question who to blame. You see, according to some admittedly uncertain testimony, there were infiltrators amongst the _blancos_ themselves -- a group of ten agents from the Presidential Staff placed by General Oropeza, who supposedly had orders from ... someone ... and who, unlike those of Operation Galeana, had orders to shoot machine guns, not to arrest peacefully.
The culprit most obviously would be President Díaz Ordaz himself -- and he is the one most commonly blamed -- but it is possible the orders came from his Minister of the Interior (Luis Echeverría) or even General Oropeza himself.
This confusion and indirection (and some still-yet-to-be-released documents from Mexico) make it hard to reconstruct the complete story and make it better known to the world, but there is still time for it to happen (after all, many only learned of the 1921 Tulsa Massacre quite recently).
[add, since it came up in the comments: This is something that wasn't known internationally until recently so isn't relevant to the main answer, and it was banned in Mexico for nearly the entire time the PRI was in power (only shown in secret), but there is a documentary, El Grito, with footage from the summer. It uses stills for a lot of the massacre section, including a series a snapshots taken of the flares when they went up, but there is some footage -- Leobardo López Aretche, the documentarian, was arrested right at the Plaza -- and viewer discretion is very much advised.].
Blutstein, H. (2021). Games of Discontent: Protests, Boycotts, and Politics at the 1968 Mexico Olympics. McGill-Queen's Press-MQUP.
Murtha, R. T. (2018). "When the guns boom": the 1968 Olympics and the massacre at Tlatelolco (Doctoral dissertation).
Thank you so much for your detailed answer! As a Mexican myself, I've been wondering about the obscurity of the Tlatelolco massacre in English-language media for a long time. I used to attribute it solely (and I still consider it an important factor) to the fact that at the time, the Mexican PRI-ruled government was an ally of the US in its fight against communism in Latin America, and that as such the Americans wouldn't want to magnify such an atrocity committed by an allied regime.
Your answer taught me lots of things I didn't know about, and what surprised me the most is what you said about the President of the IOC's involvement in the whole affair, I'll definitely read more on this later Thanks again.
The journalists who were there were heavily international (and tv viewership topped at a whopping 600 million), so any US influence was mild at best, and the PRI managed to sell it as a “both sides” battle well enough for it to be swept under the rug.
The dissertation in my references is specifically about the IOC complicity and is freely available (just search the title).
Chris Marker's documentary Grin Without a Cat (or Le fond de l'air est rouge), which is about the political movements of the sixties mentions the massacre, and is well worth the watch.
I watched this ages ago when dailymotion was hosting a lot of counter cultural content. Nowadays I haven't been able to find a full version with English subs.
I've just googled both books you've mentioned. The first one does seem quite rare, but fortunately the second one is available as an ebook on the Kobo store and is very cheap. I'll definitely buy it when I get the change, but if you could type the relevant passage like you said I would be very grateful!
Possibly, but I've never seen it in any primary source as a rallying point for the US at the time -- it certainly seems like it could have been? The Weather Underground blew up a Haymarket memorial in October '69 (to a policeman that died) and then later that same month had their "Days of Rage" protests where 8 people were shot.
I should also add there were other obstacles here just from reporters being detained and injured (a good chunk of the narrative is from an Italian reporter who was shot and dragged by the hair).
That doesn't _quite_ apply to this event, which had a multitude of reporters due to the Olympics (I don't know how many from the US, but I know NBC had a person there) but that British newspaper columnist is the only one who managed a next-day story in English.
The tech was there -- I wrote in my answer about how the satellites were ready by '67 and used for the actual Olympics by many networks across the world. They were just set to broadcast the sports, not the protests the week before.
re: law enforcement deficiencies, maybe, but it'd be in unreleased documents. Remember, the public claim was that it was Communists that started the shooting.
The general in the plaza was wounded but not killed. And Oropeza was a second general (not supposed to be involved) who allegedly put the agents there (this story is, as I mention, still under contention).
(Film was still possible, and there is a film by a local documentarian, El Grito, but it was straight-up banned until much later, and wouldn't have had any international exposure, which is what the question was asking about.).