You need to find out if you are in network or out of network with the provider who did the delivery and the facility where the delivery occurred (just because one is in, that has nothing to do with the other). At this point you are going to need to contact the primary insurance and likely submit a retro authorization and go through the appeals process. Keep any records from the original submission. Try and find a copy of the original CMS1500 form as well, it should have been submitted by the Healthcare provider. Check the CPT (procedure codes) codes and see what services were billed, if the same provider did all of the care, you should see 59400 (this includes prenatal care,, delivery, and postpartum care for 90 days post delivery) with an ICD10 (diagnosis code) code of something like Z34.90. That is going to be the primary charge you need covered. I know less about the facility side of things, so I can't speak too much about it. Keep records of the representatives name and call reference number every time you speak to someone, also make notes about everything they say. You will most likely need to write a letter for the appeal, follow the guidelines and timeframes they give you, include any claim numbers, call reference numbers, and the appeal number if they give you one initially. Keep any Explanation of Benefits, EOB, which should go over the charges, covered amounts, allowable amounts, etc. It shouldn't matter that the newborn wasn't added, at the time services were rendered they were covered. Claims typically have 1 year to be submitted but that does vary company by company and state by state. I owned and operated a medical insurance billing company focused on out of hospital deliveries for about 7 years, I've fought this fight many times. You don't always win and it will take some time, but be patient, keep records, and stick to their timelines or you will get nothing.
If nothing else call the doctor from the visits and ask about programs for uninsured during that time.
Contact the consumer division of the Virginia Department of Insurance. They will review the policies and help you navigate which policy should cover the infant. If they feel you are not being treated appropriately, they will advocate for you (this service is at no charge to consumer.).
NAL . A lot of insurance plans will cover x days post birth on the mothers by default NOT because they wee added. Double check your wives policy on this. Also check pay deductions. Did either of you pay for a plus 1. If so make sure to bring that up. ( ie took payment therefore expected to be in good standing ). Also check what state your plans are registered to . Are both your plans virgina ( several states I worked in had my plan manged out of state due to head quarters) Of the 4 states I worked in none had the default birthday rule, though individual companies would require it. If it is a company specific policy and not a State policy you may have an easier time covering the time.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.