Half is more than reasonable (in my opinion), but be warned that some states do have legislation that would allow your ex to file suit to claim damages since you're the one that caused said damages. So she could lawyer up and go after you in court. Although maybe not for only $6k, it depends. And the damages would have be demonstrable; i.e. non-refundable deposits etc. In particular, the wedding dress - is it actually already paid for? Has she tried selling it? (kindof doesn't matter what happens to that, if she's paid for it in full).
BUT, if she does lawyer up and sue, you can also petition the court to get your ring back, so... My point is you should be taking it somewhat seriously. But a lawyer in your area would probably spend 15 mins on the phone and give you an idea of what your options are and what likely outcomes would be, its worth a call.
You're the cause of the damages, you're likely going to be footing the bill for a portion if not a majority chunk of this.
If you end up paying for it all, make sure you get the dress back (since you would have paid for it) and you can sell it to try and recoup some of the costs. Don’t let her sell it if you’re the one paying for it.
She wouldn't need to "lawyer up." This is squarely in small claims court territory in /u/greasemissle's state, and it costs only $70 to file, which she can ask the court to make him reimburse. Your question about how/why the engagement was broken will be key.
Unless you can prove somehow that the reason you called off the wedding was somehow due to something _she_ did?
I don't think this is right. Can you point to any such legislation? There could be some common law (i.e., judge/court made law) that is pertinent, but I still think she would have an uphill battle.
If she paid for it/agreed to pay for it with no agreement that you'd pay her back, she would have a tough time getting anything out of you. Take the dress for instance, did she tell you how much that would cost? Did she expect you to pay for it? If someone was throwing a fancy party and she bought a fancy dress for that particular party, but then the host canceled last minute, could she sue the host? I guess she could try--but it would be difficult.