No abortion, but we came to agreement to have it done. I'm worried about the false pretenses of saying she will use this money for one thing but spends it on another. I mean an abortion is certainly trackable and if she were to have the baby 8-9 months from now, that would prove that the money wasn't used for what I provided it to her for.
This thread got a little sidetracked by someone who looked at the question from the wrong angle and then, instead of saying "whoops, you're right" decided to double down on wrong. And me who couldn't leave it alone.
Still an issue; there is no civil cause of action for false pretense. Fraud, but that’s still going off the basic precept is a contract. I give you money so you get an abortion. If it’s void for public policy in Texas, LIKE IT IS IN NY AND NJ, it would not be enforceable and you would NOT be able to get your money back. The judge would NOT enforce the contract, I.e., here is money for an abortion.
Might a judge decide she wants no part of this and dismiss your suit? Absolutely. Though I maintain that's not an outcome to expect based in the law, it might absolutely happen.
You may have a claim for unjust enrichment (also a form of implied contract), but a judge may leave you in pari delicto.
I’ve been a litigator for a long, long time. Including contacts. I’ve served on the bench. You can go with someone who calls people buffoons, or care about your future Mr. OP.
It would be an interesting issue. While it is the simplest form of a contract, a court may find that such an agreement is void on public policy--especially in a state like Texas. I am not sure I agree 100% with you, but I am interested to hear more grounds for recovery.
There's no public policy issue here. Just money that was given for a specific thing that wasn't done.
OP's phrasing allows for room for this to be a more complicated discussion. Like that she did have the abortion but she didn't use the right money for it. In that case, money being fungible, there's no suit here.
No, I'm a lawyer--not a Roe v Wade hippy. Public policy is called law, and most states' common law expressly prohibit contracts void for public policy. For example, in some states surrogacy contracts are void for public policy.
Just because it is not in writing does not make it not a contract--that's why there is a statute of frauds for CERTAIN contacts... plenty of contracts can be without a writing.
I'm not talking at all about a contract to have an abortion. I'm talking about obtaining money under false pretenses. And you're still a complete buffoon.
False pretenses? Like criminal law with no private right of action? What the hell are you talking about? You keep making fun of me as a buffoon, but you are just slinging sh!t now. Quality contributor--you're the quality buffoon.