Surveyors have to be licensed. From my experience, they wouldn't risk their license for something like this.
If both (his and your) surveys come back in his favor then you'll either have to make a deal with him to rent the land or remove your property from his land.
If my drain isn’t to code, I’ll rip it right out of the ground and have a muddy trench moving sludge water into his yard. Our neighborhood has a drainage easement sloped in his direction. The water in my yard ends up in his yard regardless and by design. He knew this when he bought the house. The HOA representatives basically told us he’s just super annoying all of the time about everything. Honestly if I had known that I never would have built it. All the drain accomplished for us was a little bit less standing water for days after it rained and it wasn’t worth pissing him off.
If everything ends up in your favor and he still tries throwing a fit you can get an attorney to write a cease and desist. These letters carry absolutely no legal weight but it may scare him into backing off.
Are you worried about this? If the city comes out and says it is not to code then you will have to remedy the situation by either removing it or bringing it up to code.
I would also call your local code enforcement and ask specifically if a French drain requires a permit and if there are any requirements. You don't have to tell them you've already put it in.
It’s just causing so much unnecessary stress. I can probably get the fence moved for 1k. The builder has done a lot of work for us and might even remedy it for less than that. It’s not even a large area—literally less than 50 feet. So I’m not sure if it’s worth it to pay for a survey. And this is all assuming he’s correct which we have the HOA stating that he’s wrong about the property line.
I might fight it if he gets a survey back in his favor but I honestly think we’re a foot behind the property line. There’s a ditch from the street that is supposed to be the internal property line that is outside of our fence. We never would never have done anything intentionally improper.