To add additional color to my question, is there even a statue or a street named after him? I realize his campaign was insignificant compared to larger armies but is he viewed as a folk hero at all? Or is this just an invention of the book and movie?
While this might all sound a little silly, I mention it just to illustrate the reality that the story of Lawrence certainly is still told. And as I noted, the Turkish flags are visible on the replica and help to tell the story of that history. Though again, it’s hard to say if they’re trying to preserve the actual history OR the history that’s known through Hollywood. I’m not sure it’s really fair to make that conclusion, but I wanted to note the distinction.
I’m not sure what the level of historical qualification is to answer this specific follow up question, but I do apologize in advance if I don’t meet that threshold.
I am a tour operator in Jordan and so I can speak reasonably well to how Lawrence is perceived/treated today.
I’m not sure if there is a street named after him, though I would be inclined to think that somewhere there is, but Lawrence is quite a well known figure throughout the southern deserts of Jordan and absolutely discussed by the Bedouin people.
The Jordanian board of tourism and antiquities has included Lawrence in most of the official literature, maps, and other distributable items that tourists commonly receive when visiting the country. The alleged original home of TE Lawrence is a preserved site deep within the Wadi Rum protected area. In reality, there isn’t much left of what may have once stood there, but it’s absolutely a stop that all tourists going through the Wadi Rum desert will make. The base of the site is mostly a pile of rocks. They form some loose architectural layout, but I would argue it’s difficult for the average person to make much of a “house” out of what’s left. Still, the history is preserved.
There is also, however, a memorial to Lawrence at this site where people have been constructing cairns for many, many years. I’m sure you can easily find a picture of this online.
Finally, and this is a bit more of trivia than anything, but I think helps to answer your question some. Some people incorrectly assign TE Lawrence with modifying the riding style of the Bedouin, but it was actually Peter O’Toole - in a manner of speaking anyways. When they filmed Lawrence, O’Toole famously hated riding the animals (I believe camels, but perhaps donkeys too). In any event, a seat cushion was fabricated with material from Amman and added as a kind of saddle to the animals. It was much more comfortable and allowed O’Toole to sit more comfortably when filming for long hours. Bareback can be very uncomfortable, I’d imagine all the more so filming a movie and O’Toole was an actor, not a military leader like Lawrence. But this cushion of sorts was adopted by the Bedouin and they use such cushions to this day on their camels. All of the Bedouin I’ve ever met in the desert know the story of how those cushions first came to be. And while they were done for Hollywood and O’Toole, the fact that they were filming a movie for Lawrence certainly lets his legacy live on even further through the invention. Just one more thing to illustrate that he is certainly known there.
I don’t want to speculate, but I would guess there is some mention of Lawrence throughout Aqaba too, though I’m not familiar with it. But without a doubt, he is a known and talked about figure within the southern desert region and specifically within the larger Wadi Rum area.
There is an official map issued by the Jordanian government for the Wadi Rum desert and this map prominently displays something to the effect of “Original House of TE Lawrence”. My experience is that all of the Bedouin in the area absolutely know about Lawrence and his contribution to their history, though I’m not certain just HOW knowledgeable they are to what he did or if he just kind of lives on as a folk hero of sorts.
In addition to his site within Wadi Rum and the Jordanian government’s acknowledgement of him throughout their tourism material, a replica of the famous Turkish train that was ambushed is also a common stop along the tourist track. It even flies Turkish flags on it. It’s my understanding that the original train itself can be found deeper in the desert, apparently still in the condition it was left, but I’ve never personally seen it. The replica train, by contrast, is constructed to have the passenger cars as well as the defense cars. There are sandbags and machine gun mounts on those defensive cars. In fact, the train can even be rented for occasions and they will load guns into it and fire them into the desert.
This might be something to write up as you have an excellent opportunity to talk to locals? TE Lawrence has an ambiguous relationship with history in the west since Lowell Thomas published With Lawrence in Arabia. He role was first lionised and then later it was punctured in modern accounts by historians attempting to correct the record. Unfortunately, apart from Faisal we know little of what the Arab tribes themselves thought of him.
More interesting still is how that perception varies depending upon who you ask. And while I know that goes for anything, I think it’s unique in this case given the nomadic tribes.
To the extent that the scope of what he did is known by all of the locals, I’m not 100% sure. But that he was a historical figure who played a significant role in their history is very well known by people in the area and certainly discussed in a historical sense with visitors to the area.
There is a perception that the west tends to have about “The Bedouin”, but the breakdown of tribes within the Bedouin is significant in itself. I have a variety of friends who come from different tribes and admittedly, they DO talk about Lawrence a little differently. Outside of tours I’ve run, I’m not sure it’s something they would think to get into. But when I’ve asked, they can certainly speak to it.
Again, I hope this meets the threshold for a response. The information is all first-hand and I felt is pretty straightforward and demonstrable to anybody who is very familiar with the area that Lawrence had operated within.
One of Lawrence's tasks was to map the different tribes and their relationships (a valuable work that was then ignored by Sykes-Picot). Several other British worked on the Arab revolt and had high level access but he worked with the tribes.
But I’d be very curious to get the point of view from those different tribes and how the history affected them in different ways leading to those perceptions they hold today.
Perhaps I will pursue that endeavor when I’m able to return to Jordan for an extended period of time (technically I can right now, but it’s a difficult time with covid and so I haven’t).
That’s a really great idea actually and something I’d be very inclined to take on. I’ve spent a great deal of time in the area and have made many friends there over the years, several who I keep in regular contact with over WhatsApp and social media.
A dear friend of mine (who is considerably older than me) actually grew up in Jordan. His father started a school in Amman long ago and so he spent his childhood there. While he’s every bit as white as I am, he speaks Jordanian Arabic perfectly. I can’t tell you how many times locals will stop us. Their eyes get big and they are so curious as to how he can do this.
I'm hoping that I'll be able to get back to Jordan later this year. And if not, I may just bite the bullet and do it anyways - it'll require a lot more effort and money with covid protocols. But anyway, whenever I figure it out, I will definitely start considering some of these ideas .
It is also interesting that during the more modern conflicts, many from the armed forces used Seven Pillars as a way to understand the mindset.
I don't know about video and some Arab tribes are famously reticent, but essentially you are collecting their stories as they tell it to you. At least try to get the sound recorded even if it needs an Arab speaker to understand it. I think your access puts you in a great position to learn something.
There are plenty of westerners who speak Arabic, but almost never without a foreign accent of some kind. He is, however, truly bilingual in that sense.
In addition to the Jordanian Arabic, he’s also spent time learning the Bedouin Arabic over the years. Consequently, we’ve been invited into many inner circles and it’s always been a real treat. My Arabic isn’t nearly as good, but they’re every bit as welcoming to me - and I think appreciate my love and knowledge of the country, culture, and history.
So per your question, I tried a little bit to get into that within my response, but was also trying very hard to (a) not speak beyond my level of knowledge (speculate) and (b) not speak in any kind of inflammatory or insensitive manner, particularly because I do NOT have a full grasp of some cultural issues that might come into play with a figure like Lawrence. So this might get a little disjointed, but I'll try to share some accounts I've heard.
I would guess that because of this, we’d actually be able to get a number or people to open up to us. I suspect many wouldn’t want to be identified on camera, but would otherwise have no problem providing us with very honest and direct thoughts on Lawrence and the story as a whole.
All of that to say that I think part of reason that the story of Lawrence might change is just because theres such a huge difference between what people might learn. Nuanced history is probably not first and foremost in their curriculums when you factor their practical needs to get jobs. And then on the national front, I'm not sure exactly how much they would go into the British empire playing a role in their development. Just to say, I'm not sure that there would be a huge drive from many people to think to ask about him like we might (and are in this very thread).