It's impossible to answer for all people, obviously, but my students find 20th century history most _relevant_. It's an explanation of how the world that we live in directly got to be the way it is. Obviously history is continuous — the 14th century is _also_ part of the explanation of how the world got to be the way it is — but the more recent the history, the more seemingly apparent the relevancy. Separately, because the 20th century is so proximate, it does not require nearly as much "work" to make sense of. Trying to make sense of the 14th century is non-trivial, to use my arbitrary example: it's _so_ vastly different from the present that it truly does feel like a "foreign country." Making sense of, say, the fear of Catharism, requires a lot more background work than does making sense of, say, the fear of Communism. And even the latter is becoming difficult for students born in the 21st century to understand!
World War II is of particular interest, I believe, for a few reasons. One is that it did set up much of the "modern world" in its aftermath. The other is that it has been so valorized and riffed-on in our cultural legacy that it is in some ways quite familiar. It has been turned into a simplistic "good versus evil" conflict on a grand scale, in a way that both earlier and later conflicts have not been (they tend to be depicted as shades of gray). It has become part of our cultural archetypes (at least in the West) for thinking about just war, the price of struggle, and the depth of human depravity. So it resonates in a way that, say, the Korean War does not.
One thing I would add here is that we also have vastly more sources and media for the 20th century than even for the previous century.
Lastly, I would note that in my experience when it comes to "what are laymen interested in?" (as someone who does a lot of scholarship for laymen), part of the answer is: "they like things that extend knowledge they already have." Which is to say, it's a lot easier to say, "you already know about N, but now, here's N+1" As opposed to saying, "you know about N, but here's X, something totally different" The latter takes a _lot_ more work to assimilate into one's mind, and that's why you see so many new history students (on here and elsewhere) asking how on earth historians hold so much information in their head (it's because when you start, you are starting from scratch; as you persist, it becomes an N+1 situation, which is very easy to adapt to). So the most publicly potent things I write are the ones that take a character or event that a large number of people already have associations with (World War II, the atomic bombings, Richard Feynman and Albert Einstein, etc.) and then contrive to add a new spin or take on them (which adds novelty). "You thought it was this way, but it turns out it was really this other way" is the most potent way to grab eyes a historian can do (and is not without its controversy, especially if you are — in the eyes of your audience — taking something cherished and showing it has a dark underbelly).
All of these things naturally, I would theorize, culminate in exactly the sort of phenomena you are describing: that when laymen become interested in history it is typically in the history of things they already know something about, and look like they have obvious relevance to their present-day lives and world. Of course, there are plenty of other reasons to be interested in history, and one also finds those reflected to — some people prefer the almost escapism of very-long-ago history, which serves a somewhat different social function, I think.
It's really the first time that any societies approached things like universal literacy, which means you get things like letters and diaries. Richard J. Evans worked with a lot of diaries and private letters from Nazi Germany to get a sense of what regular people were thinking and feeling during the period, and Omer Bartov used things like letters from the Eastern Front to demonstrate how deeply German soldiers were implicated in war crimes and the Nazi worldview. Even if we go back to, say, the Napoleonic Wars or American Revolution there's just a drastic drop off in those sorts of sources. When we go back to the Medieval period or Antiquity, it's an even bigger dropoff: for example, when we commonly talk about particular events in ancient Greece or Rome, we might be relying on one single source (which will invariably be a highly literate member of the elite), who may or may not have been working off of other sources no longer extant, and who may have been writing hundreds of years after the events in question.
And of course none of that gets into the technical advances in media: the 20th century has a wave of films, photos, audio recordings, among many other things (such as personal memories or direct conversations with people who lived through events) that makes it all much more immediate and accessible than earlier eras. There seem to be a lot of questions here on the sub to the effect of "Why are Medieval drawings so weird?" and that should give an indication of how much harder it is for modern audiences to even engage with source materials from other periods, even on a pictorial level.
Actually one more thought I'd like to tack on: I don't think the trend of intense interest in 20th century history has always been the case, although this gets slightly anecdotal.
I think for a lot of people who actually lived through the 20th century, even if they thought they were living through "history" it was often something that they had to get through and often didn't want to talk about or dwell on. My grandmother, for example, was a teacher who was interested in history and lived through a good 80% of the 20th century, and absolutely hated modern history, avoiding anything after the Tudors or so wherever possible.
Even in terms of Soviet history itself, there's a big divide between what has usually treated as "current events" or some sort of social science and what was treated as "history", and the shift to actually studying the Soviet Union as "history" proper has probably really only gotten up to the 1960s or so.
That's just one example but it does make me think of how history was handled in the Soviet Union. The more modern history got, the more political it became, meaning it often became propaganda or rote memorization in schools, or began to get into highly charged territory that literally could be dangerous for your health if you'd ask the wrong questions. "Safe" history, that was also history that professionals could practice with a reasonable modicum of academic independence, tended to be things like ancient civilizations or even archaeology. And those fields saw real advances: Soviet archaeology is exceptionally important for, say, understanding Central Asian history, and Yuri Knozorov did important work in deciphering Maya glyphs in the 50s and 60s, despite it not catching on in the rest of the international academic community until the 1990s.
When I ask my parents,they always tell that they hated Soviet history back in school as they had to memorize practically every Bolshevik meeting that happened before and during the Revolution. From personal experience (growing up in a Post-Soviet county), one topic that was beloved by the Soviets was the Napoleonic Wars. To this day, there's more chapters dedicated to this era than to WW1 in our high school textbooks. Why do you think there was such a fascination for Napoleon?
I think the "N+1 versus X" is very relevant too. It reminds me a bit of the idea of an audience surrogate character in stories. It's just easier for an audience to engage, even if being exposed to a completely new world and new characters, if there is some base figure that they can relate to on some level.
Specifically around World War I, there has been a big revision in the history of that war and specifically Russia's place and role in it. For much of the Soviet period it was more-or-less overlooked as just a prelude to the October Revolution, which was the true World Changing Historic Event (in comparison, who cares about some squabble between capitalists over imperialist possessions?). Now that the Soviet period itself is an era with a definable beginning and end, there has been a lot of re-contextualizing Russia's place in the war, and not only among Russian historians but western ones as well (so there's been stuff like David Stone's The Russian Army in the Great War and Dominic Lieven's The End of Tsarist Russia which treat Russia pre-1917 on its own terms and not just a prelude to the Bolsheviks).
As for the Napoleonic era, why it got more coverage I think boils down to a few factors: 1) it was the original 'Patriotic War" (Отечественная война) which the "Great Patriotic War" of 1941-1945 echoed even in its name, and was thus a national-patriotic defense of the homeland that could be divorced from bigger ideological questions, 2) it got big coverage in Tolstoy's War and Peace, which was widely read and adapted to other media, and so it had (and still has) an outsized place in the Russian cultural landscape, and 3) connected with that, especially in the Soviet period it kind of fit with a Soviet outlook. I'm thinking how specifically in Bondarchuk's film version of War and Peace in the narration they even make a point of talking about how Napoleon was leading a coalition of Western Europeans to invade Russia. Which is kind of accurate! But also a "hint, hint, NATO" sort of way to describe the event. It especially helps with the Napoleonic history that Russia won and played a big role in unseating him, so much like World War II it has a stronger place in historic memory for that.