I can speak primarily from the perspective of Eastern Europe, which didn't have as many plate armoured units as Western Europe did, but sword (especially longswords) surely had its usage against armour, preferrably for thrusting between the gaps of armour plates (). Hopefully other Redditors can fully answer regarding the Western part. Also it is very important to remember that amount of knights in full plate armour in a single battle usually wasn't very high: they were invauables resources best used sparingly, and it was very possible that amount of heavy cavalrymen to be below 100 men or so \[1\], thus they sometimes had to use weapons against different kinds of targets, same for their enemies - they often didn't have enough armour-breaking tools so had to use what was available.
I'd say that beneath or above are not the terms a person has to consider when he's surrounded from all sides knowing that the enemy doesn't want to take prisoners.
Not everybody who isn't a knight on the battlefield was a peasant. In 15th century a lot of European armies employed big quantities of more lightly armoured mercenaries and men at arms which usually were much more numerous than heavy knight cavalry. Also don't forget Eastern opponents Medieval Europe had to face which usually were more lightly armoured \[2\].
Still, it is important to understand that full plate armour was very expensive and very effective before mass produced firearms made it history, there weren't "right" ways to deal with it on a daily basis as these knights were pretty rare and formiddable opponents. Even hammers and axes could be ineffective, but generally they were more preferrable option compared to swords. This also includes Eastern European powers when they had to engage knights in combat, as Bec De Corbin was very popular weapon for mounted combat (, although it's from 17th century) \[2\]. So no, swords weren't useless at all, but knights usually carried different weapons with them - for different needs.
This is somewhat incorrect. Sabers coexisted with straight straight swords for many centuries, although you probably can say that "typical" Medieval swords indeed later fell out of grace.
I suppose that users experienced with mercenaries in Western Europe can add more info to my answer, but mercenaries en masse weren't noblemen. Their "profession" was simply using their skills with weapon to earn their pay, although a son born in a campaign will have high chance to continue his father's cause. Mercenaries could theoretically come from many different backgrounds, including former bandits, experienced militiamen or landless knights, but there usually weren't many differences between them: these people received money and/or preferences from their employers (Italian city-states were especially notorious for using mercenaries in wars), and in case they couldn't get their pay in time it wasn't out of ordinary for them to take it by force. Beginning with relatively small (dozens to several hundreds of men) bands with simple organization in late 13th and early 14th century, they would soon grow to be a very formiddable force on European battlefield \[1\]. 14th and 15th century Italy was literally swarmed by roaming mercenary companies. Bands and companies were usually organized by an experienced war leader who would recruit and often even train and provide equipment for his peers, then sign contracts to serve specific purposes for specific periods of time. They were often uncontrollable and unreliable, but proved to be very effective soldiers, and no one would decline their offers if they want to have balance of power shifted in their favour.
Mercenaries often had different origins in regards to the country they serve: Italy of 14th and 15th century predominantly featured southern Germans, Spanish, French and British nationalities, while northern Germans and Scots were very popular in Eastern Europe in later centuries \[2\].
I didn't make it clear enough, by "evolution" I meant evolution of weapon preference for personal protection, not that straight swords evolved into Sabres.
But it's something a knight class had to somewhat think about considering their status symbol. It just wouldn't make much sense to have a nobles-only weapon being viable to fight only against commoners. Especially cosidering the obsession with status and decorum in that time, when defeating your equals and scoring "glory" points seemed to be the main concern of an individual in the battle (as chances of death were often relatively not that high for a nobleman).