Overwhelmingly, it's a legally horrible idea for two unmarried people to both be on the deed but only one on the mortgage, and also vice versa, both on the mortgage but only one on the deed. These are preambles to disaster. That aside, since you want that preamble, the lender dictates what they will accept. Don't try to get around that, it would be mortgage fraud.
I want to know if it's a legal issue or one of policy because I have been advised that getting another lender might be the right course to do this. If it's a lender policy issue I can find a lender who will allow it, if it's a legal prohibition there's no point.
It will be. It's not illegal to be on the deed without being on the mortgage/note, or vice versa. But trying to do that can trigger a clause where the entire mortgage is due at once, in some situations. It's a situation requiring a lot of careful planning.
In the event you go bankrupt and can't pay the mortgage, and the bank wants to foreclose on the house, what do you want to happen to your friend's ownership of the house?
My assumption is that my friend would be equally subject to any foreclosure (IE they lose their property if I don't pay). I also assumed that this particular scenario might give my friend standing to sue me in that case.
They can sue you, yes. They can sue you for a partition sale, for example, and have a court sell the house at auction (which is never top dollar). They can start renting out a bedroom to homeless people. They can invite anyone they want to live there. They could turn it into a daycare center. Being on the deed is mightily powerful. This is all even if they are on the mortgage, not being on the mortgage.
It's a little more complicated, but this is also why lenders don't want to do it. If the friend isn't on the mortgage, then their share of the home isn't necessarily up for grabs if the lender wants to foreclose. The won't want to paint themselves into a corner. In theory, you could lose your share of the house but the friend would keep theirs. It's just unlikely any lender will let you do what you want to do.
As others have said, these are the same thing, or essentially the same thing. The mortgage note is how you get on the mortgage. Sort of like a plane tickets is how you get on a plane. You can't buy a plane ticket, not get on the plane, and then claim to be in Denver in four hours. Maybe a poor analogy, more like showing I.D. is the analog to executing.
Thank you, I'm definitely not clear on the appropriate terminology and that was one of the reasons I was reaching out for help here. So in order to convey ownership but not responsibility for the payments I would want my friend to sign the deed of trust (security instrument linked above?) and nothing else?