I can't advise you on how to go about it legally, I just wanna say that something similar happened to me when I got into a car accident.
Was going through an intersection, guy runs a red light and hits me in the left front quarter panel. Totals the car. Luckily I was on the clock, and I worked for the municipality at that point in time so it wasn't my car either. After the whole incident, nothing happened. The other driver pretended to be hurt until a witness testified against him. I wasn't hurt either. I thought it was all done, city dealt with it on our end and whatnot.
This is precisely what a lot of lawyers do. I do it for collections cases that have been filed against people sometimes if my caseload is low. But generally, with PI cases, you’ll see it A LOT. I recommend you look into lawyers on your own - you can even call your local bar association and ask for a referral. Many PI lawyers do have chiropractors etc. that they refer their patients to - generally they have a good working relationship with them and know their recordkeeping processes, etc. - but you’re free to see any doctor you want no matter what attorney you go with.
About a week later I got cold called by a chiropractic office asking if I would like to be examined. WTF??
Also, a good deal of PI lawyers work on contingency. I recommend going with one of them. An hourly, unless he or she is VERY good, is probably not what you want for this.
As you can see, you can solicit clients in writing as long as you follow the rules for advertising (required disclosures, etc.). You just can’t do it via phone or in person.
But isn’t cold calling, as OP was talking about, illegal? Rule 7.3 states “[a] lawyer shall not by in-person, live telephone or real-time electronic contact solicit professional employment…”.
Lawyers and other interested parties probably go through public record and make cold calls a lot, especially when business has been slow. I get that it's public record and all but it kinda bothers me a lot and I wanted to complain, lol.
(1) the person being solicited has made known to the lawyer a desire not to be solicited by the lawyer;.
Uh… solicitation is legal. As long as you do the proper advertising language on the correspondence, it’s perfectly permissible in my jurisdiction.
(a) A lawyer shall not by in-person, live telephone, or real-time electronic contact solicit professional employment when a significant motive for the lawyer's doing so is the lawyer's pecuniary gain, unless either of the following applies:
(2) the person contacted has a family, close personal, or prior professional relationship with the lawyer.
(b) A lawyer shall not solicit professional employment by written, recorded, or electronic communication or by in-person, telephone, or real-time electronic contact even when not otherwise prohibited by division (a), if either of the following applies:
(3) the lawyer knows or reasonably should know that the person to whom the communication is addressed is a minor or an incompetent or that the person's physical, emotional, or mental state makes it unlikely that the person could exercise reasonable judgment in employing a lawyer.
In most areas there are lawyers that specialize in bicycle accidents- many of them are cyclists themselves.
/r/cycling or /r/bicycling might be able to recommend one. You can also ask a local bike shop for a recommendation.
The wording of your reply made it seem like you were referring to cold calling, but I take it you send mailers, etc.
ETA: And yes, I do mailers. Not often anymore because my practice has exploded but it’s a last resort if I’m running very low on work. My mother does it for foreclosures/bankruptcies as well.