Actually, quite a few ruins and old roman roads exist along with the hadrian wall. Also some parts of london still have ruins, such as the Billings bathhouse.
Furthermore, roman settlements on Britain were rather few. Londinium was a good example. But it got deserted as there were very few resources to maintain such a large town. This was again due to the decline of roman logistical lines, so the city got largely deserted and many buildings fell to ruin.
Farmsteads and villas, however, got destroyed over time as subsistence farming replaced the industrial farming of Rome after the Roman occupation of Britain stopped under Constantine the third around 410. And since Roman building style required logistic lines that extended far into the mediterranean, there were very little resources to "rebuild" or "maintain" roman structures. Marble was not found in large quantities locally. Bathhouses (another very roman building) also relied on high-maintenance aquaducts to supply them. So these buildings fell in disuse and disrepair.
In short, there were no resources to maintain the buildings and there also weren't that many settlements.
Lundenwich is a good example of the decline and the consequences. Lundenwich was founded quite near the old city of Londinium. This town, however, relied on small trade and subsistence farming. The town of Londinium, now London, was actually deserted and only the old ports were used in very small amounts. London was only reinhabited properly about 500 years after the occupation stopped when Britain started becoming more united under Alfred the Great and his sons.
This was quite an interesting read, but something I want to know, you mentioned bathouses also required high-maintenance aqueducts, if there was an aqueduct that supplied londinium (which I'm guessing was the case) has there been any ruins discovered of an aqueduct in London? Like roman aqueducts were so huge there must be some traces of it somewhere in modern day London.
This is a good example of why and how the old buildings did not survive. There were no supplies to maintain them. So only the "low maintenance" buildings such as roads and 'lucky' buildings stayed alive after these hundreds of years.