Very likely, yes. If they are both on the deed together, they are both presumed to own 50% of the house. Nothing changes that. Your boyfriend can speak to a real estate attorney about trying to claw back the repairs he put into the house, but I would prepare yourself to hear it's not worth it and it's cheaper to buy her out.
Who pays for what when it comes to real estate does not impact ownership shares unless that is explicitly stated and agreed to by both parties. It's perfectly common, for example, for two people to inherit a property, one person assumes all costs associated with the property in exchange for use of the property, and the other person silently keeps their interest in the home as an investment. Your boyfriend's situation is no different. He paid for everything, but he also had exclusive use of the property. Be prepared to hear that a 50/50 split is his best option.
I'm hoping this is a case where may apply. Either in the case of her not having made many contributions, or my contributions within the last 2 years.
If any palimony/cohabitation co-ownership applies, it applies exclusively to your bf's share of the house. So, at best, the breakdown would be 50/25/25. You simply cannot water down or reduce a person's ownership share of a property without their involvement or consent. That would be stealing.
Your bf should not be stunned. This is a major investment, and she's treating it with the seriousness that any person should. You're trying to argue likely over far less of an amount than she is, so you really should not be shocked at all that she doesn't want to take low-ball offers when you're trying to claw back less than what you're asking her to walk away from.
Unfortunately they have absolutely nothing written down and my boyfriend is stunned because he apparently did not anticipate this at all. He said she's never acted like this ever.
She had no interest in owning the home and when she left told him it was his. He should have gotten it in writing, but that is why he is stunned. She hasn't even put $20k into this property. $40k is enough to pay her student loans and leave her some extra.
Absent any agreements on division of equity, she's entitled to 50%. In your situation, you're not on the deed, so absent any agreement btwn you and your BF, you're likely entitled to nothing if you two split and you move out (unless you're on the deed).
Honestly, you're being incredibly disrespectful to her, and if you keep this up, you're likely to find her even more difficult to work with in the future. You're not entitled to any of her share of the house just because you got with her ex and put money into a property you don't own. That's between the two of you, not her, and you shouldn't expect her to walk away from money just to make it easier for the two of you. This is her investment, and likely a major one. She did well, and she's entitled to all the due profits from her investment so that she can invest them elsewhere.
Again, it's not that I really want to be entitled to anything, but if it helps him get the share that he deserves for actually shouldering, putting work into and paying all of the bills for the house, I feel that's fair.
Am I understanding wrong when it indicates in cases like this, "in the absence of such evidence, only the actual monetary contributions of each partner might be considered in terms of determining ownership, even if title to the property is jointly held?".
I don't think he will be working with her much in the future after this. As I've said, we intend to contact a lawyer ASAP. She hasn't put anything into the house in several years. He replaced the roof and main waterline on his own, because she explicity told him she wasn't interested in the house. Agree to disagree who is being disrespectful to who in this case.
It would apply and your BF would have to demonstrate that in court if the ex still insists on 50% or won't agree to anything lower. Which is why he should speak to a lawyer.