Mentioned in the text. School wants a psych eval for services placement. Parents each have valid arguments for their view on its face. However, these two have a long history of not coming to these issues in good faith. It's more power play right now.
I'm stuck in the middle as I'm currently working with the student as a subject matter tutor. I have to deal with both parents. Both are asking what they should do.
Legally if they cannot agree and the court order doesn't allow one side to decide alone, it goes back to court.
Thank you for expanding on why the school might be requesting an evaluation. I really appreciate it and will encourage both parents to reach out to the school for more explanation.
I'm independent and outside the school system. I have no licensure at stake. I'm just a long time friend of the family tutoring because I care about the child.
I forgot to add, legally, a parent can refuse any assessment such as the psych eval. They can accept all other evaluations that could include social work, OT, speech, etc. However, refusing the psych eval could mean there is important information about the child that is missed. People hear psych eval and think it means the school thinks their kid is “crazy” but that is not the case. It can help diagnose underlying issues such as anxiety that impact the child’s ability to perform well in school. Once the reasons why a child is not performing well academically they can receive support to help them. With out it students can face life long impacts with very negative outcomes. It shouldn’t be about power plays but what can we do to help our child. Unfortunately, I am not unfamiliar with situations like you describe and see the very real and very negative long term consequences.
If the school is requesting and evaluation for an IEP there is likely something significantly different with the child’s behavior, functioning, or educational performance compared to grade level peers. A psych eval is a very normal part of the IEP process and will look at different areas such as IQ and “screen” for things like a learning disability, autism, depression, ADHD, etc. Many parents are do not understand the IEP process and many schools don’t take the time to explain it to them in layman’s terms. While getting in the middle of drama is not ideal, perhaps you can let them know that they can contact the school to ask them to explain the IEP process to them and that may resolve the issues they are having.
The best advice seems to be one of them has to petition the court. Neither is likely to, though. So I don't know how the school, or anyone, moves this off the dividing line.
Thank you for the information. I'm not the one to move this off the stalemate myself. But I can advise both parents that they either need to come to an agreement or file a petition. Neither can afford a lawyer nor are either likely to attempt to file pro se in my opinion.