This one looks at the partial destruction of the pyramid from a slightly different angle, so it's definitely worth reading as well!
Yeah, from what I understand they were pretty much ignored for most of the Islamic period (and plundered for building material - the pyramid of Khafra still has its limestone cap because they never got up that high). The outer material was nice and polished; the pyramid Al-Aziz Uthman went after was covered in dark granite, which had been brought in from Aswan because it's not found locally, so the stone was extremely valuable. The inner building blocks weren't that interesting to anyone because they were big and heavy and consisted of the local bedrock.
Since then, no one has seriously suggested that the monuments should be demolished; occasionally someone will mouth off in a sermon and get attacked by everyone else for saying it. In fact, the Islamist insurgency of the late 80s and early 90s came to an abrupt end when a tourist group was shot at the temple of Hatshepsut (Deir el-Bahri) in 1996; people who had been willing to support the movement turned sharply against them for attacking foreigners and harming the tourist industry upon which so many locals rely for their livelihood.
Once mass tourism became a thing in the 19th century, the ancient sites became much more important in the Egyptian psyche (Donald Malcolm Reid's Whose Pharaohs?, while academic, is a very engaging read about how the Egyptians and Europeans engaged in a tug-of-war over who should be the caretaker of "human patrimony").
Huh, this was mentioned in Ibn Khaldun's Muquaddimah, where later dynasties are unable to tear down and destroy many great architectural monuments of preceding dynasties, like the Reception Hall of Khosraw and the arches of the Malga at Carthage. The latter had to be dismantled by parties to even get a small portion. Chapter IV, Part 4:
Thank you for the addition, Welf I have now added that answer to the parent comment, so it's a little more visible.
Just for funsies, I pulled out Andre Raymond, who was The Guy on Cairo history, and the pyramids don't even merit a mention until almost the Napoleonic invasion. Obviously, people knew they were there, but they just don't seem to have been all that important to the residents of Cairo between its founding in 969 and the late 18th century.
They were well outside of the city (Cairo didn't expand westward to the banks of the Nile until the 19th century; it was all marshland that had to be drained). There was no bridge across the Nile - Giza at the time was a small village of a few hundred people on the banks of the Nile, and the site of the Pyramids themselves were on the edge of the desert about 15 km further west. Just getting out there and back would have taken almost a full day.