Great question! I can't really speak to their ubiquity in modern pop culture, but here are a few reasons why the pirates of the "Golden Age" of piracy were so popular in their time:
The first reply to this is great, and though I’m answering very late(I’ve been getting into Piracy lately), I think another big thing to mention are the roaming grounds of the pirates during the golden age. The two biggest pirate strongholds in this era from 1650-1730 were the West Indies/Florida and West African Coast. Both places have beautiful water and strange but wonderful looking plant and animal life on land and sea. These places are far more exotic than Europe and they no doubt contribute to the popularity of pirates. A major appeal of the Pirates of the Carribean movies are the places the crew travels to. Port Royal in the first movie looks gorgeous. Much like how Cowboys are very popular in pop culture as well, the Caribbean was sparsely settled until well into the 19th century. The lawless feel of the Golden Age of Piracy makes it feel like a western on water to many readers.
Check out Enemy of All Mankind by Steven Johnson. Long story short, Henry Every and his crew sailed to the Indian Ocean where they raided Mughal ships in transit to Mecca (for pilgrimage). By most reliable accounts, upon capturing the Ganj-i-Saway, the pirates spent days robbing, torturing, and raping the occupants, supposedly including female relatives of the Grand Mughal. Rather than being shunned as barbaric criminals, their exploits were re-imagined to portray them as valiant heroes back in England. Two decades later, the story of the ‘Robin Hood-esque’ Every inspired a new round of pirates who had grown up hearing stories of Every’s adventures and heroics.
Similarly, on a visual level, I think the Golden Age being near the high point of the Age of Sail contributes a great deal. Many people find these kinds of ships to be stunning, fearsome and elegant at the same time. They perfectly compliment the roaving grounds that the pirates occupied.