Well if I won the appeal like my co-defendant did (which he also agreed on a plea deal and took probation) and got the charges dropped i could actually legally own guns, that's the biggest one.
Edit: also, I fired that attorney because he refused to appeal my case on another matter, I live in a town where all the court appointed attorneys work closely with the prosecution, to the point where they essentially work together to get 100% conviction rates. Also. The charge put on me was legitimately made up, they had no basis for the crime they charged me with. I was caught with the 2 oxycodone and firearm, but they charged me with conspiracy to deliver oxycodone when there was absolutely no proof or reason to think I was doing that, on top of the illegal search. The sheriff of our town was involved in misconduct for over 5 years imbezzling (proven) and planting evidence (suspected) to charge people with higher crimes than they were even guilty of, the whole county was corrupt for a long time. But, would you suggest that I get a lawyer from out of the county to help that way I'm more comfortable with how he/she defends me? I don't feel comfortable with any of the lawyers around here due to what I've just typed out.
Likely too late, what state are you in? Once you plea guilty and have already been sentenced there are very few circumstances where you can go back and change the plea. Just because your co-defendant did it doesn't mean you can do it.
I am a lawyer, not your lawyer, and you have no idea how many stories I hear like this about co-defendants beating things, defense and prosecution working together, etc. Not a single one of them has been true, ever. Obviously I don't know anything about you but it's quite unlikely everything you have stated is 100% true.
I promise you I'm being 100% transparent, his sister called me a week or two ago and let me know he beat his appeal, I live in Oregon, and everything I've stated is 100% the truth. I know for sure he beat it because she's his POA.