If you have a bona fide religious objection, talk to your priest or imam about how best to present it. You'll probably need a letter from them. If your school won't accommodate you, then talk to a lawyer (referrals from the Law Society of Ontario are a good place to start) about the possibility of a human rights complaint. Be prepared to work with the school on accommodations, such as wearing personal protective equipment or distance learning, if you cannot be vaccinated.
If your faith is a faith of one, and the only recognizable tenet is "I don't want to get the vaccine," then a human rights complaint over this is a non-starter. Your options are as the school is presenting them: get vaccinated, or withdraw from class. Mandatory vaccination in educational contexts is long-standing and completely unremarkable legally - we've been doing this in Ontario since polio was a thing.
Students enrolled in primary school must be vaccinated for a number of diseases, including measles, hepatitis B, and a range of other illnesses. That requirement has been in place for years. There are processes for religious exemptions there, too, but there absolutely is a vaccination mandate.
If you aren't part of an organized religion but have a long-standing and sincerely held personal religious belief, then have a lawyer draft the letter. They'll know how best to frame that against the requirements of Ontario's human rights laws.
Most people in my religious group have strong beliefs against the covid vaccine. I just feel that I don't need it, I'm healthy and I don't see the need for it. I have had other vaccinations previously but I don't trust the covid vaccine because it was rushed and it feels like it's being forced on the whole world and I'm not afraid of taking my chances for such a silly virus. I just want to finish my education, and not take two doses of mrna vaccine that has never been time tested yet.
Have you gotten other vaccines? If so your claim is likely to fall apart. You will have a very hard time arguing that you have a legitimate objection to this specific vaccine but will take others. If you only religious belief is "I get to choose what I do and when I do it" and there is nothing more your claim is likely to fail because that would be an unreasonable exemption from all laws.
It's fair enough if your parents were not of the same faith you are today, but either you got vaccinated then and your faith has changed, or you were not vaccinated because you were exempted, or you were not vaccinated because you were not educated. Which is it?
Then that's not going to work. You're not going to get a religious exemption because you don't like this vaccine but you're fine with the myriad others you've received up to this point. If you have a religious objection to vaccines, i.e., all of them, then that would pass muster. But saying "I just don't want to get the COVID vaccine because of personal freedom" seems highly unlikely to be granted.
That's not going to support a religious exemption, unfortunately. Religious exemptions have to do with requirements that follow from your faith, such as Jainism's mandatory vegetarianism or a Muslim's need to pray towards Mecca at specific times of day. "Don't feel" - even when based on your faith - isn't going to rise to that level.