The username and book title are both derived from the same thing, which is the special classification category given to nuclear weapons secrecy in the United States.
I’m writing an academic paper on how people cope with pandemics and how they remember them. I want to compare how people talked about the Spanish flu and how people talk about COVID-19 now. For the latter I made a survey. So, I wanted to ask your permission, before posting, if I could ask the people on this sub to fill out my survey (which takes about 5-8 minutes) so that I have as big of a focus group as I can get.
Done, although several mandatory questions I couldn't answer and thus defaulted to "3" (e.g., I never even see the other people living in this building, so how would I know what they do?).
Also, I was a bit surprised that you opted to use "sex" and not "gender." Did that have medical reasons?
Oh okay, understandable, but tbh I do the same when I can’t answer a mandatory question either. I appreciate you partaking anyway .
I submitted my biography for the contributors section of an edited collection. I also submitted an essay to a journal for a graduate student prize. I was among the final three, but I didn't win the prize. They did, however, "decide to take the unusual step" and asked me to revise and resubmit!
I‘m going to be honest, I didn’t know there was a difference? I don’t know anything about the LGBTQ+ community, I am supportive though (not monetary, more like „you do you and be happy with who you want to be“, I just don’t understand the differences and terms and what not).
Sex is generally used to refer to the biological sex, which is binarily defined by the presence of either male or female sexual reproductive organs (very few people are born with both, which would be the debatable case here).
Gender is understood to be socially constructed, and therefore detachable from the trappings of the human physiology. It refers to psychological perceptions of the self and the other, and the assumed social roles related to, and born out of, such perceptions. Just think about how, even thinking about “straight men,” how there’s “manly” men and “effiminate” men—and many other men—and how some define a “manly” man by the size of his muscles and others through behavioral attributes, such as courage, responsibility, or his willingness to punch people in the face (i.e., there's more than one kind of "manly" man).
Although the ideas of these various gender roles and stereotypes are in part shaped by the biological sex—and, for the definition of various types of homosexuality, transsexuality (etc.), by a person's sexuality in relation to sex—it’s a much more fluid concept, since there’s a lot of shades of gray possible.
Joan Scott’s essay "Gender: A Useful Category of Historical Analysis" is a pretty good introductory summary for historians, as is having read a bit of sociology of knowledge .