I'm not sure how your employer phrased it, but at hangers I've worked at, it was an "opportunity to gain hours which can allow you to test," not necessarily anything about teaching you specifically. If you want to learn things, I would look for a school certified under Part 147 to teach you/meet the hours requirements to test for the license. Many community colleges will have a 2 year program, and often employers will offer tuition reimbursement. If you're trying to get your ticket as quickly as possible, an A&P program at a school might be faster than the 30 months simultaneously, or the 18 months powerplant, AND 18 months airframe combo the regs require for OJT.
I would say, even if they sign off on your 30 months, I would REALLY REALLY be studying a lot, if all you're doing is cleaning etc, your O&Ps are not gonna be a fun time. The ASA prepware app is pretty solid for a study tool for writtens.
At the end of the 30 months I would have the right to go take my test. We were told and in the job description it said we would be taught. In reality the thing we do the most is clean aircraft. When I first interviewed I was told we would most likely spend 1-2 days a week in class then work the remainder of the week. We have only had a couple days of class time in the 18 months I've been there. It is because of the ambiguous 30 months served rule that I don't know if we have any legal options even though we were lied to about what we were going to be doing.
Have you brought it up with your lead, or whoever is supposed to be in charge of your program? If nothing else maybe they can get you on more varied job cards. Sounds like a raw deal if they said you'd be getting classroom type instruction and it never really panned out.
It's a tough pill to swallow, but, if you're working at the MRO i think you're working at, "doing it right," I'm almost certain they have tuition reimbursement program if you find a school near you. Spend 2 years busting your ass at work and school simultaneously. While that sucks to be going in 18 months behind where you want to be, it would also let you graduate with 2-3 years of experience, which is big, and, if they aren't really teaching you, is gonna make it less likely that you'll blow hundreds-thousands on your writtens/O&P exams when the time comes.