The weather / storms and oppressive heat will touch everyone as will ecological failure. We are already amidst a mass-extinction that’s seen 70% of all wildlife lost since the 1970’s. Make no mistake, we (humans) did this and it’s going to take Herculean efforts and massive engineering and scientific progress to dig ourselves out.
Oh but pretending like everything is fine and that all of the experts who have been ringing alarm bells about this issue for decades just what, shouldn't be listened to? We're actively seeing the tip of the iceberg (so to speak - they're rapidly melting) right now. Bigger storms more often, huge swaths of the planet literally ON FIRE, and when certain things get bad enough it literally releases a multiplier - like the permafrost melting in Siberia.
Maybe instead encourage people to vote only for leaders promising substantial steps to fight climate change? Or to start composting? To protest buying from certain mega corporations that are very responsible for these issues? Encourage people to sign up for groups that protest big oil and big ag and a host of other polluters?
It's not hopeless - we actually need to do something to stop it instead of staring at each other and shrugging.
I didn’t say everything was hopeless, we are just going to have to figure out how to live in a very different world. The balance of nature, resources, etc that our parents and grandparents grew up taking for granted is gone forever though.
It's not hopeless it's dire and the impacts will be severe on our health, habits and democracies. I plead you to sugar coat this for us, we need your voice.
🙄 How is your comment any more or less helpful? It feeds the right-wing narrative in a way. Know what else is discouraging? Being told you're overreacting and not offering fucking any solution.
Serious question: what is a pragmatic, achievable solution to climate change? All I ever see is people propping stuff that is never going to happen like that the world can just up and stop driving anywhere and replace everything with trains and busses as if everybody in the world lives in a city. What is an real, actual solution?