This comes off vague as far as 'highway patrol says there was no evidence that I was driving'. But ultimately the judge can interpret the facts as he sees fit. That's his role.
Because it seemed devoid of context. We don't have the full court case before us, so we can't really analyze the judge's decision in full. Even then, it doesn't really change the options available to you.
You'll just have to keep filing on the case if you can't afford an attorney. An ultimately will have to work out the court's schedule to get this done. But navigating the legal system as a non-attorney isn't a simple matter.
Innocent until proven guilty and the judge decided you were proven guilty based on the facts of the case in full. Clearly there was enough suspicion for the cop to arrest you, the prosecutor to charge you, and the judge to make a ruling.
Your recourse is to hire an attorney to challenge this or continue appealing yourself. I'm sorry if that's unsatisfying.
I mean no disrespect, but how is that vague?? I asked the officer, on the stand if there was ANY evidence I was driving or even in the truck… he said no…. How can I be found guilty, logically??? I’m so frustrated…. My mil got my truck stuck in the ditch beside my drive way (no damages) which my neighbors called the cops bc they thought it was a wreck(?)- they show up and see I’m drunk and call the Hwy patrol, an hour later he gets there, I’m arrested… in court, when it was my turn, I asked the officer “is there any evidence at all I was behind the wheel of my truck” he said. “No” isn’t that game over?? Innocent until proven guilty? How can you convict anyone with 0 evidence? My whole career depends on this, that’s why I’m reaching out, to try to be better prepared.
No, I apologize and appreciate your insight. I’m just utterly frustrated and I feel like I’m going crazy, trying to wrap my mind around all this… thank you again.
For all you know it was the 10th time that week the judge had heard someone try an "it wasn't me behind the wheel" defense. They've heard it all.
Call around. See if you qualify for legal aid. Ask for pro bono representation. Ask for a deferred payment plan. Anything that can get you someone on your side who knows how to help.
Yes. You've been accused of a very serious crime by an officer of the law and there must be some evidence that can be viewed in a way that makes you look guilty. You've included virtually no details here so I can't speak at any lenh about it, I will say that "you've got no evidence I was breaking the law" is not the ideal way to proclaim your innocence.
While I've never had to use the service, where I live, the roadside assistance cover I own provides a traffic lawyer if you've got a ticket that requires defending in court. Do you have something similar? Having a lawyer who knows what's likely to fly in front of a judge is invaluable. Knowing what won't work in front of a judge is a huge benefit.
Only one of these statements can be true. Do a quick calculation, in your career how much are you likely to earn above minimum wage until you retire? Write this number down.
I see your point, well said. My travel job requires background checks before each assignment, since the dui will show, it would do me no favors. I haven’t had income in 2.5 years while all this has been going on. So that means, even though I haven’t actually done anything, I have to come up with thousands out of pocket for a lawyer to tell them the exact same things I’ve said already only in “lawyer speak” … I have to pay to be legally innocent and that’s just how it is?
Next, call some lawyers who have experience in defending DUIs. Work out how much they would expect this to cost. Compare this number to your loss of earnings. If this number is higher then, fair enough. But I can tell you now, it will not be higher. You invest in a lawyer, you don't pay them.
Court is not like TV shows, gotcha moments are very rare, you need someone who is experienced in making a balanced argument.
"The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, but expecting different results." - actually Albert Einstein.