Haha. You know Putin is currently alone in his anger room screaming while smashing cupboards full of old, chipped Soviet dinnerware and punching pillows at this news.
He is going to go down in history as one of the most foolish leaders in the world. By the end of 2023, it'll be a miracle if he's still in power. Russia is going to get further destroyed on the battlefield and the common Russian person is not going to continue to tolerate it. He has dug the grave of the Russian nation and sadly those who have not supported this egotistical, futile mess are really going to pay. It is going to create a severe existential and identity crisis for Russia similar to the Axis powers post-WW2 and it will have ripple effects on the Russian Federation for the next century to come.
I do wonder, though, and maybe some American people/former service members can shed a light on this: is the commitment to send Abrams largely symbolic - or will they also have strong practical applications? From what I understand, they are a seriously complex vehicle using the Honeywell AGT1500 gas turbine engine (essentially a jet engine) which is very hard to maintain.
Due to that complexity...is it realistic that these tanks will have that much use on the battlefield, especially with limited supplies, manpower and knowledge as to how to operate and maintain them? Obviously a handful of M1 Abrams tanks is enough to cut through the Russian land forces like butter but I still wonder whether or not they'll be all that much use to them versus Challenger 2 or Leopard 2 vehicles.
However, the US has been maintaining for a while that there would be little benefit in sending Abrams' tanks due to the complexity in their operation and maintenance. So it makes me wonder, did they only agree to send them as a symbolic gesture and so Germany and other nations would agree to send Leopard 2's? Did they agree to send aide in other ways to maintain those Leopard 2's, knowing the Abrams wouldn't get all that much use?
First Challenger 2's from the UK. Then Leopard 2's from Germany and Spain. And now M1 Abrams from the USA. Honestly the only thing more humiliating at this point would be for the People's Republic of China to announce that they're sending Type 99's to Ukraine.
It was very difficult to maintain in the middle east due to sand ingestion, but Ukraine is exactly the terrain it was designed for.
And Ukraine is unlikely to be getting front line tanks, probably ones taken out of storage to be used as spares.