Don’t waste your breath, people that regurgitate the “Walmart gun buy” lie as an argument, are some of the most misinformed on the subject of basic US law.
People seem to be forgetting that Israel has mandatory military service for both men and women. Pretty much every adult in Israel knows their way around a gun.
While the idea of solving this problem by issuing more guns to more civilians may seem ridiculous to folks in the US, one crucial difference is that Israel has mandatory conscription. Meaning that most civilians have been rigorously trained to handle and maintain firearms. They aren't just random people who waltz into a Walmart and buy a gun with their groceries. Still not saying this is a great idea. More deadly weapons in a pressure cooker like Israel doesn't seem like an intuitive fix for anything.
no its not at all, that is totally illegal, im israeli, I live in israel and off duty soldiers are not allowed their weapons outside of uniform and they cant "go to the beach with their tavor or m4", complete nonsense. when combat soldiers have days off they are not carrying their arms with them to the beach. they go home and their weapon stays there.
some folks in the US. I'm not breaking new ground by saying there are different political camps in the US, including folks who think making guns more accessible will make people safer and those who think the accessibility of guns increases risk of injury and death. My comment had nothing to do with whether or not someone should have the right to own a gun. In most places in the world, you can't buy a gun in a grocery store (even if you fill out some paperwork). And in Israel specifically, a lot of people interact with guns as a result of military service, where extensive training is required and provided. My comment was about the contrast between the US and Israel, two countries responding to gun violence by making or keeping guns easily accessible to civilians. While the policies may seem similar on the surface, because their populations are different, the policies would play out differently in practice.