Assuming you can get into college, at least a good state school, your high school GPA has absolutely nothing to do with your prospects for graduate school, which is generally speaking the avenue most people take to get into history professionally. Do not under any circumstances get a history PhD — there is no job market for PhDs — but with a masters you can do many history and history-adjacent jobs.
Ditto to the other advice in the thread, but I'd ask you a question and ask you to do some self reflection? Why was your GPA as low as it was? Did you not study or do homework? Was there personal stuff going on? Did you not really try unless you were interested in the subject? Did you generally just struggle to understand the material?
Hmmm I never thought about it like that my school is the type that stresses 4 year university immediately after high school. And I’ve kinda taken honors classes and a friend of mine asked me sort of rudely how I plan to go to college.
That could be a great option for you if you, but in either case, stay positive, put in the work, and you can definitely still get to where you want to go.
It's NEVER to late to really make the change in your life, but you have to diagnose whats the main issue. For lots of folks coming out of high school, they're just not ready for college yet. It's not a bad thing, and I know plenty of people who achieved a lot of success without following the traditional path. Take a look at some 2 year programs / community colleges. In addition to letting you prepare yourself for a 4 year program, generally they're great GPA boosters, save you and your family a ton of money, and most have matriculation agreements with major 4 year universities that will make it a lot easier to get into college then coming straight out of high school.
Well, talk to your guidance counselor and see what they recommend — I can’t speak to your state or individual circumstances, but it seems highly unlikely that you couldn’t get in _somewhere_ and start working your way towards a degree. The chancellor of the university where I work has a GED and an associates degree, and he’s built that into a PhD and a quite successful academic career.