I think this is basically outside of what can be answered here, as medical malpractice is very case specific and it depends on many factors. In any case just because there were many different places and drugs does not mean that this is a ground for liability. Your best would be to contact a lawyer specializing in medical malpractice and they will then ask the right questions and tell you what your options are.
You may want to remove the duplicate diagnoses. ADHD and ADD are not separate disorders (although previously inattentive type ADHD was called ADD). Similarly bipolar disorder is the same illness as manic depressive disorder (just an older name for the same disorder).
If it was a long time ago, you could have been diagnosed with both because for a long time they were identified as separate instead of two types of the same disorder.
Yes my terms are outdated as it’s been many years since. I’m going to leave it this way as it’s part of the authenticity of my post. But I welcome your corrections. More proof to me that they really have no fucking clue about any of it.
Hey I’m sorry I know that. I honestly do. Lol.. people in this thread seem to think I’m about to fly off and have a total break down or something.
I apologise for not being more clear - my intent was to suggest that you remove them if you were sending the text to a lawyer. I didn't mean to imply that you should edit your post.
It’s a frustrating thing for me but I generally just go about and live life pretty normally. I’m okay!
I did wonder about that. I just got a health card for the first time in many many years. Part of my plan is to tr tho get some help somewhere. I’m sure that will entail putting me pack “on paper” so to speak..
A lot of time has passed since this happened and so taking a few more months now before speaking to a lawyer will likely have no impact. If you want to sue someone, you will ideally need to identify them (the doctors you saw/ treatments you received/facilities you were treated at), which will be difficult and time consuming to collect given the amount of time that has past.
To help you prepare to talk to a lawyer and potentially meet with a psychiatric prescriber, it may be helpful to first meet with a therapist. Someone who is "trauma informed" would potentially be helpful, because regardless of how legal/illegal well intentioned/abusive your treatment as a child was, it sounds like it is very distressing to you today. Best of luck to you.