Did PNC refund all of your fees associated with the repossession and correct the late payments on your credit report?
The CFPB may levy fines that could be passed to you but a simple clerk’s error probably won’t trigger fines.
PNC has a history of predatory fee and loan practices; I figure they could be doing this to other customers:
The teller making a mistake doesn’t create a contract with you/amend your loan that must be honored.
You bear responsibility to monitor your finances and even if you’re under the assumption the loan didn’t require anything until June of next year you should have noticed that the principle had been lowered and no payments made starting in what sounds like October.
Your recourse is mostly going to be around if desired a refund on the 9 month pre payment/ loan adjusted.
Also I have been told that they can pay ahead a month in advance if they would have done it as individual deposits. It is the manner in which they set up the deposit which caused the issue.
Your comment that I didn't have time to was removed for being continued rude. Again, you can pay a lawyer to get why you're wrong. A teller made a mistake. You're conflating this into a giant issue that you get a giant payout and they get fined and this never happens again.
I imagine there aren't many people here with legal literacy just "working" class retail workers who think that "customers are always wrong" judging by the way I got down voted.
My guess is you are someone from a "tort reform" state and you hate pesky millennial claimants driving up the cost of everything because we're supposed to know that hot coffee is hot.
Explain how someone making a mistake is predatory lending that entitles you to damages and giant fines because you never noticed you loan didn’t get paid.
I wouldn't be entitled to fines...That is a government action. I am asking about things particular to consumer protection and banking law which I am not familiar with.
PNC is notorious for predatory lending, that is why. Perhaps there are class action suits I did not know about going on.
I did look at my loans for the first few months. They arbitrarily decided to stop splitting deposit into monthly payments. This was also after a phone call that said that the issue they had regarding this matter would be fixed. To me this isn't even something that should be argued about. It is just odd that people think that paying a year in advance is somehow being irresponsible or negligent when it is the exact opposite.
Doesn't matter PNC has reimbursed me for anything because I am capable of applying common law principles and threatened to sue. They now acknowledged a mistake and also when I read the PNC execs your responses on Reddit we all had a good laugh about your poorly informed opinions.
You came to reddit seeking legal advice hit had an attitude with strangers. I hope you have the funds to properly seek a lawyer. You sound like a clown whining on here. Good luck.
Bro. I already solved the problem and got my car returned (and everything else paid for) precisely because of the issue I brought up with the legal department of PNC. You guys sound like clowns when you deny first year law school employee liability stuff. Good luck in life being a knuckle dragging buffoon.
Not what you asked and not relevant. Them doing anything else has no effect on you. It’s really about your case. Which is you should have seen you didn’t make a payment for months on a loan.