All of them try to eat as much as they can, which many times had led to starvation and many dying and then preys grow again (most of the time, not always). Animals can change a lot the landscape too, like beavers and elephants. As I said in the comments, we had a way higher capacity for doing damage now, that nature cannot cope with to reverse it. But it's not like other animals would not do it if they were capable. We are not so different, for the good and for the bad.
Animals are different in that they are bound by the ecosystem they inhabit. Over-consumption of resources is limited: by predators, predators are limited by prey, plants are limited by herbivores, etc. They all make up a piece of the puzzle, with limiting factors, to maintain the balance of whatever ecosystem they find themselves in.
Elephants trample trees, but they are (or were, their worldwide population and habitat is negligible now) migratory over huge swathes of land. Not concentrating it so heavily that it decimates entire habitats.
Humans are animals, I agree, but we don't have any natural limitations anymore. Our own stupidity in neglecting habitats, ecosystems, and wildlife in our pursuit of whatever we've created here is different. No animal would be capable of replicating the destruction we've wrought.
The ecosystem adapts because it had time for it. Trees came to the world way after animals. Fungus that process dead trees came way after there were plenty of dead trees just laying around. We only recently (in geological terms) have made things to last for way too long. And we got so "good" at it that it may be irreversible. I stand by my original comment, because I think that your reply is lacking the time factor. The fact that you think that we don't have natural limitations anymore just supports the idea that we keep being as naive as other animals.
\- life certainly came to earth before trees, but to claim complex life forms came to earth before trees, let alone life capable of destroying the building blocks of life, doesn't seem accurate or pertinent.
But that's getting into the weeds, looking at the modern age specifically, claiming humans are exactly as destructive as animals isn't accurate.
If humanity disappeared tomorrow, all of our industry turning off, it would take quite awhile for life to adapt to our fallout. There isn't a life form past or present with that detrimental an affect on its habitat. Unless we change the definition of life to include meteors or widespread volcanic activity.
Edit - Just so I don't leave one unaddressed I left it out as it's obvious - Our only limitation is how much we can harvest from the planet before we exhaust its ability to sustain our shenanigans. And we're starting to butt into the early stages of that now.
But honestly it just seems like we're saying the same thing with different wording so, fun talk, and I hadn't seen that wiki page before so cheers.