While this is largely true, I would like to contend that the IJN did, in fact, outclass the RN, due to a number of key factors.
However, I want to point out that while the Royal Navy lost to the Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) in the Asia Pacific in 1941, and while Malaya, Singapore and Hong Kong did fall to the Japanese, we cannot therefore say that on the whole the RN was outmatched by the IJN. That would be like saying, because the American air force failed to protect Pearl Harbour, the entire American air force was outmatched by the Japanese air force.
I don’t know anything about the American navy so I won’t attempt that part of the question. I can outline 22 years of disastrous events leading up to the Royal Navy (RN) losing Repulse and Prince of Wales in December 1941, the event which resulted in Japanese control of the South China Sea and the retreat of the RN fleet in the Far East.
In 1919, Britain was absorbing the lessons of the Great War, one of which was that, in any future large scale European war, Britain needed the strenh of her Empire behind her. Manpower and raw materials from across the world would flow into Britain, with which a future foe could be beaten.
Thus, the Empire had to be maintained at all costs, and central to the defence of the Empire was the RN. Only the RN could project power to defend colonies in the Far East while defending supply lines between them and Britain.
Based on this assumption, the logical requirement was that 3 separate, powerful fleets in the Atlantic, the Mediterranean/Africa and the Far East were required. However, Britain in 1919 had been exhausted by WW1 and couldn’t afford this. Instead, Winston Churchill, future heroic leader of the British Empire, proposed the Ten Year Rule - the armed forces should base their budgets on the assumption that the British Empire would not be engaged in any great war during the next ten years.
This caused something like a 75% cut in defence spending between 1919 and 1920, and the navy was left to ponder how exactly it was supposed to be the protector of the Empire on a shoestring budget.
While pondering, the RN received another rude shock in the form of the 1922 Washinon Naval Conference, where the Americans not only suggested sweeping cuts in the navies of Britain, the United States and Japan (and France and Italy), but also that the navies should be limited to a 5:5:3 ratio.
Thus, by 1922, the RN found its budgets determined by treaty and limited by the Ten Year Rule, but the requirement to defend the Empire did not change.
Unfortunately, the Americans were not going to back down. The unspoken threat was that America had emerged from WW1 as the Greatest Nation on Earth. And if the treaty was not signed, then the Greatest Nation on Earth would build the Greatest Navy on Earth, and neither the Japanese nor the weary British would have any hope of matching it.
So the RN submitted a new plan, under which there would be no major fleet stationed in the Far East. Instead, Britain would maintain just one fleet closer to home, and, in case of hostilities in the Far East, it would send this fleet to meet and defeat the threat.
These ships would need a major regional base from which to operate. British planners as far back as the 1920s saw Japan as the threat of the future in the Far East, and, accordingly, selected Singapore as the site of the new naval base. Hong Kong was too close to Japan, Sydney too far. Singapore was close enough to Japan to be a threat, yet far enough to be inconvenient to attack.
This “Singapore Strategy” endured all the way till 1942. Practically all British plans for the defence of the colonies in the Far East were based around it. But even in 1923, Jan Smuts, the highly regarded military man who was Prime Minister of South Africa, pointed out that Britain would only be able to send out the fleet if it were not engaged in Europe, but that it was precisely only when the fleet was engaged in Europe that the Japanese would attack. But this and other criticisms were not heeded. Indeed, given treaty and budgetary constraints, there was really no real alternative.
Almost immediately, the naval base, essential to the Singapore Strategy, ran into financial constraints. The original plan, the “Green Scheme”, envisaged a massive facility with a floating dock, sealed inner basins, at least 10 docks, lots and lots of petrol storage and more. All in all it was meant to support at least 12 capital ships and a full complement of escorts.
The government was never going to agree to the cost, so in 1923 the RN submitted a revised “Red Scheme” that cut capacity by about 40% and cost to about 25m pounds. Such a base could only handle about 20% of the main fleet, good enough for peacetime, probably not good enough for war.
In 1924, future hero Churchill complained about costs again, arguing that there was no chance of war with Japan in their lifetime. By 1926 the base was again reduced by removing all repair capacity. Warships needing serious maintenance would have to use the facilities of the commercial harbour. This plan was accepted, but successive governments dragged their feet, viewing it as unnecessary expense, until 1938 when it was decided to officially open it, in a half-finished state, to try and calm Dominion jitters over the increasingly aggressive Empire of Japan.
The result was that, whether Britain would be able to send a fleet or not became moot, because the naval base no longer had the capacity to support a fleet large enough to wage war. Instead, it now contained enormous petrol reserves and not enough ships to defend it, making it a very tempting target.
In 1940, after the fall of France, Britain found itself fighting alone against Germany and Italy. The RN now had to concentrate its forces in the Mediterranean against Italy, while still sparing ships to protect vital imports in the Atlantic against Germany.
Meanwhile, between 1940 and 1941, Japan took over the whole of French Indochina, giving it access to bases on Malaya’s doorstep. Troop carriers could now reach Malaya in just 4 days. But the RN was too tied up to spare enough strenh to repel an invasion.
The RN was furious. The strenh of the RN - indeed, any armed force in the world - should be determined by the Empire’s needs and its capability to support them. But if they accepted that they could be no larger than the American navy, then the strenh of the RN would be determined by America’s needs, even though the RN might have greater commitments.
Finally, in October 1941, the British scraped together an aircraft carrier, the HMS Indomitable, and 2 capital ships, Repulse and Prince of Wales, to send to Singapore. This was publicly announced in the hopes that it would deter Japanese aggression. Instead, the Japanese dispatched the 22nd Naval Air Flotilla, a land-based unit specially trained and equipped to destroy surface vessels, to southern Indochina.
Promising to knock out 40% of the Japanese fleet before it was able to land troops, the RAF had built several airfields in Malaya’s east coast, so as to rapidly intercept incoming ships from Indochina. Unfortunately, they did not coordinate with the army and so these were in difficult-to-defend locations and terrain.
Meanwhile, with its bases in Indochina, Japan could choose the time of attack, and concentrate its best forces on yet another front that Britain had to defend.
On the 5th of December 1941, the Japanese fleet left their bases in Indochina and set sail for southern Thailand and Malaya. There was as yet no declaration of war, so the Commander-in-Chief of the fleet, Tom Phillips, flew to Manila to confer with his American counterpart, as he had been ordered to do. The same day, Repulse left Singapore to visit Australia, while Prince of Wales was undergoing repairs. The aircraft carrier, HMS Indomitable, had run aground near Jamaica and, thus delayed, had not yet reached Singapore (and would not in time to see any action).
On the 8th of December, the Japanese landed in Kota Bharu in northern Malaya and, despite stiff resistance from the defenders, pushed through, established a beachhead and eventually captured the nearby airfields.
Kota Bharu was well within range of enemy bombers, so Phillips was gambling on being able to surprise the enemy and do enough damage before enemy bombers arrived. However, Phillips was a “desk admiral” with limited time at sea. He thus tried to achieve the element of surprise by maintaining radio silence. As a result, the RAF had no idea where he was and how to find him.
In 1932, the Ten Year Rule was finally scrapped. However, now in the throes of the Great Depression, Britain could not afford to grow its navy by nearly enough to make up for lost time. To make matters worse, the decade saw the rise of Italy, Germany and Japan, 3 powers that threatened the Empire on 3 different fronts.
Phillips reached Kota Bharu on the 9th, right after the Japanese had successfully beaten back the defenders and their fleet had left. He hunted in vain for Japanese targets, but when spotted by Japanese aircraft in the late afternoon, Phillips knew he had lost the element of surprise and started heading back to Singapore.
By the time the fleet in Singapore was ready it was late in the afternoon of the 8th. The Japanese had already attacked Pearl Harbour and it was clear that no American help was forthcoming. On hindsight, it might have been better for the fleet to retreat to Indonesia, link up with other Allied fleets and threaten the Japanese. However, there was still the chance for the RN to lay a decisive role in the defence of Malaya. If the fleet hurried, it could perhaps catch the Japanese troop transports as they were unloading and do great damage.
Without capital ships the “fleet”, such as it were, was useless. It fought one more tiny engagement off the coast of Endau, which it lost, before being pulled back to India. At the cost of 3 aircraft the Japanese now had control of the South China Sea.