The problem here is that "did loss of , which is the most frequent subject of such queries; Xenophon addresses not merely the loss of the Alexandrine institution but also how we do lose texts.
So, I am actually going to disagree with u/XenophonTheAthenian 's excellent post here, which I come back to read regularly whenever this question comes up, and to u/DanKensinon above. I'm responding to both here, because I think it is relevant to the answer to this question now, which I see here regularly.
This statement: "Catastrophic events may be dramatic to read about after the fact, but they are not the cause of losing texts or knowledge" - is not accurate. As is "Probably next to nothing, and certainly nothing of importance was lost." by u/XenophonTheAthenian in the linked to post.
u/XenophonTheAthenian uses the example of what would happen if the Library of Congress was burnt, and what would be lost would have been not much, since there are copies of everything of importance elsewhere. Perhaps. But what is defined as important changes over time. Even today, with all of our modern technology, valuable information can be lost due to catastrophe.
What may be more accurate is to say, "Probably next to nothing, and certainly nothing of importance TO THE EGYPTIANS OF ANTIQUITY was lost." But perhaps many things of importance to a modern historian might have been lost, specifically \records\. Would items related to record keeping have been as important to copy for the Ptolemies as original texts or commentaries? If not, and if those were in the fire (s?), then certainly it could be said that something of great importance to historians was lost.
A good counterpoint example here to consider (although a modern one, but still relevant) is the 1975 National Personnel Records Center Fire, which destroyed 16-18 million veterans records going back to the Civil War:
The relevant quote is, "No duplicate copies of these records were ever maintained, nor were microfilm copies produced. Neither were any indexes created prior to the fire. In addition, millions of documents had been lent to the Department of Veterans Affairs before the fire occurred. Therefore, a complete listing of the records that were lost is not available." As a result, if you try to do a search about a relative who served in WWI, for example, and try to find what engagements he was in, you may not be able to find anything because the record was destroyed.
I use this as an example because it may be the case that the Ptolemies did not think to include \records\ as something they may have considered useful to copy. By records, in an ancient sense, I mean data related to crop production, grain amounts over time in storage, resources, census data, and so on. I'm not certain of the amount of these sorts of papyri that the Egyptians would have produced themselves, but if they had papyri they acquired from other sources over time, that might have been included in their collection. Would those have been copied and sent to far-flung libraries as often as original or critical texts? Isn't it possible, \even likely\, that some of these sorts of papyri were \never\ copied because they might have been considered mundane?
To a modern historian, I would imagine things like grain production, census data, or any other purely data-keeping that might have been on papyri would be extremely important to have on hand to study an older civilization... but perhaps not something that would have been high on a list to copy when the other choices are original texts or commentaries when choosing what to include in far flung library "franchises".
And so I think perhaps it is hasty to say nothing of value may have been lost, when what is valuable to us may not have been so to those who were originally copying texts. If there were papyruses that consisted purely of record keeping, isn't it possible that a fire that would have destroyed them would have actually been quite catastrophic for our knowledge of older civilizations today?
I don't think that there's any evidence that the Alexandrian library, which was a place of literary scholarship first and foremost, was used as the repository for the administrative records of the Ptolemies, which would've been housed somewhere else. Similarly, we know that the Roman state records were not kept in the libraries at Rome that existed from the Augustan Age on (strangely always left out in discussions of supposedly catastrophic textual event losses, despite probably being the largest collection of texts anywhere in the ancient world), but were kept in the treasury and on the Capitol. In point of fact we have quite a lot of the state administrative records of the Ptolemies in Egypt, as well as of the later Roman administration, far more than in all the other areas of the empire and probably more than all the other areas of the empire put together (I don't know the statistic for that off the top of my head, but I'd be shocked if it wasn't true). Papyri survive in Egypt in massively greater quantities than anywhere else due to the climate, and we have many times more "mundane" texts--not just administrative records, but also private notes and stuff--from Egypt than anywhere else. So I'm not sure that that's really a justified objection, though it's a reasonable one to make, if you see the difference. The fact is that the survival of administrative records is as unrelated to the library as any other kind of text, and the examples of Hellenistic and Roman Egyptian administrative texts that we do have indicate that such texts follow the same patterns of preservation as other manuscripts.
A few words ought to be said on these texts, because other than a brief allusion I conspicuously have left them out of the original comment. The library at Alexandria wasn't a storehouse of books, it was an institution dedicated to literary scholarship which also produced the scientific (and religious!) treatises for which the library is known and misunderstood in the general imagination, mostly because Alexandrian scholars were polymaths and played around with a lot of different stuff. Overwhelmingly the work of the Alexandrian scholars survives in some form or another. At the most obvious level, the editions of Greek texts of the classical and Archaic periods that we read today as OCTs or Loebs are, for the most part, the result of the activities of the Alexandrian scholars, who drew up recensions of Homer and Hesiod and whose work cataloguing, cleaning up, and rendering intelligible the texts of the tragedians stand out in particular. The division of ancient texts into books was standardized at Alexandria, where scholars also standardized the number of books of Homer and where the divisions between books were made. The Alexandrians developed the diacritical marks that are commonplace in Greek textual editions today. And so on and so forth. There were at Alexandria internal texts that were used to catalog and render intelligible the texts being studied, the same as at any modern research library today. Alexandrian scholars drew up catalogs of texts, wrote minor commentaries (and no doubt produced quite a lot of marginalia), and produced philological work that we don't have anymore. I've never heard of a historian seriously lamenting the loss of the collection at Alexandria, because the texts we want either weren't lost at Alexandria or had nothing to do with it in the first place, but there are textual critics and literary scholars who do wish that we knew more about what the Alexandrian scholars thought about the ancient texts. We know about some of these minor scholarly texts, but by and large we don't have them or have very much direct evidence for them.
While the objection here is reasonable, and I take the point, I think it also rather misunderstands what I'm saying. The point isn't that there wasn't anything in the library that didn't exist anywhere else that we don't have. I'm going to mention a few things that fit into that category in just a moment. The point, rather, is that the way that textual transmission works means that there isn't very much that we would have or not have based solely on whether it was destroyed at Alexandria, whenever exactly that's supposed to have occurred. By this we predominantly mean literary texts, which is exactly what the library housed, but it also applies to administrative texts, legal texts, etc. that weren't in the library and whose survival is therefore entirely independent of whether they were housed there. What was likely, though not necessarily, unique to Alexandria, or to any of the other scholarly institutions of the ancient world, were internal texts like catalogs, commentaries, and other "minor" works of scholarship.