I want justice. No one expects that when they drop off their puppy to daycare that they will never see them again.
Also, I want them to pay for how they mistreated me and my puppy. They straight up lied to me about how it happened and killed any chance of survival by packing him up the way they did.
I want to shut them down and warn other people but supposedly that’s “defamation” even though they caused me and my puppy’s suffering.
You're not going to get paid for pain and suffering. That's not going to happen and I know that's what you want to happen.
You want them shut down , but I don't see how a lawsuit can accomplish that. Judges don't order a business closed just because they committed negligence - assuming they actually did and that it wasn't an accident. If they're not following an established law in some way that can happen, and maybe you can find enough information to suggest that, but based upon what you have provided I can't tell one way or another. Just negligence isn't enough.
Warn people all you want. That isn't defamation. Defamation is making stuff up that you know isn't true.
If a lawsuit makes them pay damages enough to render them broke, don’t you think they would shut down? If people hear about what happened and suddenly stopped taking their dogs there, wouldn’t they shut down? Whether it’s for legal reasons or financial reasons, I don’t care. They were cruel in every aspect of how they handled it. The owner was thinking about saving her ass first before being empathetic to my situation, as she had called the hospital I took my pup to try to get information about what they found on the X-rays.
You can be paid for money you actually incurred in the purchase of the dog and vet bills (\edit) for the injuries suffered (not all vet bills for life of pup). They should be paying for that. They should be falling all over themselves to pay for that. They don't want bad reviews and I can't imagine a doggy day care is super happy this happened, but they can't give you what you seem to want.
Honestly I just want my dog back and I wish this never happened to me. I’ll reject all the money in the world for that. So I’m not just trying to get paid for my pain and suffering.
I am very familiar with how damages work in a lawsuit. You could not get an award of damages high enough to render them broke.