The laws of a divorce are the same for everyone. The way it can be more difficult on you really just depends on the specific facts of your case. Asking us to run down how it could be bad is asking us to basically come up with every single scenario in our heads and list them for you. That's a lot to ask and not necessarily helpful to you. You should consult with a divorce attorney so that you can talk to him/her about your specific life and how it would be affected during a divorce.
A divorce attorney. If you don't know any in your area you can use your state's lawyer referral service. Consultations can range from free to a nominal fee.
It depends on your budget and what kind of lawyer you want. Retainers can vary wildly from a lawyer to lawyer depending on the firm size and experience of the lawyer.
You own a significant asset together in that house. Defending yourself would be a very poor decision.
Without more facts, no. If your name is on the deed, you have just as much right to stay there. It may not be the most advisable thing to do for your situation, however.
People think recording stuff magically proves their case. It doesn't. A recording only shows you what happened while the device was recording. It doesn't give you any context and people are free to fill in the blanks. The judge could think you were setting up your wife to get into situations that makes her look bad. If it's that bad, why did you stay and record it and not just leave?
Thank you. I'm not asking for everyone to calculate all possible tragedy and save me, I just need to know where to start. Keep in mind that my life until now has been very sheltered and insular so I am probably asking "dumb questions". But I appreciate the insights and quick responses.
The dumbest question is the one not asked. The main question you're posing, however, is where to start, and the answer to that is: finding a divorce attorney.
I urge you to seek counsel and advice from outside of your community. Anyone with business or social ties to your community has the ability to innocently or maliciously let information slip. If your church gets wind before you have your ducks all queued, they could begin to discredit you. I think you know the likelihood of that based on your recent experiences as an elder, but you probably haven’t seen the full weight of the church coming down on an individual.
I would start by looking for resources that are specific to leaving your church. Perhaps you can even find folks who have been through that gauntlet and can point you towards trusted lawyers.
I know everything about everything JW related. I've been an "elder" for 2 years and have researched the heck out of doctrine, policy, and I can't do it anymore. Stepping down as an "elder" soon and that may show my wife's true colors. I don't want to leave her, but I can't support the corruption. We will see, thank you for your advice.
Thank you. I honestly don't want a divorce as my wife and I do get along for the most part, but I see people go to extremes over this religion (dying rather than accepting a blood transfusion, ect.) and I need to cover all my bases. This is so weird.
I was not witness to a crime and did not cover anything up. I have contacted the proper authorities about anything I have information on. They were nicer to me than any JW.
It was only that one time. I don't mean to demonize her as she is fun to be around 99% of the time, but it was very weird that she said that. To me it proves the fact that the religion instills hate and programming against any negative speech. We will see.