A bunch of people here acting like poor countries have a choice when the rest of the world starts buying non-russian oil shooting up it's price and OPEC is simultaneously cutting production.
If they are outbid on their traditional sources the alternative to moving to less ethical sources of oil is to have rolling blackouts. Plus I'd argue Saudi Arabia is just as unethical of a source which is where most South Asian countries got and still get the majority of their oil.
Since the developed "west" has decided to stop giving access to tankers and insurance, poorer countries should work together to form a counterweight to that.
Developing countries need to work together, and ofcourse bangladesh being a neighbor, India should help them.
Russia is no friend of the developing world my man. The West wants to sanction russia, not to raise prices for the developing world but to starve the fascist Russian war machine. This isn’t about the West vs anybody else but you already know that since you are a Russian troll.
Why does Asian countries pay higher prices for Crude Oil from Middle East when compared to Western Countries.
And who is getting the benefits of paying less, I am curious to know. As much as I know all countries which do not have their own oil wells are paying through the nose right now.
Not doubtful about the intention of the western nations. But while the west sanction Russia to starve it, it is also starving many developing and under developed countries.
Setting aside valid griviances by teeming them Russian troll talking points only reveals your dismissive attitude towards the worries of developing nations.
My comments had nothing about the west vs anybody, yet you comprehend as it was. Western nations want to restrict access to their insurance and shipping industry, I'm just suggesting that maybe developing nations including BRICS are maybe big enough to have their own shipping and insurance industry.
As opposed to committing suicide by unaffordable higher prices which anyway makes it harder for developing countries to construct new renewable power source.
Obviously if they can save money in oil, then they can spend the same money on other things. It is not helpful to pay 100$ for the same thing that you can get in 70$.