On the business side, it would be best if you arranged for a middle-man to handle the actual retail sale. This will take care of annoying things like sales tax collection, just like VAT collection would be aggravating for an American coming to the UK. (Registering for sales tax is done on a per-state basis, and requires annoying paperwork.).
Also, make sure you properly declare your items on the way into the US. Your trip through US Customs will be very unpleasant if you do not.
I'm assuming posting all the maps to a friend who lives in US would be super illegal if I intended to sell them?
Yes, mailing goods for resale without declaring them on the shipping paperwork would be very bad. (And you can't just call them a "gift" either, unless those antique maps are worth less than $100 altogether.).
Haha yes. This is all a pipe dream at the moment so just getting some better minds than my own to give their two cents.
You can enter the US under the Visa Waiver Program or a B-1 business visa for the purposes of "soliciting sales or investment." The actual sale must be done outside the US.
But good news I just did some Googling, and apparently if the items are over 100 years old (which I'm gonna guess is the case), they are exempt from import duty So you gotta declare (CBP Form 7523) if bringing them in on your own, but you won't owe duty.
Really, it would be best to mail them and use regular international shipment forms, making sure to list them on the Customs Declaration forms as "Antique xx-Century Maps" so it is clear they are over 100 years old. (Looking at the Royal Mail forms, they'll want a "Tariff Code"; For antiques > 100 years old, it's 97060000.).
I have the maps already for sale on my website. I have the maps in the US for the customers to view ... however they don't pay me (thus circumventing the rule that I can't make profit from a US entity while there) but pay through the website that is based in The UK. Hence no money changes hands on US soil technically...
Silly question maybe but if I had the maps with me... but they bought the maps as listed on my website which is based in The UK? Feel like that would be illegal?
It's clearly a totally illegal and silly loophole that wouldn't work but was just throwing around ideas.