If the driveway is shared, then you need to work with the other tenant. The last time I was in this situation, we kept our keys in a common area, and respectfully moved each others cars as needed.
Then your problem is with your LL, since they are not making the garage spot available as per your lease. Push harder on the LL, tell him you will be forced to not pay him for the garage, or pay him full rent and then sue him in civil court for not making the terms of the lease possible.
You state that this is "breaching the rental contract". What, specifically, does the rental contract say about parking and ingress/egress? Is there adequate room for both vehicles to park in the driveway?
Thanks for the reply. The lease states each unit has 1 garage spot, and street parking is for all other vehicles. When I spoke to my landlord, he reiterated this and said nobody is allowed to stay parked at the end of the driveway, since it blocks anyone from getting out of the garage. (Copied from below).
This is a tricky situation. If you don't get the new job, it is likely because your neighbor is making you late, but, unless your employer specifically states this, it will be hard to prove.
Unless you are looking to move soon, the best option would be to sit down and discuss this with the landlord and his father. I doubt that most towing companies would be willing to tow a car out of a driveway.
The lease states each unit has 1 garage spot, and street parking is for all other vehicles. When I spoke to my landlord, he reiterated this and said nobody is allowed to stay parked at the end of the driveway, since it blocks anyone from getting out of the garage.
Does the other tenant have a designated parking space? If they do and they are simply using the end of the driveway out of laziness, then towing might actually be appropriate.
At any rate, you need to put all of these incidents in writing and send a letter to your landlord. It is really his responsibility to resolve this issue and a certified letter will clearly delineate that responsibility and document the incidents to date.
If the vehicle is on the road, blacking access to the driveway, then this may well be illegal as it's blocking access to the property for emergency vehicles, and the city/police will likely tow.
Edit to ask: Does the lease attach a monetary value to the garage parking? If so, you might consider withholding that amount from the rent (possibly in escrow) until such time as the issue is resolved.
You could legally start parking your won vehicle on the driveway, forcing the other tenant to street park, but this will likely escalate things to a heated confrontation.
Unless your rental contract is very specific that no other tenant shall park on the drive, it's unlikely this falls under breaching the contract.
It's an annoyance, but the law would expect you to talk to the other tenant and sort a solution between yourselves.
If you don't want to talk to him, or escalate things by parking on the drive yourself, your only option is to street park yourself.