Before you attempt to debate the accuracy of this statement by Russell by comparing body counts, you should first understand what he meant by “the least harmful and the least cruel” within the context of the complete text. Russell’s 1921 lecture “The Essence and Effect of Religion” (delivered at the National University of Peking and first published in the journal Young China) attempted to address two questions:
Russell’s aim in this lecture was to examine the history and nature of religion to determine which aspects of traditional belief, if any, should be preserved in a secular society, and how ethics and morality can be extricated from religious dogma. As a humanist, Russell was willing to accommodate personal beliefs to a degree as well as what he perceived as benign “primitive” or “native” religious systems. His ire was directed at what he termed “public” religion, especially when it was used a cudgel.
If you look at the context for this quote as well as at the references to Buddhism in his other writings, it’s clear what Russell means by “the least harmful and the least cruel” is what he sees as a relative lack of persecution by those professing Buddhist beliefs when compared to what he considered to be the other “Great Religions” of Christianity, Islam, and Marxism. By persecution, Russell means the use of religion by the state to perpetrate violence against non-believers. He is in no way claiming that nations or societies with a majority or plurality of adherents to Buddhism are more peaceful or that Buddhists are less likely to wage war.
Russell’s statement is meant as faint praise of Buddhism’s willingness to accept a diversity of belief and its apparent lack of dogma. His appreciation of the religious pluralism he perceives in countries where Buddhism predominates is in support of his own philosophical and pacifistic aims and is not intended as an endorsement, as is made clear in the next sentence of the text:
Though Russell considered himself a socialist for most of his life, he was critical of Marx, Lenin, Stalin, and communism generally.
Russell's views of religion were incredibly nuanced and always evolving, so I'm not sure I can do him justice with an answer here. But at one point, he described religion as having three aspects: personal belief, public institutions, and theology. He was highly critical of the second two but supportive of the first, which is where he saw humanism as falling. It's doubtful Russell's brand of humanism could be considered a religion, giving it lacks both the institutional and, by definition, theological aspects.
The Russell on Religion book I list as a source is probably the best bet for finding most of his important writings on religion in one place. There’s a short introduction that provides some context.
Russell, Bertrand, et al. Russell on Religion: Selections From the Writings of Bertrand Russell. London: Routledge, 1999.
good stuff, any pointers to primary texts where Russell discussed these issues? He's a fantastic writer (most of his published work was "first draft", i.e. he could write with clarity at the first go!).
Thank you. If we're going to use a quote as a jumping-off point for discussion, it's important to understand its context.
In this case, I'm not entirely sure the matter at hand is one that can be analyzed using historical methods. I'm doubtful this discussion will produce a satisfying answer to a question that's more appropriately addressed to experts in comparative religion.