1) tell the court, as succinctly as you can, that your lawyer has abandoned you and you are trying to find new counsel. Include the parts about failing to make required filings on your behalf or to keep you informed, and also ignoring your calls etc. The judge will probably be pissed (at your lawyer).
2) go back to the Bar Association, tell them that your lawyer abandoned you, and ask for their help in finding a new lawyer.
2a) also ask the Bar Association for help in filing a bar complaint against your former lawyer. While you don’t have a right to free counsel in a civil case, lawyers can’t just abandon their clients like this. It’s an ethical violation.
Contempt carries possible criminal sanctions, including jail. Same rules as above applies - gather everything you can to show you did comply and/or that you didn't know what/how to comply because of ineffective assistance of counsel (ineffective assistance of counsel is generally a criminal term but may be relevant in your jurisdiction). Again, ignorance isn't a defense but it was your lawyers job to inform you what was required and to send it to her and her attorney, so that may take some of the heat off you.
One woman from there was nice enough to call me, provide 15 minutes of legal advice, and send me some relevant legal statutes. She got my number not through their system, but from my State Representative, whom I also reached out to for help.
Hey, I used to work for VT Legal Aid. Did you tell them about the abuse? If you did already, then I’m sorry, it massively sucks that they wouldn’t take your case. But if you didn’t mention the full story including the abuse, homelessness, and mental health issues, try calling back again. They will occasionally take family law cases when there is domestic abuse involved.
Anyway, my advice is useless if you’ve already told VLA this whole story, but I just wanted to check just in case. Doesn’t hurt to call a second time and tell them what’s going on now, and especially to mention that you were a victim of domestic violence. Tell them about how you didn’t get your legal mail because you were afraid of your wife’s abuse and didn’t want to give her your address. I have no idea if they’ll actually take your case, but it doesn’t hurt to ask again. At the very least, you’ll probably get some brief advice over the phone.
Thanks. A woman from VT Legal Aid was nice enough to give me a few minutes of coaching, for which I’m thankful. In an official capacity, they were only willing to help me file an RFA, which I think is mostly unnecessary now that I’m living far away in another state.
Be aware that there might be some sanctions already entered against you for failure to comply with the financial disclosures. You will need to address that with the court as well. I'd bring proof of everything you sent to your attorney, with the date you sent it, to show it wasn't you personally that failed to comply, it was your attorney who didn't disclose them. Also, I'd get your ex wife copies of the financial disclosures ASAP since you now cant claim ignorance (ignorance, by the way, is not a defense).
Google pro bono and low bono family law representation in your county. Another source of a pro bono attorney might be a victims rights center. Those types of centers are often centered around women, but in the last decade or so a lot have realized DV happens to men too and have opened it up to other.
I find it difficult to answer some of these questions publicly, I feel that answering directly and publicly may not be advantageous to my argument. The honest answers are also very emotionally charged and arguably biased.
They could face disciplinary action from the state bar. Probably not disbarment unless particularly egregious or repeated—first offense would probably be a fine and some required ethical re-training.