Emancipation is a legal framework for allowing minors who are _de facto_ independent to have the legal capacity to enter contracts and make other arrangements necessary to continue that independence. If you're not already independent, you don't qualify to be emancipated. Since you're living under your parents' roofs, that door is closed.
CPS does not have the ability to emancipate children. Child services can act to remove children from their parents' households, temporarily or permanently, if the home they're in is an immediate danger to the child's health and safety, but children so removed are generally placed with a family member (if possible), or a group home or foster home (otherwise). They are not left to fend for themselves. In most cases, CPS' long-term goals are to reunite the child with their parents, once the parents get the underlying issue under control, too: permanent placement is mostly for situations where the parents are chronically unable to keep their children housed, clothed, or safe from violence.
Minors generally have little ability to intervene in their parents' affairs, and you almost certainly can't file to change custody. Your other parent can, but a disagreement over a trans child's care and parenting is a weak basis for sole custody. A judge may give your preference some level of priority if, in their view, you're old enough to make that choice, but it's usually at the discretion of the judge.
Having said all of that, it sounds like your father, D, may be a hoarder. Hoarding creates serious hazards: improperly piled materials may fall or pose a fire risk, and hoards often provide ample room for pests, rodents, fungus and mould, and other health hazards to develop. While I'm skeptical that your father's mishandling of your identity as a boy is meaningful, your father's inability to provide a safe home may be very important.
You don't have a right to be free from transphobia in your parents' home. That's the ugly, basic truth of it. Your parents' acceptance of queer identities is a parenting issue, not a legal issue, and they can choose not to accept yours if they wish. In most jurisdictions, you also don't have a right to pursue elective medical treatment, such as transition-related hormone treatment or surgery, and so far as I know, while the evidence for the benefits is fairly widespread, there is no medical consensus that gender-affirming treatment is essential care. This means that your father is probably not neglecting you by not supporting your transition, at least legally.
If you're in school, or normally would be, reach out to a teacher you trust and lay this out. In most jurisdictions, teachers are mandated reporters for child abuse and neglect, and can help you talk to CPS about whichever issues suggest you're in serious and immediate danger. Otherwise, even though I'm skeptical of some parts of the outcomes, it's likely worth your time to look up the number and call CPS yourself: most places list the number on the web, and it can probably be found on Google.
Having said that: Yes, I will try and do my research and maybe contact CPS when I'm 16, and thank you for the information about being emancipated I'm going to add the first part of this comment to the post.
I forgot to add something to my post that may change things slightly- I havent been in school since I moved here in late 2020. I've missed like two semesters, and every time I bring it up D gets mad and says "he's trying". My main concern wasnt me not being able to transition and them being transphobic, it's the fact that we live paycheck to paycheck and I'm not in school. Theyve threatened to completely isolate me before. D is just generally toxic not only to me but to SM (theyve had physical fights in the time I've been here) and I'm suspicious of them still being on drugs (they are "ex" heroine addicts). I feel like my post was badly written because I wrote it on a whim and didn't let my partner completely read through it before I posted it.
Honestly, you shouldn't have to. I'm appalled at both of your parents for letting you down in such basic and important ways as making sure you get an education, and keeping you in a safe home. Having to raise yourself isn't a good outcome. I'm equally shocked with your mother, who apparently can't hold it together long enough for a coffee date with her son, and who at one point had a habit of beating you.
You should reach out to your local school board, and find out what public school you should be enrolled in. It would not surprise me if you call that school and discover that they have no record of your father ever making an effort: getting you into school is generally a one-phonecall problem, so if he's "trying," it's not clear what he's actually done.
Your school staff should be able to help you regardless of whether you're enrolled there, mainly because you have a right to be enrolled and because they are mandated reporters. You don't have to wait to turn 16: call them this week!
When you can, please do talk to a therapist. What you're going through is almost certainly going to leave scars. Good support can make a world of difference to your life.