While slightly before your timeframe, I think the writings of Alexis de Tocqueville are a great, enduring example of what a well-educated European thought about Americans in terms of culture, economics, science, power, and influence in the mid-1800s. He set out to travel through the United States in 1831 to investigate its prison system, but ended up writing a study of democracy in its infancy instead. He published his first volume of Democracy in America about four years later in 1835, and the second volume in 1840. It was immediately popular in Europe and the US alike, and helped shape European opinion of the fledgling democratic republic and its people for years to come.
While Tocqueville lamented the state of the arts and science in the US, believing these fields to be limited to pedestrian applications, he visited prior to the literary renaissance which saw the emergence of great authors like Poe, Thoreau, Emerson, Melville, Whitman et al. Had his timing been different, he may have changed his opinion as to the state of literature if not the arts as a whole, but I will limit speculation and stick to the text.
Overall, Tocqueville was impressed with the spirit and character of the American people, while pointing out downsides of the great democratic experiment the US represented. Many of these concerns still ring true. For example, he was particularly concerned with tyranny of the majority over thought or more learned positions on policy (an understandable position, especially for an educated aristocrat), materialism, strained race relations, the double-edged sword of a free press, and the isolation of individuals.
To Tocqueville, the true greatness of the American experiment was found in its small townships, which were more inclusive than the sprawling urban centers where it was easier for many to feel isolated or disenfranchised, to give into corruption, or to be driven by materialism rather than personal and community needs. He also admired the relative autonomy with which townships operated, which was a stark contrast to the centralized approach that historically dominated the French, and other European nations’, style of government.
The apparent prescience with which Tocqueville was endowed through his travels is a testament to the thoroughness of his studies and ability to contextualize them on the world stage from a European perspective. I think this is best encapsulated by the following quote, which is the conclusion of Vol. I of Democracy in America and predicts the two greatest influences on the course of western/world history for the next 160+ years to come:
I watched a YouTube video summarizing it and I was blown away by his observations of Americans and the obsession with making money due to America being less class structured than Europe.