Today, there are many written Indigenous languages. I can't address all of their origins in a single post (nor do I have the expertise to do so), so I will try to give an overview of a few key themes in their history.
What counts as "writing" when evaluating indigenous record-keeping is not easy to define. Traditional Western accounts consider only the Mayan and Aztec systems writing, since they represent speech in a way similar to "Old World" writing systems. However, there has been pushback against this exclusionary model from indigenous peoples who use other record-keeping systems, such as the many peoples who use wampum. See, for example, Reading the Wampum: Essays on Hodinöhsö:ni' Visual Code and Epistemological Recovery, edited by Penelope Myrtle Kelsey (2014).
1) It's worth considering what we mean by written language. Some plains peoples kept pictographic records of their histories, known as winter counts. You can see an example here: . Similarly, some Indigenous nations of the eastern woodlands kept records of events through the symbolism in the artwork appearing on wampum belts (you can see a few here: ). These are not the same thing as a European-style alphabet, but I would argue that in many ways the function is the same--the inscription of symbols that can convey meaning across space and time.
2) There are also examples of Indigenous written languages created by Indigenous people that are more similar to European-style writing. As a couple of notable examples, the Aztec and Maya had their own systems of writing. In a later instance, a Cherokee man named Sequoyah developed a syllabary for the Cherokee language in the early nineteenth century. The Cherokee nation quickly took up Sequoyah's script, with its members creating everything from government documents to personal correspondence to newspapers in the new written form of Cherokee.
3) In other cases, Indigenous written languages were created as part of European efforts to colonize and convert Indigenous people. Inuktitut syllabics in the Arctic, as just one example, was developed by Christian missionaries of the nineteenth century as a means to disseminate the Bible to Inuit people.
That's really interesting to consider symbolism through artwork as language. I also had no idea there were some languages created so recently. Thanks for the lesson!