So half the fence has a darker shade of wood, and you used the same stain on the whole fence? Was any of this talked about beforehand or in the contract? What did you color match? Other fence elsewhere on the property?
The fence seemed to be a fairly uniform color prior to staining, but the left side ended up showing a darker shade of the stain than the right side, this particular job was not written up with a formal contract, just the written approval on my estimate form. That states “stain to be applied after installation once new wood has had time to dry”.
I told the client’s daughter who is my main contact and is the one living at the house that we had a color matched stain in a text that she agreed with.
They had picked a color of stain called Cabot Honey Teak, but I wasn’t able to procure that in time for this short timeframe that we had to get the stain down before rain came in, so I had a worker at Lowe’s look at the stain and he had their closest match which he said looked nearly identical at Valspar Redwood Naturaltone Transparent. This customer had been hounding me to get the stain down ASAP, so we were pushing to get it done as quickly as possible.
OK, you might want to send a copy of that text to this lawyer and hopefully it will fend off any lawsuits.
But this is likely in small claims territory and you should be fine. There's nothing you can do to stop him from suing you, but bring copies of all of those texts and it's likely the judge will side with you. No cost/lawyers on your side, just some time to fight it in court. But in all likelihood this guy is bluffing.
It all depends on what is in writing OR, if it was all verbal, what the judge believes based upon the evidence.
The only written that I can reference is my estimate that they agreed too over text. All the estimate included was “stain to be applied after installation once new wood has had time to dry”.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
Also I found it odd that he was sending texts at nearly 10pm to someone threatening suing, that seems wildly unprofessional from anyone, let alone an attorney.
What I’m concerned with is the fact that the customer is an attorney and will just go after me just to cost me money when it makes no difference to him if he wins or looses. Also I was expecting a bad review at this point that I can clearly rebut, but court is something I haven’t had to deal with, let alone against an attorney.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.