If AZ CPS shows up, then talk to them, but interviewing a 2.5 year old that hasn’t met their mom in living memory is pointless.
Thank you. Good to know California has no authority. Arizona has no concerns and they have everything from when they vetted me on file, if they show up I'll talk to them but they aren't interested in whatever California is doing.
Jurisdiction over your daughter but have to interview you and her during this portion of the investigation. If they open a case here in CA, they may ask the CPS in your area to do a house call/visit but only if they get involved. Good luck to you and her.
Advice still stands. Have a lawyer to call before talking to CAS on the off chance there’s more going on and things unexpectedly escalate. Anything that could put you or your child’s liberty at risk shouldn’t be done lightly, that includes dealing with law enforcement as well as CPS. Their counsel doesn’t have to intervene in any way, but OP should at least be aware of the potential ramifications if CPS happens to perceive even a glimmer of impropriety, regardless of the accuracy of that perception.
According to the social worker that I spoke to here in Arizona, California CPS has not been in contact with them at all. He even double checked. I have no idea how California CPS found out about me, but they knew I had been married to my ex-wife and that she had no rights to my daughter. The Arizona social worker said they have heard nothing and just reiterated to me there were no concerns from them about my daughter. They knew nothing about California CPS wanting to intervene with my daughter.
It is because they want to intervene in my daughter's life so they can check she isn't being abused. They said it is mandatory for all open cases they have but in this case my ex-wife doesn't have rights or involvement. I 100% understand it would be different if we had shared custody or she was in contact with my daughter. But that's not the case here and since we are in a completely different state and our state has no problems I don't want anything to do with this.
I don't have a lawyer and without legal assistance or aid I'd be hard pressed to afford one. I've never needed a lawyer in my life for anything and since California has no authority here and Arizona has no concerns (and I already passed all their vetting) I can't see why I'd need one now.
California CPS said they have to intervene with my daughter because it is mandatory once they have an open case on someone to intervene with any of their other children. They were already aware of my ex-wife losing her parental rights but that doesn't negate their intervention. I wasn't even the one to petition for her to lose her parental rights on the first place. Arizona authorities began that process before my involvement.
California CPS already has all that information. They knew it the first time they contacted me. I don't understand why they still want to intervene with my daughter if they know my ex-wife has no rights and already knew that before they called me.
They don't want me to be a placement. Allegedly I'm not qualified for the level of disability care needed. I don't know what that means. I don't know what they meant by that or anything about the infant. I didn't even know the infant existed until they called me. They won't tell me anything for confidentiality reasons. They have said they are required to intervene in my daughter's care due to an open case against her mother. In circumstances like this they say it is mandatory to intervene with all other children. They don't care she doesn't have parental rights. It makes no sense to me at all.
They already have that information. They know about her arrest and sentence here in Arizona, that she was pregnant when she was arrested and that the state took my daughter into custody after her birth. They know parental rights were terminated. They already knew the first time they contacted me so I don't know what else they want or why they are interested.
I'm not looking to care for the infant in question. This information about the my ex-wife's other child being extremely disabled was told to me the first time California CPS contacted me. All I want is for California CPS to leave my daughter alone. Since my ex-wife has no parental rights they don't need to intervene on my daughter's care and they have no jurisdiction to anyways. ETA: I'm not looking to take in this other child, apologies if it sounds cold or terrible.