He can get a separate chequing account at another bank. Start having all of his paycheque deposited there and move autopay for whatever utilities are in his name to the new account.
He needs to contact the credit card companies with the cards and either close the accounts (if he can afford to) or ask for new numbers because his cards are compromised. Her use of his credit cards is a problem, since it's technically financial fraud.
Have him change all the passwords to accounts used for shopping at Amazon and Target, etc., and use a password manager (like Lastpass). Turn on two factor authentication to all online accounts where possible to keep her from accessing them.
He should speak with a financial advisor for a plan to mitigate her debt, as a start. Getting himself on stable ground is very important. If she's willing to have a financial plan or financial counseling, this may help the pair of them. If not, then he should consider his escape plans from the relationship if it's declining. Financial differences are one of the main reasons for a relationship ending.
He will want to speak with a family law attorney since even unmarried couples have to work out visitation, custody, medical and educational rights, etc. He'll want to talk about these and how to secure his rights.
If the house is in his name only, he absolutely shouldn't sell the house or add her to the deed. Her father clearly is not interested in his wellbeing, only hers/the kids.
There are endless reasons why one person ends up doing most of the work on the homefront. Because the other person refuses, or because they are happy in that role, or because they can’t say “no”, or their expectations are higher so they “do it so it’s done right” and so on.
They have three kids together and that seems to indicate that there is something bonding the two of them. Especially if the kids are young, the mother may be experiencing postpartum depression. Even if they are older, she may feel overwhelmed and numbing herself with the spending and avoiding responsibilities. I once read that (paraphrased because I can’t remember the exact words), “Even if a mother works full time outside the home to support the family while her husband stays home full time, it will still be her that is judged for the state of the house and the children.”.
Of course the impulse response to this is, “Times have changed and that’s not true,” but our society still does in fact judge mothers this way. It’s not fair, it’s not right, but working mothers often do feel that burden (whether they are in fact being judged or not.).
I would say. He needs to consult a family law attorney with a specialty in child welfare as a first stop. I say this because every action he may take to disentangle things will have a reaction from GF and Coupled with the fact that she has physical access to his kids and his house makes the situation very tricky.
I note this because if the spending and lack of household help is a SYMPTOM of something else going on, knowing that and addressing that could completely change the opinion of what to do LEGALLY.
Step One is to open a bank account at a different bank (NOT just a different branch of the same bank) in his name only. Joint accounts can be emptied by either party and it is completely above board legal.