This is a pretty fucking big thing to accuse someone of. I'd be coming for Comer if I was Hunter. That's straight slander.
Force the GOP to go to the DOJ and get shot down there. There is plenty of more relevant precedent…Jim Jordan, Trump, Mark Meadows, Pence etc who snubbed the 1/6 committee. Tit for Tat.
It depends on where I am. If it's a Brewpub I'll usually go for a porter or imperial stout, but if I'm not feeling alcohol and they have a sweet homemade lemonade, then I'd go that direction.
I always like ordering the baskets when I go out to eat. Never ordered the hand, but I do enjoy a good fried calamari basket. Cuz a lot of time when a restaurant is trying to go cheap they'll give you chips instead of fries, and with baskets you're generally always guaranteed fries, which I like. Especially when it comes to calamari, cuz I'm one of those people who's not a fan of marinara sauce. I much prefer a mix of cocktail sauce and tarter. Bonus points if they have a homemade hot sauce and even fancy salt blend. I like to dip my fries in tarter and cocktail. So yeah... if we're going to hell in a hand basket, I'm good, just make sure it comes comes with fries and side of tarter suace.
In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
It's amusing how they continually say it's about the nepotism and money, not the dick pics... yet this very click baity article from the washinon post LITTERALLY USES one of the stolen pics of Hunter as the thumbnail and above the fold pic.
“Biden family members attempted to sell access around the world, including individuals who were connected to the Chinese Communist Party, to enrich themselves to the detriment of American interests,” the lawmaker said. “If President Biden is compromised by deals with foreign adversaries and they are impacting his decision making, this is a threat to national security.”.