In order to better approach your question – on the antisemitism of Fascist Italy and the Italian people – I think we should keep in mind that there is a distinction to be made between antisemitism as a popular, intellectual, cultural phenomenon, whether “artistic” and elitarian or coarse expression of base instincts; and “institutional” antisemitism, that is antisemitism elevated to a legal, and even to a fundamental part of the institutions of the State. While the latter can certainly receive impulse from the former, and by converse encourage and facilitate the persistence of widespread racist and antisemitic convictions, a racial legislation does uphold or aspire to uphold discrimination as a fundamental trait of the State, not merely to protect antisemitism and racism within those institutions but to establish them as an unquestionable and manifest facts of nature.
Elevated to an institutional fact, antisemitism is no longer an “opinion” or a feeling which can be disputed or rejected, but an actual law of the State. And here arising to a part of the future “Constitution” of the Fascist Republic.
Enzo Collotti, in his more recent Il Fascismo e gli Ebrei. Le leggi razziali in Italia, 2006, points out, on the grounds of certain new contributions to historiography, that the general situation of the Jews had benefited from the eversion of traditional restrictive and oppressive legislation provoked by the French Revolution and subsequent Napoleonic regimes in Italy. Many of these specific antisemitic dispositions were not reintroduced even during the restoration period, in part at least due to the opposition of the liberal forces, and consequently the reluctance of the Governments to appear excessively accommodating with what was largely perceived among the rising urban bourgeoisie as a “religious” imposition, tied to the nefarious influences of “Jesuitism”. This would also contribute to explain the relative importance of Jews and people of Jewish ancestry in the Risorgimento process and their representation in the liberal establishment, as well as the distaste of a large portion of this same liberal establishment for a certain form of “Catholic” antisemitism.
Which is to say nothing of the actual extermination of Italian Jews (and non-Italian Jews), which represents another, certainly not unrelated, but distinct portion of the matter.
Given that I am not an expert on antisemitism – whether in Italy or outside of it – throughout the centuries, and that I am only passingly familiar with the specific context of antisemitism at the turn of the XX Century, I'll do my best to limit my excursions to a minimum.
The limited amount of literature on the issue of antisemitism – and racism – in Italy does in general maintain that the situation of the Italian Jews within post-unitary Italy was a relatively good one; that antisemitism was either a limited phenomenon, or sufficiently subdued not to manifest itself in excessive or violent ways. De Felice – who penned a first attempt to investigate the issue (Storia degli Ebrei Italiani sotto il Fascismo, 1961) – explained this state of things in part with the limited number of Italian Jews (that would be “practicing” Jews – the Italian authorities later concerned with the extermination of the Jews could claim larger numbers on “racial” grounds), somewhere around 50,000 according to 1921 records, and with their significant degree of integration (which is to say that, even from a less than sympathetic perspective, the image of the Italian Jews wasn't that of the Eastern “filthy Jews and lousy Mugiks” suffering under the oppressive Czarist and Bolshevik regimes).
That said, this is very far from providing a conclusive answer to the extent and character of prejudice and “covert” antisemitism in Italy during the early years of the XX Century, as covert and “popular” phenomenons are, due to their very nature, difficult to measure in an accurate way. The persistence of stereotypes - “the greedy Jew”, the “profiteer”, “Jewish bankers”, etc. - as well as a certain recurrent iconography assimilated to the “image of the Jew”, do not seem to allow a reading of popular antisemitism as a necessarily marginal force.
There is also the issue that ascribing a Jewish identity to someone is not an obvious nor a straightforward process. A man like liberal-conservative Sidney Sonnino – who certainly embodied many traits of traditional Italian liberalism of late XIX Century – is often cited as a Jew, despite being a Protestant; but the assimilation of public figures and personalities with an “ideal Jew” is a trait of late XIX and early XX Century public discourse which is difficult to reduce to unquestionable identities even in historical context. What does the accusation of “acting like a Jew” exactly mean? What are the “obscure Jewish influences” doing on the influenced institutions? Stereotypes do not mean anything unless you are familiar with their use. Which would suggest that people were able to understand them, at least in the context in which they were used.
I have been extremely concise here, due to reason of time. But I'll gladly answer any follow up question – if I can – later during the day, or tomorrow.
Thanks, this is an excellent reply! I just wanted to contribute by adding a quote from Mussolini, which I came by recently too, about Jews and antisemitism before the mid to late 1930s turn, to further illustrate what the concept of the race meant to fascists back then. Here (the text is from 1933 if I'm not mistaken), he is praising Oswald Spengler's work and noting he appreciates how the German could speak of 'the white race' without committing himself to 'Darwinian' theories of racial conflict:
These considerations also should illustrate to a degree why it would be incorrect to see in the antisemitic turn of the Regime – with the introduction of the Leggi Razziali in 1938 – a fundamental factor in how the Italian people, by and large, saw the relations between the Italian and German Regimes. It was, no doubt, a serious matter for those more or less directly affected by it; but both the somewhat mitigated execution of those measures and the limited number of citizens affected, meant that it could remain a marginal issue.
In general – and somewhat generalizing – the crucial point for the popular perception of the alignment between the two Regimes seems to have been the perspective of a new European conflict, with Mussolini's personal prestige seeing a considerable boost after his apparent triumph of Munich and episodes of popular unrest rising and subduing in direct correlation to the events of the war until the collapse of late 1942 and early 1943.
Additionally, as a general rule, there is a distinction between sharing broad stereotypes about a certain group and supporting, enforcing or partaking to their systematic spoliation, deportation and murder. So that there were, of course, Italian who – regardless of their personal views and beliefs – opposed both the discrimination, and the extermination of the Jews, some taking direct steps to protect and hide them. And there were others who did the opposite, denouncing them, either for personal interests, in observance to the law of the State, or due to racial and religious hatred.
It is also – at least from my perspective – incorrect to see the introduction of a racial legislation in Italy only as a consequence of the developments in the Italian-German relations. We know in fact that a new approach to “race matters” was already under examination due to the Italian acquisition of Ethiopia in 1935-36 and that, while the speed up of this process and its more antisemitic slant may have served to facilitate an ideological convergence with Nazism, the conceit of adopting “racial segregation” policies may have stemmed from the Regime's need to “integrate” the new lands within its somewhat rigid system.
This not to dispute the fact that antisemitism – and to a degree a popular antisemitic sentiment – played a role in the introduction of a “racial legislation”; but merely to highlight that one should not necessarily envision an exclusive relation of causality between antisemitic tendency and the “racist turn” of 1938.
'Spengler vuole nettamente differenziare il suo punto di vista da quello volgare, darwinistico o materialistico che è oggi di moda fra gli antisemiti d'Europa e d'America.' (quoted in De Felice, p. 41).
Reference: Renzo De Felice, Mussolini il Duce: Gli anni del consenso 1929-1936 (Torino: Giulio Einaudi, 1974).
I think it's fair to say that Mussolini's personal inclination remained favorable to a form of "cultural racism" common to many contemporary "theories of civilization", including Spengler's.
Translation by me: 'Spengler wants to clearly differentiate his point of view from the vulgar, Darwinian or materialist one that is now in fashion among the antisemites of Europe and America'.
At the same time, both this letter and his attempts at projecting a more "intellectual" image of Fascism during the early 1930s are telling of his desire to maintain some form of ideological primacy, shaken by the affirmation of the more aggressive and "unrefined" NationalSocialist movement.
In other words, one of the problem with evaluating Mussolini's ideological statements is the fact that they almost never are purely and abstractly "ideological", but tend to serve a specific purpose, and to operate from a specific angle - something which Mussolini was quite open to change and adapt, if necessary. Which means that very often the distinction is there because Mussolini explicitly wants to mark a distinction - but he would not, otherwise, maintain it as strongly.
The composition of the Manifesto della Razza, which - by almost universal consensus - is attributed to Mussolini himself, is quite telling of the instrumental and ultimately ambiguous character of this distinction, as it cobbled together quite a few conflicting ideas. From saying that.