If the child is in DCS' custody, it's completely the determination of DCS where the child will reside. If DCS does not believe you are a good placement for the child, then that's essentially that. You have no standing or ability to override or challenge DCS' decision on this matter. You can try to work with them to become a placement they favor for Ani, but they may not move her unless necessary.
As for communication, you can communicate with her in whatever way you can: phone, social media, etc. You cannot force DCS or the new foster home to allow communication between you and the foster child.
Yup and since DCS has made clear that reunification is the goal they may show little tolerance towards caregivers that disparage bio-mom by referring to her as "mombie" and "an actual monster". OP, you need to manage your expectations, play nice and prepare yourself for the likelihood that mom will play some role in Ani's life. This could start with supervised visitation and gradually move up to custody. In the meantime, once Y moves out or resolves her warrant, you can ask to be reconsidered for placement.
Reunification possibly with her sister BB, but not her mother. Her mother is now homeless (possibly moving out of state) and Ani is turning 17 in 3 months making her eligible for more independent living options within the system (such as Collaborative Care which is what she's been trying to do for months now).
Her mom doesn't have a house, and an extensive criminal background. I don't know if I'm not making this clear enough for you, but reunification is now no longer an option due to her extensive history of criminal behavior and child abuse.
I appreciate your frustration but DCS is looking out for Ani by preventing her from living with someone who has a warrant out for their arrest. As far as they're concerned, the fact that Y isn't on the lease is irrelevant.
I have made no negative remarks about this woman to anyone in DCS. Last night was the first time DCS has contacted me. Up until now, DCS was doing everything to keep her in BB's care with the intent of reunification with their mom. All references to her in this post are my own, and I acknowledge that. I'm not going to view the woman who left her daughter on my doorstep bruised and battered in a positive light, but as far as making that clear to DCS? I have been nothing but professional.
Y IS attending court. There is no will-they-or-won't-they-maybe "promise" happening here. Y's warrant is not a matter of some violent offense that she's actively avoiding. She also has no other pending charges or investigations on her record. She can move out at the earliest convenience if necessary, or we can wait until her court date for her charges to drop, and we're considering those options.
If you want to be reconsidered for placement, you need to show a material change in your circumstances. DCS seems to have made clear that Y offering to move and promising to attend court isn't sufficient.
And yes, I know DCS is looking out for Ani on paper at least... I still have no faith or trust in this system, however. This situation has only continued to further traumatize and revictimize Ani. And it doesn't seem to be getting better at all.
Reunification being the goal for DCS in this case is where a lot of the frustration lies for everyone else in this situation. Her mother has an extensive history of not only criminal behavior but also child abuse!
Pardon DCS for not sharing your conviction that your roommate will 100% attend court, have the charges against her dropped and most definitely move out. Until Y actually does any of these things, Ani moving in with you is a non-starter.
The Social Worker who came to my house gave us the impression that placement would be happening until her supervisor called and informed us that Y's warrant was the issue. I have no record whatsoever, my residence meets all the requirements, and I filled out the appropriate paperwork to make this happen. Y's name is not on the lease either, so it really feels like they were looking for a reason to deny placement and put her in the system.
I'm not looking to "force" DCS or her new foster home to do anything. I'm frustrated and looking for answers on dealing with a system that has refused to listen to, address, and advocate for the child in their custody.
It doesn't matter if Y's name was on the lease because you can be a legal tenant/resident of the home without being on the lease. And if you are, you have a right to live in the home until you are formally evicted by the courts, which can take months. For this reason, DCS doesn't care about who is on what lease. They care about who is residing in the home and therefore will have access to the child in the home. Therefore, one of the residents in the home having an unresolved warrant is basically an automatic denial, no matter whether or not that resident appears on lease paperwork. They don't really care whether or not Y was on the lease because that basically only matters to you and the landlord. They care that at that time, she lived there and had the warrant. So you can resolve that two ways: either show DCS that Y no longer lives there and ask to be reconsidered OR have Y resolve the warrant and ask to be reconsidered.
Y currently is set to resolve the warrant by the 28th. From what you've provided us, I assume it would be appropriate to ask to be reconsidered for placement after her court date?
Depending on how her court date goes, possibly. If she clears up everything and everything is dropped, then yes, it would be appropriate to ask to be reconsidered. But resolving the warrant will not automatically resolve all pending charges, and if she still has open charges against her, it's very likely that will result in a denial as well. In that case, it would be better for her to move out, and then have you ask to be reconsidered.
Almost certainly this is not the case. The foster system is overloaded. There aren't enough homes, and case workers generally look for ways to keep kids out of the system if possible.
Also, I can't lie about being frustrated here. I get denied because my roommate has a warrant for resisting arrest, but her mother can literally beat her bad enough to put her in the hospital and they will do everything in their power to get them back together until it no longer becomes an option. And this is the right? This is just?
As well, is blood relation also the issue here? Her mother has an extensive criminal background, but DCS has been going for reunification up until now (since she's homeless and possibly moving out of state).
Blood relation is something DCS considers, yes, but I am not sure it is the issue here. DCS almost always seeks to reunify a child with their parents, often for years, until it either becomes essentially an impossibility, the parent abandons the child or stops cooperating with reunification, or a strong argument can be made in favor of the child's best interests not being reunification. It is simply an incredibly high bar for DCS to meet to convince the court that reunification is not in the best interest of the child, and it not infrequently takes time for them to be able to meet that. I'm not sure that at this stage, you being blood related to Ani would have any impact. You would still likely be denied due to the open warrant in the home, and DCS would still pursue reunification first. But DCS might be working with you more if you were family because they would really, really be eyeing you as a long-term placement. DCS's priorities generally go: reunification with parents, then reunification with family, and if neither of those are options, placing the child outside the family. They exhaust the first two options before moving to the third because in the vast majority of cases, keeping kids with their family is what's best.