In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Because the 5 officers involved are all black and the "both sides" media wants to use it as proof that there is no racism involved when black people are killed by police.
It's all political photo op but still a stark difference to Trump who pretended to meet with the parents of a black teen who was shot and they had to release a statement saying they never met with him or planned too.
Yeah, Biden may constantly call for throwing more money at police departments without any strings being attached to it and not do anything about the thousands of others killed by police on his watch, but at least he has the good political sense to harass these poor people into a good photo op for himself.
So, is it the fire Trump started or 400 years of bastards, or a state issue that the federal government has no influence over? Because those sound mutually exclusive and like you're just throwing excuses out hoping one sticks.
Being better than Trump doesn't make you a good person. . Who gives a shit about Biden doing a photo op when the situation's objectively getting worse?
He's got responsibility for all this death, and no amount of crocodile tears and photo ops is going to change that.
he's gone out of his way to support police and say we need more of them and they need more money and make sure the federal government gave them that money without requiring civilian review boards or requiring them to ditch military equipment or anything else (beyond training they'll just ignore after they get the credit for it on their resumes).
Yeah, in a world where Training Day has been seen millions of times and GTA San Andreas sold millions of copies this shouldn't be a hard concept for people to understand, but they'd rather draw bullshit racist conclusions than think about changing the social order that's worked out so well for them.