In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Content feed algorithms seem particularly keen to steer users into black holes of unthinking emotional response.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Thats the problem it really dosent. If a infraction is reported by LEO/medical it is sent to state police and on to federal database. At that point you need a pardon or medical rights restoration. The problem is getting all the infractions reported. They vary state by state and some mandatory reporters don't even know or care. We don't have the infrastructure to enforce the regulations we already have. For example what county Office or mental health has the resources to digitize and report legacy infractions dating back to the 80's, they might not even have the records anymore. All this changes state to state and even its different on federal land like a base. We need to fix the system asap.
So it’s worse than what the guy suggested. Some fascist could have just never reported it like it should have because the shooters grandad supports fascism. Both are ways to suppress the information from doing what it is meant to do.
Soooo, you didn’t explain how it works. You just explained why it might not work. Nor do you offer any source that would say that what the guy suggested is impossible, like you’ve insinuated.
Yet still no evidence that what the dude said is impossible. You said so yourself that the information has to actually be sent. What’s stopping someone friendly to the former assemblyman from not sending his grandsons documents?
Red flags are generally pretty automatic, they aren't records that can be "sealed". I dont really think we're talking about anything in particular to be honest.
Thats a huge problem in itself, some county OMH commissioners in my state do the same thing. But still, no records (for example conviction or involuntary commitment)were sealed.