public school in the us. It’s not just at school where i can’t access google in my phone, it’s at home too. I’m not able to sign into my personal email on my phone because the only sign in option is through my schools classlink page.
I didn’t install anything, they linked it to my school google account and i was signed in on my phone. I did not give them permission to do anything to my phone. They didn’t give us a warning or anything. How is that legal?
Still, there is no legal issue here. You ask what are your options; you cannot sue them, you cannot report them to the police. They aren't committing any crimes by having you install something that blocks Google. Maybe it's intentional, maybe it's a mistake, maybe it's overreach. You've already spoken to the school. So talk to your parents. If enough parents contact the school asking them to modify things, they will likely modify things.
I’ve talked to my parents and we asked the school, they refuse to help.My friends have the same problem and they have talked to the school too. The school says removing it would require them to redo the system completely, so they said to just deal with it.
So your telling me it’s legal for my school to install software on my phone without my permission, track my personal web search history and refuse to remove it? Keep in mind im completely signed out of my school email.
I assume 1, but if it's 2 the answer is the same. Yes, from your description this sounds ridiculous. A third option is go to the next school board meeting to speak to the school board about it.
You don't know what "that" is yet. You don't know how or why this is happening, not exactly. And all things are legal unless the government passes a law making that specific thing illegal.
You're written, "I don’t really know how it works" so you don't know what happens. No one here has enough information to know what's going on, but phones are not designed to allow anyone to remotely install software that blocks apps. They are specifically designed to not do that. If your school somehow stumbled upon a way to remotely bypass Apple and Google's security measures, that's pretty impressive. But that's highly unlikely. What app do you get your school email with, is it the built-in email client for iOS or Android or a special app?