Not paying your dues can lead to the HOA taking enforcement actions, up to and including placing liens on the property. Paying your dues to some other entity, such as a trust or an escrow account not authorized by the rules of the HOA or by the board, is not paying your dues. Your state's HOA framework does not have a way to withhold pay in order to force your HOA to act, and, as an owner, you have some direct involvement in the HOA and should be relying on that.
If your HOA is not maintaining the amenities, the best remedy you have is to participate in the HOA's political process. Talk to the board about it, get your neighbours to do the same, request and read over the financials to find out where the money is being spent, show up for annual and special general meetings with prepared talking points, or even run for the board yourself to try to move change forwards directly. If you have a group of owners with similar interests, political change is well within your reach and will almost certainly be both faster and more effective than litigation.
However, you have a right as a member of the HOA to receive certain information, (included in the state's HOA laws ). If the HOA's board of directors are refusing access to the HOA's budget and you did not receive it at the last AGM, you need to get a lawyer involved.
I contacted them about seeing the financials and they told me that that's not something that they give out. I'm not sure what to do here since I'm paying into a service that I'm not getting and then I'm told not allowed to see the where the money is going.
The governing documents create a contract between you and the other owners (the association). Those documents will create a legal obligation for you to provide your assessments (dues payments), and any special assessments (like for the pool) to the association within the time frames defined.
I've never seen a set of documents that allow owners to refuse to contribute money to make repairs until those repairs are completed.
HOA’s are generally non-profit by default. If yours is a non-profit, they must provide their three most recent Forms 990 to you on demand. These forms are their income tax returns and the schedules contain mandatory disclosures regarding their salaries and various transactions.
Since it's a contract then, and that that money is specifically written in for the maintenance of that area, is this breach on their part since it's not being maintained?
Even if you attempted to defending your delinquency by a claim of a breach on the HOA's side, there are specific remedies for removal and replacement of the Board members if you and the rest of the community is in disagreement with their decisions and leadership. There is also a remedy for the delinquent payments you are considering, which probably include late fees, interest, legal fees, and eventual foreclosure. Unless something is illegally blocking your remedy, any judge I've ever known of would likely throw out your claim and award to the HOA.