In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
but if thats the case its not at all surprising since whenever someone on the left discovers and then distributes a private citizens name/number/address/fam members/employer/etc its rarely referred to as doxxing by the various outlets that carry the story and is rarely something that will get you banned for posting the data on social media. (few examples: libsoftiktok v. taylor lorez, twitter hunter biden laptop story v. canadaian convoy givesendgo hack, jkr gender critical opposition v. rittenhouse legal defense fund, and many many more if you care ill type out).
The GQP does pranks the same way a 12 year old bully would do it....with no chance of being held accountable for their actions, and in a way that causes the most real harm to others. Their basic lack of human empathy marks them for the devolution they are.
Republicans selected to represent the party do a thing. Both side-ists rush in to point to any random thing any random leftist does to pretend the not leftist Democratic Party is just as bad.
Does anyone even still actually fall for this brain dead both sides-ist crap these days? Who do you actually expect to suck in with this desperate straw clutching?
"both sides-ist" "whataboutisms" ...these are the battle cries of tribalists who claim to have convictions but dont actually want to be burdened by them.
you came to this thread cause you were upset that a repub campaign doxxed some opponents right? check this... in 2019 dem candidate julian castro's campaign tweeted out the names and employers of 44 people that had donated to trump. in 2020 dem candidate abraham aiyash tweeted the names of his opponents children and where they went to school.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
these things piss me off just like the OPs article does. and it also makes me mad when i see ppl in my party turning a blind eye to shit that will rot us from within.