Having cameras in a bar, even with audio capabilities, is fully legal, since there's no expectation of privacy. Even when the bar is closed. Especially when they're unconcealed and you've been informed of them.
The situation with the tips is more complicated. If they pocketed any amount of the tips, even when you have been compensated at or above minimum wage, then that's illegal. What might've happened is that they didn't document who got which tips and simply pooled it together and distributed it equally among everyone. Unlikely considering you got a nice even $18 an hour, but by no means impossible(they mightve topped it off for the inconvenience too). File a complaint with the wage and hour division, they'll investigate and figure out if your employer did properly distribute those tips. Only bad thing that'd come out of it is that it would burn a bridge with that employer.
With the tips, I know for a fact they weren't fairly distributed. On a busy night, I often make at least $20-$30 an hour just in tips, and I had 3 people tip $100 on their bills during that two week period. On top of that, we had two bartenders in training who were paid hourly and didn't get tips at all yet, so all of those tips would have only been distributed between three employees. There's no way someone made so little in tips that an even distribution between everyone would come out to just $18/hr. All of the bartenders have quit, because we ALL got much less on our checks than we expected. Not sure where the rest of that money went.
Yes, I was aware of the cameras, but wasn't aware they had audio capabilities. I was also shocked she used her ability to listen in on us to respond to a personal comment, not a security issue. But it does seem this was all legal, just kind of unethical in my opinion since we didn't know she was sitting at home listening to us all night.
I can't comment much on the ethical side of things, but I doubt it breaks any ethical rules and regulations, as this can be chalked up to a simple misunderstanding.
Provide them with as much relevant information as possible and encourage your fellow bartenders to do so as well, squeaky wheel gets the oil and all. Relevant information includes: