Hi, I’m Kim Vinnell and I recently joined Reuters from Al Jazeera English, where I was most recently a senior presenter for the network. I anchored countless stories, including the 2016 and 2020 U.S. presidential elections, the Beirut port blast, and the Taliban takeover of Afghanistan. I now host the Reuters World News podcast which launched today across platforms!
Whenever Reuters becomes aware of an error in a published story we correct it as soon as possible and then mark the story as corrected. While we don't correct stories without notice to the reader, we of course will update stories as we learn new information on the day of publication.
Prior to the studio, I spent years in the field as a correspondent, covering conflicts in Ukraine, Iraq and Syria, focusing on the humanitarian costs of conflict. I was based in Jerusalem during the 2014 war in Gaza. I also traversed Europe.
Yes, that has been ongoing coverage of Lebanon - but as I’m sure you know it’s never enough. The port blast was a tragedy emblematic of so many problems the country is facing. All the networks I’ve worked for, including Reuters, have in my opinion done a commendable job of continuing to cover the plight of the Lebanese people.
Hey I know this maybe out of topic but I saw you have anchored Beirut Port Blast so I wanted to ask if you have a report on how much the people in Lebanon and Beirut have been impacted after the Beirut Port Blast?
Also on a side note I know most places you have gone to as a correspondent have been or getting ruined by war as we speak but have you ever caught hidden glimpses of beauty of nature and humanity among those ruins?
As to your second question - I have seen human beings care for one another so intensely, even risk their lives for one another. That has been a beautiful thing. KV.
In Ukraine in 2014, when I was there, the fighting was pretty localized in the east. People fled if they could, but for those who chose stay, life was very hard. In Ukraine now there seems to be an international and coordinated effort to help Ukrainians who’ve been impacted by the conflict. KV.
Ha! Honestly this one is easy. This was new to me as a New Zealander, but in Ukraine, the gas stations often had hot dog stands. Which was revelatory. So I would say the best sandwich is on the road in Eastern Ukraine, from any open gas station, with an American hot dog in fresh bread. But if we’re going homestyle, I’m a huge roast beef, mustard and pickle fan. KV.
This is such a difficult question to answer. So many countries, from the Middle East to Asia to Africa and beyond, all have many opportunities AND hurdles in their way. KV.
I always stick to the facts. When, where, who, why, how. I use multiple sources - check, check, then check again. For analysis, I go to experts. In terms of being nonpartisan, it’s interesting. Growing up in New Zealand, political leanings were never part of anyone’s identity. Who you vote for was never part of any conversation, or a way of putting someone in a box. I think that’s helped me in my career internationally.
I'm curious about 2014 - how did you cover the fighting in Gaza from Jerusalem? I lived just a few kilometers away and from my memory we only had a few rocket alarms here and there.
As you probably know, most people read only the title, and that title tells a very different story than what really happened.
How much journalistic freedom do you get as a reporter, and if you have to conform to your boss' agenda in your reports?
Often times in Israel, I see Reuters report in an heavily biased manner, where for example, if a Palestinian 13 year old pulls out a knife and starts stabbing random Israel, and promptly gets shot for it, the title would usually be "IDF has killed a Palestinian kid"?
As Israelis who are surrounded by nations that will attack us the moment they smell blood, we are always 1 boycott away from being destroyed slaughtered, and this type of false reporting really hurts us.
Edit: I tried to search up the incident 3 days ago where a 14 year old Palestinians stabbed someone to death, but despite having 5 different articles about Israel that day, it somehow didn't make the news.
Remember, the politically correct term for this stuff is "anti zionism", if you say that other term you will be banned so remember that the former is totally ok.
Thanks so much for all your questions Would love ya’ll to check out the Reuters World News podcast, where I’ll be bringing you everything you need to know about the world’s news, in a daily ten-minute briefing. Reuters has more than 2,500 journalists on the ground around the globe - so you’ll get reporting you won’t find elsewhere: And you can.
From the experts I’ve spoken to, everyone is expecting the war in Ukraine to enter a new phase. War in winter is difficult - logistically there is snow and ice, roads and fields become hard to traverse, everything gets muddy, equipment gets harder to maintain, not to mention morale. I would hesitate to guess when this war will end, because I honestly did not foresee Putin invading like he did, when he did. Re: Sweden and Finland joining NATO, I believe Finland may join first, because of Turkey’s demands on Sweden. Although Jens Stoltenberg seems to be putting the hard word on Turkey now:
I wouldn’t say suppressed but intimidated for sure. You have to be careful when you’re reporting in lots of places. If governments take serious offense at your reporting, they can revoke your media accreditation, and make life very difficult for you. You can even be kicked out of the country. It happens all the time. The important thing to remember in my opinion - is to tell the FACTS. Stick to the truth, and give all sides the right of reply. I’ve yet to be booted out of a country. But who knows, I’ve still got a few years left in me yet! KV.