OP - not your lawyer, but you should be aware of a couple of important CA-specific self-help options for getting him to leave you alone. For example, here are some legal explanations for your State's domestic violence/civil harassment restraining orders [ and [ Additionally, if your ex is physically on your property [and not just standing on a public street or sidewalk], you can always call the police for trespassing and asked to have him removed from your property [see subsection (O).
Without any knowledge of the specific HOA bylaws, it's basically impossible to know "what's best" in this situation other than a general knowledge that everyone is likely better off if the ex is convinced - regardless of how or by whom - to stop hanging around OP's house in an annoying or harassing way. For all we know, the HOA has insane bylaws about taking care of possible public nuisances and is full of [expletives] who would actually fine her if she didn't take reasonable steps to alleviate the nuisance/disturbance that is [apparently] taking place on her property...such as by filing a restraining order or calling the cops. At the end of the day, there are several steps several entities can take to address the problem. But OP can only control OP's actions and has no control over what her neighbors do/don't do to deal with the ex. I genuinely can't think of a scenario where it's in her best interest to just hope someone else makes him go away when she has some pretty easy-to-execute and reasonable options, and when in a worst case scenario her HOA bylaws might [reasonably or not] hold her responsible for problems stemming from her property.
Obviously, you should absolutely consult with a licensed attorney in your state if the HOA starts pressing. But honestly if he's such a nuisance that neighbors are threatening HOA action, I'm wondering why THEY haven't called the cops on him for disturbing the peace or creating a public nuisance. They have options, too. And it doesn't exactly seem like you'd vouch for the guy if the cops were to come around telling him to leave.
I'm also guessing that her neighbors know absolutely nothing about how the HOA would treat this and are just talking out of their asses.
They'd be well-served to approach the HOA themselves (after consultation with counsel perhaps) and ask about what to do in such an instance.
I do not disagree he is harassing. I just meant that if he is on public property, how can they threaten her with action. If someone parks in front of my house I cannot "just make them leave" as it is not my property. Which limits.