I'm surprised to hear that your trust fund ex doesn't have a lawyer, or that they're ignoring their lawyer's advice.
It's unlikely he'll get support if he was unemployed before he married you and remains unemployed with substantially the same assets today, and spousal support on $37,000 of income is going to be very limited anyways. Furthermore, any support obligation could be computed on the basis that he could theoretically earn minimum wage, even though he chooses not to, unless there's a reason he _can't_ work full-time. The risks appear small.
No, I’m 26 and that is my current boyfriend. This is my ex, I was 18 to his 30 at the time which is part of how he was able to manipulate me into a domestic partnership. He offered me a place to stay when I was in a bad situation and a couple months later asked me out while I was crying and cuddling him. Shortly after he was offering to domestically partner as a way to ensure I was financially secure if we broke up. Retrospect it was bullshit and I’m an idiot.
Your ex is manipulative. Are you absolutely sure that you have a legal union according to the state of California? First just confirm that your license has been filed with the county.
In that case, 8 year partnership in California, you definitely want to consult a lawyer. You may not have the money for it, but if your soon-to-be-ex is vindictive, I don’t think you can afford not to talk to a lawyer.
On the other hand, this is a pretty clear indication that no matter how amicable your divorce has been up to this point, it's probably not going to be amicable going forwards. A lawyer is probably a good idea.
On the third hand, a guinea pig costs about $50. Spousal support can cost a lot more than that, and so can a lawyer. If he's willing to waive support in writing, and if he doesn't get the guinea pig until the divorce and the division of assets is final, then that may be the cheapest way forwards. My concern with this is that I doubt a demand like this will be the last unreasonable demand he makes, so giving an inch could well mean he wants a mile next, dragging things out.