Generic answer, as long as it can be stored in such a way that you don't have access to it, potentially.
In general, you can never be in actual or constructive possession of any firearm. So she can buy it, but it has to be stored in a way that you have no access to. If it's ever taken out of its storage, you can never touch it, or have even tangential control over it. That means, if it's in the car, you are not, or it's in a locked case in the trunk with only your wife (who is driving the car) has the only key.
Your best bet would be to contact an attorney specializing in firearms law in your area, as they will have a better understanding of what state law & federal allows in your specific case.
You will likely want to consult a criminal defense attorney to determine if your specific situation meets the criteria for non-possession. And have their number on hand if the firearm is anywhere near you, just in case.
You are not allowed to have possession of it. This includes constructive possession where, even if you never touch it, if it can be proven you could have had easy access to it, you could still be charged.
That would probably be safer than a key or code on the safe which can be shared. It would also probably be a good idea to have it kept in a room/location he normally doesn't use (e.g. not the bedroom). She shouldn't take it out to clean it, etc. when he is home. And should definitely not drive with it in the car.
I would recommend being very, very careful. At a minimum, the gun needs to be kept locked up in a way that you can prove you never had or could have had access to it. Unless she absolutely needs this for safety, it’s probably best not to go down this risky path. People in your situation have been charged and convicted for possession of a firearm they never touched in their lives.
Personally, if I was in his situation, I wouldn't risk it. But if he is in high risk area where having a gun at home for self defense is important to his wife, and him for his wife, the concern could outweigh the risks. But he needs to do everything he can to protect himself from ever being considered to have possession of the gun.
The answers about control and constructive possession are all issues that will be decided by the courts when your case comes to trial. If a cop finds out that you are a felon and there's a firearm in the house, you're violated and are going back to jail. The cops don't care. In their mind Felon + Firearm = Handcuffs and there's nothing you can do about it. You will need to prove your innocence in court because you're guilty going in. Your lawyer will have to show control and possession and you may be released afterwards, but you'll be sitting in jail until that time.
At the end of the day, it comes down to a lot of unknown variables. Odds are, even without those precautions, it's unlikely it would become an issue. BUT, if something happened where it did become one, the consequences can be severe. Obviously we know nothing about the OP or his wife, but lets say hypothetically someone in his position really pissed off his wife, she took the gun out and then called the police about a domestic disturbance, and when they arrived she said he was a convicted felon and there was a gun in the house. There is a good chance he could be arrested and be in a very bad predicament.