You - and your Dad- might also be interested in this of Zinn in Dissent magazine. Note this isn't what Bill O'Reilly thinks of him, but what's in an openly left-leaning magazine.
You won't find many historians who think much of Zinn. I myself would like to, I don't know, hire ninjas to replace every copy of Zinn with Jill Lepore's These Truths. Unlike Zinn, she's a real historian, actually does research. If Zinn's big complaint was that the common people of the US have been neglected in the history books, she does her best to include them.
Another alternative would be Eric Finer and Story of American Freedom (he also has Give Me Liberty which I believe is more of a textbook). Foner is an excellent and well-regarded academic historian who draws heavily on Marxist historical models, and is a great writer, so he basically is a better version of Zinn.
I read that critique you linked, and it seems like Zinn has a very binary view of American history: winners (elites) vs losers (workers). I get the impression that he tells events of how the working class is oppressed by the ruling class, but doesn't offer further analysis as to how these events happened and why. I'll definitely send it to my dad and see what he thinks.
Thanks for the recommendation! My dad's interested in reading it too after I showed him this thread.
This isn't true, and if you're going to make such a bold accusation like that, you ought to have sources to back it up.
Here are just the sources used in Chapter 1 of her book. There are many, many more in the subsequent chapters, and there isn't a single chapter in the book that doesn't mention the relationship between the indigenous nations and the European colonists/United States of America during each time frame being discussed. Far from "less than ten references to indigenous groups and people" in the book, there are many more than ten references to indigenous people in the introduction alone.
Chapter 1 uses at least 19 sources while referring to the relationship between indigenous nations and European colonists, and these are only the sources that I would consider sources on the indigenous people themselves. She also cites several more contemporary sources to exemplify the negative attitudes that many European colonists had toward the indigenous people at the time of colonization, such as the diaries of Christopher Columbus, to show the roots of how the relationship deteriorated from the start:
Ramón Pané, An Account of the Antiquities of the Indians [1498], ed. José Juan Arrom, trans. Susan C. Griswold (Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 1999).
Alvin M. Josephy Jr., America in 1492: The World of the Indian Peoples before the Arrival of Columbus (New York: Vintage Books, 1991).
Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo, Historia General y Natural de las Indias, as excerpted in 1492: Discovery, Invasion, Encounter: Sources and Interpretations, ed. Marvin Lunefeld (1529; Lexinon, MA: D.C. Heath and Company, 1991).
Irving Rouse, The Tainos: Rise and Decline of the People Who Greeted Columbus (New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 1992).
Daniel K. Richter, Facing East from Indian Country: A Native History of Early America (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2001).
Inga Clendinnen, Ambivalent Conquests: Maya and Spaniard in Yucatan, 1517–1570 (New York: Cambridge University Press, 1987).
Daniel K. Richter, Before the Revolution: America’s Ancient Pasts (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2011).
Stephen Greenblatt, Marvelous Possessions: The Wonder of the New World (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1991).
Tzvetan Todorov, The Conquest of America: The Question of the Other, trans. Richard Howard (New York: Harper and Row, 1984).
J. H. Elliott, The Old World and the New, 1492–1650 (1970; New York: Cambridge University Press, 1992), 10.
Alfred W. Crosby, The Columbian Exchange: Biological Consequences of 1492 (Westport, CT: Greenwood, 1972).
Jeffrey Ostler, “Genocide and American Indian History,” Oxford Research Encyclopedia of American History (New York: Oxford University Press, 2016).
Alfred W. Crosby, Ecological Imperialism: Biological Expansion of Europe, 900–1900 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1986).