In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
His plan is to add a public option (literal government provided healthcare) and transition to a place where most people have public option and people can add extra coverage privately if they want. That’s not neoliberalism in any way.
First of all acting like healthcare is the only thing that matters wrt neoliberalism is a joke. It really has nothing at all to do with healthcare.
Further, no single payer plan yet released has an answer to how we will get there from where we are today.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
This is plainly untrue. Look at Bernie Sanders' plan which does it in 4 years. Or Elizabeth Warren's plan which from memory does it in 2.
He attacks progressive ideas from the right. He attacks free college, sounding almost identical to Mitch McConnell. And he attacks Medicare for All as authoritarian, which is laughably incorrect and again is typical Republican framing.
He wants to maintain the market for the disgusting, price-gouging coverage-denying private insurance industry. That market-based solution is garbage and screams neoliberalism. I get it though, he has to protect the interests of the more than 60 billionaires who support him.
The guy literally has a plan that maintains the private insurance industry. Market-based solutions are a key tenet to neoliberalism and is fundamentally a right-wing solution to something that shouldn't have a profit motive. The profits they then use to donate to politicians to corrupt the political system. Billionaires and multi-millionaires make their money from exploiting and extracting wealth from the working class. Ask yourself, why do over 60 billionaires support Buttigieg?
This website doesn't really do journalism when it comes to Buttigieg. It's almost always just puff pieces that have no substance and of course nothing about his neoliberal policies, or his use of GOP talking points that he uses to attack progressive policies.
Biden made a deal to put him in his cabinet which would then open doors for him to either keep working in Washinon or run his own campaign on something.
Being in Washinon means he also establishes connections and is being introduced to people who would be willing to help him in the future.
Of all the people qualified to head DoT, why Buttigieg? Surly there were more qualified candidates. But Biden put him in a position that wouldn’t cause as much controversy which might have happened if he put him as, say, Secretary of State.
He didn’t run to win. He did it give himself a name on the national stage which is why he ended up supporting Biden.
Edit: I also don’t think he’s doing a bad job. And he’s certainly more aggressive when he appears on Fox News than others. Like I said, he’s making a name for himself on the National stage.
But let’s be honest, in a campaign, Biden NEEDED someone like Mayor Pete because of Biden’s past bills and comments regarding POC and the LGBTQ community.
Shame he didn't do much as mayor apart from cosmetic changes. The ad Biden ran against him was a hilarious and correct put down of Buttigieg and his ineffectiveness.
A lot of people were attacking Biden and accusing him of supporting the LGBTQ community because it was now “convenient” to do so. And he needed to shut out those comments.
Nothing wrong with it. It SHOULD be more diverse. I still think there were more qualified candidates for SoT but I have no complaints with his choice so far. Pete has been pretty good at it and has pushed for more infrastructure funding.
Of all the people qualified to head DoT, why Buttigieg? Surly there were more qualified candidates. But Biden put him in a position that wouldn’t cause as much controversy which might have happened if he put him as, say, Secretary of State.
Edit: I also don’t think he’s doing a bad job. And he’s certainly more aggressive when he appears on Fox News than others. Like I said, he’s making a name for himself on the National stage.
I mean, we’ve seen it before in politics. Hell, I’ve personally seen it before in politics being bartered.