I want to know all of my options. I also submitted a fire alarm inspections request but not sure i did it right. I went to request a building wide inspection but I think it's individual only.
My local fire chief was extremely helpful when my slumlord landlord nailed an emergency exit door closed (only two in the entire building) because he didn't want to hire someone to hang a door correctly. It was fixed within hours.
Ok i called the fire department and they told me I have to go through 311. How do you get to the local fire chief? It might be a silly question I called the FDNY headquarters number with the metro tech business location.
Did this, I just wanted to know if there were additional things. I feel these people get away with everything. I reported them for the first fire. Here I am in another fire in the same exact situation. What did that accomplish?
That's the thing though. I test them all. The test button always works. They seem to work but none of them ever do. I even pressed it on this one after the fire. It worked. But it never went off during the fire at all. Every fire alarm they have ever given me has not worked. The test always does. They come in press test and argue with me that it works. I will try to hold smoke under it thanks.
Ok i pushed the test button again it works, but then i burned a wooden pick over a candle right beneath it could see the smoke for two minutes and nothing at all not a chirp. This is the new one that they just gave me.
I don't understand. I asked for legal advice, not how to make my alarm go off. I suffered an actual fire and my alarm did not go off. How is trying to force it to go off with a match useful, when I just went through an actual fire and it did not go off? Are These posts meant to insinuate my smoke detector issue is my fault, that the inadequacy of the fire prevention tools in my building are my fault, and everyone should be trapped in a burning building? don't see how any of this is relevant to the fact that at least 20 people had failed alarms, no real building alarm, and we were all stuck inside of a burning building.
Typically striking a match and blowing it out right below it has always set the alarms off for me during my college prank days. holder it right below, a few seconds of the black smoke should do. Edit: maybe have someone shoot a video of u doing it and it not working. Meanwhile you can buy your own 9v battery alarm on Amazon and install it. You can even get a fancy Google nest or smth as long as you have it not replace your apt one, it works in parallel and you have little repair to remove it when you move out.
The test button only tests if the test button and the siren works, not the sensor. So to test the sensor you have to simulate smoke from a fire, burning a match should do that more than a candle. Esp once the match is blown out and a thick dark smoke is present. If it doesn't then there is a problem in the current alarm system and you can inform your landlord of it. Legal remedies can make you feel whole sometime in the future. Given your trauma, I mentioned testing with smoke and even getting your own smoke detector for your piece of mind until then. This nested thread seemed to be going off a tangent from your legal advice. I respond to the comment and not the original post.
today I went to 50 apartments not done 42 alarms did not go off. People did not hear the hallway alarm, many people were upset. Two hallways didn't have working alarms at all. My super stalked me. Every time i went to a new floor he found me and followed me as I tried to petition my neighbors I got their signatures and phone numbers. He talked me and stood there trying to get people not to talk then he called the police on me who obviously couldn't do anything. Out of 50 apartments 42 alarms did not go off. I have 38 signatures and still 100 to go. Also I learned they they refuse to change the old electrical outlets of rent control apartments. The fire was electrical. This was the second major electrical fire in my building. My super harassed me, talked me, and tried to get me to stop by called the police. The tenants thanked me no one felt harassed and said it was brave what i was doing for the entire building. They were upset and trumatized and most felt like it was very unsafe and they had no alarms. Who is the right authority to give all of the signatures, phone numbers, and apartments to when I am done?
That is my alarm says it is photoelectric. It is also supposed to monitor CO. I had CO in my apartment there was a lot of smoke.
No one told us, we were left in a smoke engulfed building with a single hallway alarm in the hallway that no one could hear. We have a doorman and intercom no one alerted us at all. Some people found out from a citizen app.
I think my personal alarm is somewhat irrelevant in the end as i said many did not work. The hallway alarm was inadequate. it was 2AM none of my neighbors were alerted or were woken up by that alarm.
This wasn't a smoldering fire. It was a full blown electrical fire. They had to pull the resident out via hook and ladder and her apartment is totally gone.
The hallway was in a thick blanket of smoke. You really couldn't go out there without oxygen. People die running through smoke filled stairs and hallways. We are 17 floors up. We could not go down by the time any of us somehow figured out that the building was on fire without any adequate alarms.