so am copying an older answer in with some slight modifications (although phrasing reflects the original):
I'm going to shift gears here and move centuries and an ocean away for the example that perhaps best illustrates this. In the Ottoman Empire, eslavery looked quite different from the chattel slavery of America, and slaves could, at first appearance, gain great status and power, such as Ibrahim Pasha, who rose to be the Grand Vizer of the Sultan, one of the highest positions in the entire empire. But he was still a slave, and still deprived of his own power, and his own sense of self. This is best demonstrated by an incident in his life where he had witnessed the commission of a crime, but at the trial, when he showed up to testify, he was prohibited from doing so. As a slave, he had no self, and no innate honor, so despite his lofty position, his words had no validity in the court, only when they were spoken on behalf of the Sultan. He was nothing more than an instrument for someone else to exercise power, a literal extension of the Sultan's person, but entirely unable to exercise his own independent of that role. In his own role, he simply had to stood there and be humiliated by a minor court functionary who denied him from testifying, and then hear the Sultan endorse the decision, a cruel reminder that he was in fact still the lowest of the low.
In addition to the above, which is mostly focused on treatment in conceptual terms, I have had a little time this morning to sit down and do a brief link round-up, so I would also point to several other answers of mine which analyze different aspects of enslaved life in the slave south and thus get to some of the more particulars:
Now, to be clear, some enslavers were, by objective measures, less cruel than others. There is no disputing that, although it is hardly a mark in the institutions favor. Those forced to slog through Uncle Tom's Cabin in high school may recall how the uncertainty of ones' position, Tom for a time having a comparatively nice existence which then was pulled out from under him due to forces outside his control being one of the many evils described by the abolitionist tract. In point of fact that, to focus on that misses the point entirely of what slavery is, which is what the historian Orlando Patterson terms "social death". It is not just the loss of power, but the loss of self. Slave systems throughout history have varied greatly, but the status of the slave as a socially dead person is the most consistent part, as well as that makes any claim of "nice" or "family" ring hollow.
Now, as I said, this is wildly different from chattel slavery, but I use it to undercut what "nice" means here. When your teacher says that slave owners were "nice", he means that they used the whip less, or perhaps that when they did feel it necessary, they allowed the wounds to be dressed immediately. What he doesn't mean is that they recognized their enslaved persons as full human beings. The mere fact that they owned another person at all gives that the lie, as in doing so they inherently participated in a system that was perpetuated the dehumanization of their human property.
And to be sure, the slaves themselves were aware of this, even if the enslavers might be oblivious. In the recollections of his period of enslavement, Frederick Douglass remembered how his owner would occasionally give him a penny or two (), but as Douglass relates:
That is to say, from the point of view of the enslaved, the enslaver 'being nice' wasn't simply "being nice". It was also a reminder of their condition. This goes far beyond things like handing out a coin, but also gets to the core issue of punishments. When someone speaks about a slave owner being "nice", they mean, as I noted above, that punishment was rare or administered lightly. This doesn't mean punishment never happened.
While common to hear, it is also very wrong. Aside from being factually wrong, they are morally wrong, peddling what is nothing more than outright apologia for American slavery that has been peddled for centuries, and originated within the community of enslavers seeking to justify their ownership of another human being both to themselves and to others.
The idea of "the faithful slave" is an endemic one in Southern literature of the antebellum period, and of apologia since then, and this idea of treating them like family is a central component of it. Aside from entirely missing the inherent power imbalance and denial of basic humanity of the enslaved persons, it also misses the destruction wrought on the real families of the enslaved persons by slavery, thousands upon thousands of them broken up by selling part of a family group elsewhere. Treating their slaves "like family" had nothing to do with the real affection you hold for your partner, for your children, for your siblings, for your parents... It was about casting the enslaved person in the idealized image of loyal, faithful servant who knew their place at the bottom of the household hierarchy, and was defined entirely in their relation to white society, with no concern for the black society of which they were actually a part.
One of the most memorable moments of reading Huck Finn in school was the moments he came to think of Jim as a human, as a man. I’d always considered slavery in more abstract terms, focusing on the violence and forced labor. It wasn’t until then that I realized they had the same relationship as livestock.
And even the mere threat was often enough, the potential for violence omnipresent reminder of their condition. One of the most common refrains you find about plantations where the master was "nice" was that the rarity of actual violence was undergirded still by the threat of it, or even worse, by the promise of being sold somewhere else: not only a place where punishment was much worse, but also breaking up families. This was especially the case in the Upper South, where it was generally true that slaves were less brutalized, and numerous recollections of enslaved persons mention the threat of "being sold down river" as punishment for disobedience, rumors of the plantations in the Deep South, and the severity of punishment one could expect there, used to keep them in line. This was hardly an empty threat either, and hardly alien to the "nice" enslavers, who even if they didn't have a stomach for harsh punishment were hardly averse to essentially outsourcing it.
(This in particular is relevant in how coercive non-violence played a key element in enslavement, especially with smallholders).
Patterson is of course the place to start, and recently On Human Bondage: After Slavery and Social Death came out, which is an edited volume reflecting on Patterson's original work with a number of essays contributed by scholars looking both at its place in the historiography, and where the idea as evolved since then, including a reflective essay by Patterson himself. It is very much focused on slavery, in particular, which is my own focus (well, if you want to get technical I'm a terrible social historian who is more interested in the white elite planter class, but you need to understand American slavery to understand them), so I can't recommend any particular readings which expand the concept elsewhere, although it wouldn't surprise me if there are. You might want to try /r/AskSocialScience for that though.
One infamous example I would use is that of Robert E. Lee. Although the popular image of him is that of the conflicted, but honorable, Southern gentleman who held a personal dislike for slavery, this is a fairly erroneous picture in a number of ways, but he is generally held up as a "nice" slave owner, which again, is an oxymoron. What I would focus on here specifically is his use of punishment though, specifically when to of the people that his family owned tried to escape and gain their freedom but were captured and brought back. He certainly didn't hold back on a whipping for either of them, and he supposedly ordered that the wounds be doused in salt-water afterwards as well for an additional burst of pain. Even if we talk only in comparative terms, and state that as far as slave owners go Lee was hardly the worst of them, that is small consolation to the two men who wanted only freedom, and were cruelly punished in their attempt to gain it. A slaveowner being "nice" only went so far as the enslaved persons accepted their place as a slave. A master may not have had to use the whip much, but that didn't change the fact that the enslaved persons were still enslaved, and that their status was held up by the inherent violence of the system.
Wyatt-Brown, Bertram, Southern Honor: Ethics and Behavior in the Old South. Oxford University Press, 1982.
A book I would recommend unreservedly. It is absolutely excellent. Also this being a repost of an earlier answer, had I read They Were Her Property before originally writing it, it definitely has some relevance here and might have ended up being cited.
Z, seems like a good place to ask, do you recommend They Were Her Property: White Women as Slave Owners in the American South? I came across the title while researching books on slavery. It looks like a good investigation into the violence needed to maintain, and benefit of, slavery for owners outside the normal myths of the old south. You might have recommended it before, but I can't recall.
McElya, Micki. Clinging to Mammy: The Faithful Slave in Twentieth-century America. Harvard University Press, 2007.
Do you have any book / paper /author recommendations about social death in particular? I feel like I've read similar ideas re prison abolition and the justice system in the US, do you know where a good starting point to get deeper on that would be?
That said, there are examples of slaveowners who came about in their thinking, and became abolitionists, and I would highlight as they in particular give force to the first statement.