In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
IMO: Yes Presidents should still have the power to unilaterally act during a crisis... the democratic process is often too slow and fraught with endless debates, arguing, and gerrymandering (edit: Filibusters) to get things done when they need to get done NOW.
Suspending evictions of people who were forced out of jobs due to covid, for example, was absolutely a good thing. Suspennding debt repayment because the workplace was massively effected was a good thing. Completely forgiving the debt was debatable, and certainly declaring an emergency to build a wall that was never going to work was out of bounds.
Using emergencies as a 'Tactic', should have some kind of oversight, but not to the degree of preventing its use when it's needed. I do like the idea of auto-expiring periods where extensions need to be confirmed.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It's a little different though because the democratic process isn't so slow. Often times parties have a majority and can really pass any bill they want.
Yes, we're starting to see a trend where an emergency is declared or taken advantage of in order to get through a policy decision that Presidents can't get through Congress. That wasn't the intent of it, the goal is to give the President some leeway to respond quickly to emergencies while Congress spins up to provide longer-lasting relief. Some more guardrails or restrictions on emergency powers are needed.
In Canada they have auto-expiring periods of emergency periods, that then need to be extended. They also tend to have parliamentary commissions after the fact that investigate the use of power and what exactly was done and the impacts.