Almost everyone who says they're going to sue won't. Don't worry about it unless you get a summons. Do not ignore a summons.
New Mexico has a $10,000 small claims court limit. If he wants to sue you for more than that, he needs to sue you in big boy court and that means somehow finding a lawyer who is willing to actually do the deed.
Follow up with your insurance, get them to send a letter regarding the resolution of your dispute. Something that says that they contacted the dentist and asked him to provide evidence he performed the services he was billing for and couldn't.
Those will be key pieces of information in any defamation suit, the one which will almost certainly never materialize.
Keep that letter for your records. Get a screenshot of the review right now on the off chance that he somehow gets it removed. Keep that for your records. Get screenshots of the other reviews as well.
Eh, might as well. If it's just a threat of legal action there probably wouldn't be anything relevant there, though if the meanderings of court resulted in the dentist stupidly denying they ever made such a call, evidence of the calls existence would not make for a very happy judge.
You might also want to check if he is a real dentist, and currently licensed, and check to see if a complaint has ever been filed with the disciplinary board that oversees dentists in NM.
Not a lawyer, but I have a question in regards to record keeping. Does saving that voicemail serve OP any purpose as well? Is that something useful in court?
You can look up county court records for civil malpractice cases filed against him, or any other cases where he was the defendant. Or if he was the plaintiff if he sued someone else.
This. Please look into the Dental Boards of your NM and check to see if he is a real dentist and currently licensed. Either way, please reach out to them and leave a complaint. They take this type of situation extremely seriously and will discipline the dentist in a way they see fit.
Also good research to do on the next professional you go see. (Especially if they are running operations out of a trailer.).