The first thing to remember is going to sound really stupid once I’ve said it, but it’s this...an army is usually going to be a lot more concerned with their enemy moving troops forward than moving troops backwards. An advancing column of fresh, fit men is of more immediate concern than a retreating one full of men who are wounded and exhausted. Exhausted, injured men can barely fight.
Some of these are front line trenches, facing out onto barbed wire and no man’s land. A “support” trench is behind that, for the times when the front trench needs to be reinforced RIGHT NOW. Men could move from the support trench to the front to reinforce particularly vulnerable spots, or else withdraw from the front trench when it was under attack to regroup in the second line and launch the counterattack.
Artillery MAY try to hit men moving out, if they thought they‘d have the range, but often they’d focus on the front proper trying to damage the first line of defences, or on things like machine gun nests/artillery emplacements trying to take them out to make it less costly when their own men attacked.
Some “reserve” trenches sit a little further back from the support line (full of men and supplies who haven’t been moved to the hairy bits of the action yet, but who will be the next ones to rotate forward to the support trench or front line when someone else needs a rest or additional reinforcement) and there are “communications” trenches and “travel” trenches running the other way, connecting the front with the support and reserve lines.
Men could rest in camp there, training in preparation for their move back into reserve trenches and eventually to the front line. Dressing stations and field ambulance depots would also be there or in the reserve trenches - close enough to send crews forward to the front or support trenches to recover wounded, close enough for the wounded and sick to either walk out themselves or be carried on stretchers to reach the care they needed, but also far enough back that casualties were unlikely to be shot to shit again while they were still being treated for the first time. More permanent medical facilities, where men could be for weeks or months rather than hours or days, would be reached by the nearest railhead, river barge or road.
When you get to the rear of the web, a few miles away from the front...that’s RIGHT at the outer edge of enemy artillery range. You could hear it, and may have been able to see a glow at night as shells were shot off, but it would be a very, VERY difficult distance for all but the longest-range enemy guns to make accurately. That’s where you can come into the open, knowing they can’t reach you.
Second... may help you visualise some of what you need. It’s a map used by British command in the 1916 Somme offensive. Can you see how it’s been overlaid with a squiggling mess of interconnected trenches?
It’s not three distinct and separate lines, but more like a spider’s web or a net. By the end of 1918, the web could be shockingly elaborate.
It’s also worth pointing out that the ”squiggliness“ of the lines on the map was not a stylistic choice or an accident. The trenches on the ground doglegged back and forth almost continuously, because every corner allowed somewhere to shelter if the trench you were in was under fire while you were trying to move through it.
Men who had been granted leave would work their way to the rear of the trench net and use the same rail or road connection - not necessarily to go home (they might only have a week or two of leave, which is not much when going home eats up three days travel) but perhaps to go to a town away from the front where they could have a real wash, eat real food, meet a pretty French girl who would love them passionately and deeply for a week and then forget they existed.
One historian (Paul Fussell) made an estimate that if EVERY trench dug by every combatant on the Western Front was straightened out and laid end to end they'd cover about 35 thousand miles.
The German trenches often tended to be much more complex, much more sprawling networks - in that photograph, they get the huge ones in the bottom corner!
It's also worth pointing out that even though the trenches didn't advance very much geographically, they were still being worked on and extended almost constantly. That was a huge part of what men in the trenches did every day; making running repairs and adding further structural reinforcement to their own little sector of trench was a constant job, since it was the only way to be sure they might keep their feet dry, have a dugout protected and comfortable enough to sleep in or get hot food from the field kitchens in the rear trenches to the front quickly before it got cold. Year by year they just kept getting bigger and more squiggly.
Sorry for the unclear question, I just meant the trenches in the aerial view picture you shared. Specifically the German ones.
I'm wondering because it would be helpful to get an image of what Fritz von Lossberg outlines in an order he issued that he put in his war memoirs and whether or not this picture would be helpful for that.
The depth of the regimental sector should be divided into three Battalions: combat, ready and reserve.
The typical formation of a battalion should be 3 companies as the width and the depth should be organized as such: half platoon in forward most crater line, followed by a platoon, another half platoon and a full platoon.
The part that gets me is the platoon part, specifically if they all are in trenches in that depth. The way he designates the forward most half platoon to occupy the forward most crater line instead of trench line is also something I'm wondering about.
The front stretched from the North Sea coast of Belgium to the border between Alsace and Switzerland, so about 440 miles if you were driving it now. However, it was full of outward bulging salients, attempts to go around obstacles rather than through them, lines that had been dug and then abandoned...
Any assistance you can provide would be most appreciated, if you want me to quote him just ask and I'll do it some time tomorrow as I am unable atm.
The nominal front line or “firing trench” wasn’t always the furthest forward men could be positioned. It was the furthest forward men would permanently be, but forays beyond that defensive line were common.
Small groups might be sent beyond the firing trench for short reconnaissance or raiding missions into no-man’s land, sent as teams of sniper and spotter, or sent with rolls of barbed wire, wire snips and similar equipment to either repair damage to their own defences or else try to dismantle the enemy’s. Men dispatched on such missions. would have to find cover where they could. The churned up shell craters in no man’s land, where artillery had fired but fallen just a bit short of target...those were not great cover, but they were cover of a sort, and they could be gradually converted (by use of saps) into semi-permanent listening posts or sniper nests if they were in positions where they might be used regularly. The craters were not part of the main fortified defences, (since the mere fact that the craters existed demonstrated just how heavily that position would get pounded by enemy artillery if you tried to stay there permanently!) but could be given basic connections to the main trench net as and when that little bit of extra ground proved strategically useful.
Half a platoon (or “zug” in German usage) would at this time have been no more than twenty people, and often less. Think of teams with wire and shovels, going out to make repairs. That’s not as many as you thought, is it?
\- Twenty in the second line support trench. These can move up quickly to reinforce the firing trench if casualties or weight of enemy forces demand, or will be ready to join in a counterattack if the firing trench has to be abandoned temporarily.
The amount of troops in a platoon is especially helpful in visualizing the way it would work. Is it safe to assume that the half platoons would be soldiers assigned to non trench positions while the full platoons would be in trenches?
As I understand it, von Lossberg is picturing a small stretch of trench (very small, if a whole division is covering only a few kilometres) as follows. There would be some variation in sectors where the fighting was particularly intense, but this is his norm.
\- A few hundred metres will be manned by a rifle company, somewhere between 100-160 men at full strenh. Err on the small side and say 120, as men drop in and out with illness, injuries (not necessarily combat related...if you slip on a duckboard in the trench and break your ankle, that counts!) leave and so on.
\- Forty in the third line reserve trench. Ready to rotate in when wounded men come out on their way to the back of the web, or to move up to support second or first line trench positions if things really get that bad.
\- Thirty to forty men in the firing trench. This is your first line of defence, so even if an individual solder can only stand to be there for short periods it must be well manned at all times. ESPECIALLY the machine gun must be manned and protected - as the war went on, German infantry reorganised more and more heavily around supporting the MG 08 and its variants, which usually required a four to eight man team (detached from the battalion’s specialist machine gun/weapons company) to operate.
The spare twenty men of this number can be in any trench (usually the firing trench or support trench) but “Corporal, find me some guys to mend the wire“ is a constant need, so someone is always out in no man’s land.