If you are a first time visitor, welcome! This thread is trending high right now and getting a lot of attention, but it is important to remember those upvotes represent interest in the question itself, and . The mission of /r/AskHistorians is to provide users with in-depth and comprehensive responses, and our are intended to facilitate that purpose. We remove comments which don't follow them for reasons including unfounded speculation, shallowness, and of course, inaccuracy. Making comments asking about the removed comments simply compounds this issue. So please, before you try your hand at posting, check out the , as we don't want to have to warn you further.
Of course, we know that it can be frustrating to come in here from your frontpage or /r/all and see only provides a guide to a number of ways to do so, including the RemindMeBot- - or.
Finally, while we always appreciate feedback, it is unfair to the OP to further derail this thread with META conversation, so if anyone has further questions or concerns, I would ask that they be directed to , or a . Thank you!
I think sign language is so cool. Parents can use sign language with babies and it helps them to understand each other before the baby can speak.
Within the Deaf community in the 19th century, hearing aids were simply not in widespread use. Sign language was the main form of communication, and people didn't use hearing aids much - they didn't need them. In the late 1860s, though, the western hearing world began pushing for deaf people to learn to speak and listen, and not use sign language. This effort was spearheaded by Alexander Graham Bell in the United States, and took firm hold following the 1880 Second International Congress on Education of the Deaf in Milan, Italy. The congress resolved that speech was superior to sign language, and that all deaf children should be taught to listen and speak. This resolution changed deaf education permanently in the western world; indeed, it is this split between manualism and oralism that drives the cochlear implant debate today. (For more on this, see Forbidden Signs: American Culture and the Campaign Against Sign Language by Douglas Baynton; see also the early 20th century films of sign language to .).