In Latin, serpens and draco are frequently interchangeable. That's why Thomas Aquinas in the Summa Theologica can talk about humans commanding "dragons"^1 (dracones)--he's referencing a saints' legend that is very clearly based on the staffs of Moses and the Pharaoh's magicians turning into serpentes.
So Greek δράκων, which can also mean generally "serpent," is really not a leap that signifies any sort of "dragon.".
Stothers' article itself is not great, though. Just for starters, his assertion that by the early Middle Ages, "draco" and "serpens" were separate is...not entirely true, as I pointed out above.
Second, Stothers and the Ancient History piece both draw a distinction between "historical" and "literary" texts, which is...not really something modern historians would do. While there is of course a distinction between someone writing a historical chronicle and someone writing a "fiction" story, there is nothing "non-literary" about historiae. Those authors are using rhetoric and have their agendas just like 'fiction' authors.
And then he represents earlier scholarship disingenously when it disagrees with his point. For example, Stothers calls the work of Edward Bassett "noncommittal" on the matter. This assessment has...basically nothing to do with Bassett's actual argument.
Third, Stothers pretty much starts out with his conclusion--the accounts are true, the serpent is a python, and the size is probably exaggerated--and finds parallel mentions of too-large serpents in other ancient texts to support that conclusion. However, he's taking all of these out of their own literary and societal contexts.
Bassett studies specifically the account by Silius Italicus in the Punica, one of the ones quoted and discussed in the clickbait article. And he spends about 20 pages demonstrating how Silius presents this episode as a loving, wildly educated elaboration of/reference to earlier stories and authorities--the Aeneid, other Virgilian texts, the labors of Hercules.
Bassett makes a pretty good case--I mean, he gets down to the level of individual words and phrases in showing how Silius draws from earlier sources. This is a common and beloved rhetorical device in ancient and medieval literature, not something to criticize.
But while in this case, Bassett's argument concerns the elaboration/polishing of one late, "literary" account of Regulus and his serpens, we can take the underlying lesson from it. The root story reminded Silius of earlier episodes--in particular, stresses Bassett, of Hercules.
Silius' heroicization of Regulus in his army's fight against the giant serpent finds reflection in modern scholarly discussion of Regulus as a historical/literary figure. Eleanor Leach and Rebecca Langlands, for example, are just two of the people who have highlighted Schrödinger's Regulus. In some ancient accounts, he is an exemplar of virtue; in others (especially Polybius), he is trash.
So within this tradition, there may well have been a large snake and a snakeskin in "reality." But also (or instead of?), telling this story was a way of linking Regulus and his army to heroes of yore--a way to polish his, and Rome's, prestige and majesty in historical memory.
Debates about the philosophy of exemplarity, as it were, are exactly as thrilling in comparison to DRAGON SLAYING as you think.^2 For present purposes, we can say that there were both positive and negative ideas about Regulus circulating in the Roman world.
For writers who wanted to use their histories to establish Regulus in historical memory as a model, Regulus the SLAYER OF DRACONES makes him a hero through the feat itself and through the links to epic heroes--no matter how big, small, real, or imaginary the draco may have been.
^2 This is unfortunately where my familiarity with this topic actually comes from. Studying the exemplars themselves is waaay more awesome than studying the theory, and what I am there for, but some things can't be helped.
Is this also the same reason why some translations of the Bible refer to Satan as the "Great Dragon" while others refer to the "Great Serpent" in the Book of Revelation?
Yes, the ancient Greeks imagined a drakon usually as a large snake. That's why it's often depicted as a legless serpent, rather than a giant lizard. See, for example, , which shows Jason being swallowed by the Colchian dragon -- a scene/event completely unknown from any textual source.
I'm the editor-in-chief of Ancient World Magazine and I object strongly to your dismissal of the article as "clickbait" (now deleted, but see below). I don't think it means what you think it means. The article by Dr Hall is a 2,000 word discussion of the Badragas dragon, not "Ten tips to lose weight quick!" We -- the team of trained archaeologists and ancient historians behind Ancient World Magazine \-- are doing our best to provide good information about the ancient world to a wider audience, so I don't quite understand why you need to put the article down in such a petty manner. It's frankly disappointing, especially coming from a moderator of AskHistorians.
As to the rest of your criticism: I fail to see how what you're saying here is dramatically different from the article that you've chosen to put down in such a mean-spirited manner. I mean, feel free to engage with the substance of the article, but why put it down as "clickbait" when you then proceed to basically go about saying more or less the same thing but in a different manner? It befuddles me.
One small question: The name "regulus" means "little king" if my high school latin doesn't fail me. Was this a common name in ancient rome? How does this name fit into the anti-monarchist sentiments in the republic?
As regards the difference between historic and literary texts and "modern historians" not drawing the distinction: this is utterly nonsense, of course. Distinctions are drawn between "historical" and "literary" texts. Note, for example, the (often heated) discussions concerning e.g. the Homeric epics, where some scholars argue that the Iliad and Odyssey are nothing but literature, while others suggest that they contain at least a kernel of historical truth. Hans van Wees, in his Status Warriors (1992, IIRC) argued that the Homeric epics can indeed be used as historical sources for Homer's own age (i.e. around 700 BC), while archaeologist Anthony Snodgrass has written frequently (e.g. Homer and the Artists) that the epics are entirely fantastical or a mishmash of influences from different periods that cannot be disentangled, and should therefore be treated solely as literature.
As regards the questions raised by the OP: the answer is that, as far as I know (and I'm not an expert when it comes to Regulus here), there's no other information as regards to how the people in Rome responded. But perhaps the author of the article, Joshua Hall, can pop in and tell you more, and if there's more to the story, we can also update the article.
First let me say: I also write for popular history outlets online. If I had written a piece on this topic, I probably would have called it "Regulus and the Man-Eating River Dragon"--which is clickbait AF. Not sure why there is shame in that.
No idea if it was common. In Regulus' case, it's his cognomen, so his nickname, which could often be weird. The most famous example is "Cicero", which means "chickpea". The last emperor of Rome was referred to as Augustulus ("Little Augustus") and that was intended to mock him.
In point of fact, there is no scholarly basis to insist on "Dragon" in the title. There's no primary source support, and it's by no means standard terminology in scholarship. Bassett has "Regulus and the Serpent"; Martin "the monster of Bagrada." It's absolutely a misleading title. And like I said, I am here for it. I would have used it.
If you re-read the article, there is no problem. First, the author says we shouldn't dismiss the ancient story as fantasy, but examine it. Then, later, he dismisses the modern authors who dismiss the ancient story. There's no conflict, it's not misleading (nor is the title), and I find the characterization of such not helpful to the discussion.
But I would not have misled readers by saying upfront "They ran into a dragon"...and then gone on to quote a bunch of accounts that say nothing about a dragon. OH BUT WAIT--this one Greek account uses a word that sounds kind of like English dragon. This is disingenuous.
Secondly, I don't see how you can claim my answer here is the same as Dr. Hall's piece. He follows Stothers in saying, "Here are these accounts; they're embellished; what was it?" Furthermore, recent scholarship has questioned the straightforward association of Regulus with Rome in terms of positive/negative views in ancient historians' accounts.
But confusing and misleading readers--as the existence of this question on AskHistorians in the first place demonstrates--is the problem here. Not an awesome clickbait title and concept.
I am sympathetic to the need to write fast and the desire to base a pophist piece on a single journal article, which is essentially what this is. Right down to the closing.
What awesome reach How many people are reading this It's a title and a topic absolutely chosen to bait clicks. There is nothing wrong with that. Or perhaps I could interest you in Gerson Jeute's "Social and Ethnic Aspects of Rural Non-Agrarian Production.
The existence and popularity of this thread do point to shortcomings in the original article. As I tried to stress, a lot of those are actually stemming from Stothers.
But the existence of this thread also shows that Dr. Hall's baiting of readers to click on an article about Latin chronicles by using a kickass title worked in the best of ways. It got people interested enough in history to want to know more.
I realize that my characterization of the title and article as clickbait came across as an insult that I did not mean it to be. I am sorry I phrased it that way, and I have edited accordingly.