IANAL. It boils down to what’s written in the lease. If there is a stipulation in the lease for excessive use of utilities, then you’ll have to settle the “above normal” use of utilities with your landlord. If not, then it is important to understand if the air conditioner that increased the bill was already installed at the property when you moved in or was it installed afterwards.
The AC is through central air and was installed well before we moved in. There is no stipulation on excessive utility usage. We also feel like we are acting in good faith by having the ac turned to 78 degrees where many would have it 70 or below. The only reference to utilities is: “The Landlord is responsible for the payment of the following utilities and other charges in relation to the property: electricity, water/sewage, internet, cable, and garbage collection.”.
Please consider: write a letter to the landlord seeking to clarify his request. Make a copy of your lease and include the section that stipulates payment of utilities as an arrangement to your letter. Make sure you state that you are following the rules in the lease and expect them to honor their end of the agreement as well (as in, not turning off your cable, etc).
If you've only been there for two weeks and your landlord is already pulling this kind of nonsense, I'd be concerned. All communications going forward should be done in writing.
OP, whatever you do, make sure you don't violate any clauses of the lease agreement. Such as withholding rent in case the landlord switches off your cable.
Other than that, I would only communicate through written correspondence (emails are great for that). Just remind them that the utilities and cable are part of the lease. You won't be able to do anything legal until they breach the lease. If or when they eventually turn off your cable, you can go to small claims to recover the costs associated with the cable that was turned off and to get a reduction in rent for whatever much the cost of contracting cable would be. That alone should send your landlord the right message.
This state is more tenant friendly than most and it would be in a landlord's best interest not to screw around with this kind of stuff.