In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
“She pointed to long lines at some polling places that were exacerbated by problems with ballot printers at about a third of the vote centers in Maricopa County, the largest county in the state. She said the problems disenfranchised voters who couldn’t wait at the polls.”.
Oh, so now you care about long lines? Maybe you’d like a solution to that…like mail in ballots perhaps?
And some of the ballot drop off places are in absolutely absurd locations like the Mesa Juvenile Court. It’s where the clowns camped out at night and intimated voters that were dropping off ballots.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Agreed, voters under the age of 30 need to get involved because current issues are going to drastically impact their near futures. They really can't remain idle/passive when it comes to voting. It would never happen but it would be great if voting became mandatory if you're 18 or older.
I bet 21 is still too young for them, but they want to seem like reasonable people, at least for a while.
To ‘sound reasonable’ and to ‘be reasonable’ are two separate things. Republicans are really good at sounding reasonable to the folks who already buy into what they are selling.
This is a trend that you’ll see playing out in various places held by Republicans. First they create hurdles to voting and counting of votes, then when things move slowly due to mechanisms they purposefully put in place to make things move slowly, they complain about ‘fraud’. The goal is to make the public mistrust the election system so eventually they won’t have to run elections anymore at all.
The big question is what happens when enough ‘patriots’ get ‘fed up’ with their votes being ‘stolen’. There may come another time soon when a party attempts to take the country by force. But this time they may be more organized.
The area is fairly sketch within the city - it isn’t well lit at night. It’s a mixed use area with lots of construction at the moment.