I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Then I would assume it's a civil. I'm not at home to look at the documentation at the moment but that was the direction that was given to me.
The amount is small enough to be small claims but it could be filed either way. The summons and complaint should say small claims court on the paperwork if it is.
Regardless, for this type of debt, you should contact the attorney for the plaintiff and negotiate a repayment plan. You can usually settle for less than the original claim and set up a payment plan to do so. If you don't follow the plan the original claim amount would be entered as a judgment against you without further court proceedings.
I work for a fairly large company who offers free legal consultations to the employees..and they suggested i file a denial with my local court to get more time - then reach out to them and offer a repayment. If i just sit and dont do anything then they can judgement and garnish etc etc... seems like a pain to file a denial and then call them and own it.
I have to be honest - Im not 100% sure how to find that out. It was filed in my local superior court..is there a way for me to find out if it's any of those? the dollar amount in question is roughly $3600 if that answers your question.
I'm frankly about to just pull money out of my 401k and just pay it and be done with it. It goes against the suggestions from family but I'd rather just pay it and be done with it.
I'm thinking I'm going to file the denial then initiate conversation for a lump sum payout and pull it off my 401k and be done with it.
Answering the complaint with a denial would prevent them from obtaining a default judgment (or in the case you admitted a summary one). That potentially would buy time to negotiate but I would get that negotiation started sooner rather than later.
I don't want to mess with monthly payments to repay it and don't have the capital for a settlement without doing it.
I feel like it's stupid to pull off my 401k but I'm also only 29...and I don't anticipate retiring anytime soon anyways.