One step at a time. It’s hard to make everyone be nice at the same time. So you get one side to be a little nicer. Then you get the other side to be a little nicer. This way by making several small changes over time. You shed less blood because it feels like their own idea.
I mean if we are going that route I’ll do you one better. It’s be great if we could all realize that religion was nothing but a collection of fables and fairytales. Used to explain things that we now know better. We should all realize that the human race is nothing but a collection of people just trying to live from one day to the next. We should all work towards the common goal of feeding the hungry and housing the unhoused. We make all drugs legal and subsidize drug treatment programs. Free healthcare for everyone.
oh and im not sure about drugs are there ones which are highly beneficial but illegal? sorry to type this much text but what can i do its a everevolving topic.
The problem is that when you try to make too many big changes at once people dig their heels in and even reverse course. There are times where fast change is necessary like in Iran, but anytime you enact big changes fast you’re going to get bloodshed. Like in Iran.
yeah! some are very bad fairytales... although not everybody gonna agree with that tho specially ppl in conservative rural areas won't be happy when somebody tries to undermine their own way and their ancestor's way of life this is why being peaceable and understanding about other people's personal life is important, to learn to talk about our problems and solutions in a peaceful way also this is important as some of those folks are more gullible and prone to long term brain wash but, they don't realize that they have more power in votes (because numbers) assuming the voting is free and not corrupt unlike here in iran.
or it's better to have a cultural revolution in our heart and decide its possible to have a peaceable and understanding society where you don't get killed for having a different belief, which isn't even threatening anyone except the throne of knobheaded dictators.
i agree that we are very similar to other living animals in earth albeit different in some aspects, now, we can either: respect all of the living organisms and try not to be a massive dictator or no don't have any respect for nature which includes us and put the next generation and us in a basic necessity crisis... food shelter economical crisis etc because believe it or not we humans can be the most beneficial species to this earth.
aand there is already countrys which give loans and aids for such projects but some of those never will reach the needy; this is why we can't get nations to prosper with corrupt, power hungry, self-unaware, dictator.
It’s crazy because things like this are a problem the world over. Take my father for instance. He’s 78 years old and considers himself a christian. But here’s the thing. If he saw someone begging on side of the street he wouldn’t help. He doesn’t really like people that aren’t like him, meaning white protestant christians. There are other problems too, but to keep this short I’ll stop there. Those things alone go against the very teachings of what christianity is. This man doesn’t like brown people which if Jesus was real he almost certainly was one. You’re supposed to love and protect your fellow men and women. If you’re strong then you stand up for the weak.