I work in auditing and reporting for a small hospital. We just got Epic in October (during Covid....that’s another story for another time) and we had a “playground” where we could learn and practice how to use epic. But, since you didn’t do that and you did your searching in the “live” environment, I’m surprised that you had access to other units based on your role. Regardless, your hospital should have a HIPAA compliance officer or a HIPAA reporting hotline that you can call and say “hey I did this dumb thing, I accessed this but they’re not assigned to me.” Maybe talk to your supervisor too and ask if you can get clarification on training. It’s good that you recognize what is a violation and what isn’t.
Option 2- tell noone. I have very broad access. Radiology and pathology go through all sorts of charts and it would be hard to figure out whether we needed to be there. There are several times that a clinician gives a name “bob smith” and i have to go through one or two. I do not think they are always monitoring everyone at all times. Good chance, they will not notice. As a student, you are on all types of floors and working with all types of providers. They may not even think twice of why you were in there.
Not legal advice and I am a provider not a lawyer, but unless you were in some VIP or very sensitive area of a chart, I do not think it will be noticed.
1- tell an administrator and explain that you were playing with the features and did not realize there was Epic playground (not sure if you have this but it is a dummy webversion of the real Epic). They may check to see what you looked at. If you were in any VIPs charts or say Tiger Woods, you will be fired. They will not care why you were in there. Generally, after someone famous is admitted I think they routinely look at who has accessed that chart. Our institution, they will change the name. If it was just a few scattered charts in different fields this is common. When I started, I had to present at tumor board. I looked through several charts and noone had a current cancer. Finally went to someone to check. I went through all the surgeon’s charts. They list the surgeon first and the patient’s name at the end. We did report that and I was not fired as it was a mistake and it was a “one time, very patterned event”. The one-time event was the key.