Although I can't speak for the exact motivations of the Ordnance Department, I can say that the Krag absolutely was an obsolescent design that warranted replacement for a variety of reasons. The magazine design precluded the use of speed loading devices, the design was complicated and expensive to manufacture, and, most critically, it had a comparatively weak bolt with a single locking block. That last point played in pretty critically with the ammunition. 30-40 Krag was an obsolescent cartridge even for the time, barely reaching 2,000 fps with ammunition at the time - even with the long barrels the infantry rifles were using. Compare this to the 7x57mm Mauser, which was pushing a bullet around 2500 fps, resulting in a much flatter trajectory that had a lot of practical impact when it came to shooting at more distant targets. Although 7x57 Mauser had a lighter bullet, such velocities weren't impossible with heavier bullets, with Spitzer-bullet 8mm Mauser coming in at around 2700 fps.
So the Ordnance Department tried to fix this by developing "hotter" loads for 30-40 Krag. The cartridge was capable of it - trials would push the round to 2300 fps, though not on the Krag. That's because of the inherent failings of the Krag's design. The single locking block on the bolt made it inadequate for the kinds of pressures that would be produced by the cartridge the Ordnance Department was looking at. The 30-03 cartridge that would result from these trials would get a 220 grain bullet going 2200 fps at pressures the Krag was never going to be able to handle.
From there, further failings made the adoption of a new rifle seem more reasonable. The 30-40 Krag also suffered from issues with the large rims of the cartridge, which complicated loading and could lead to malfunctions due to rimlock. There existed methods to avoid rimlock (see the Mosin), but adoption of a rimless cartridge avoids those issues entirely and ends up being simpler. And while redesigning the Krag to handle a rimless cartridge would largely be a question of replacing the bolt, with the gun itself proving itself unable to handle the pressures produced by the kind of cartridge the Army wanted, we have yet another reason to go against the Krag.
All that being said, you bring up valid points, and it's not exactly out of character for the Ordnance Department to make nonsensical decisions with poor reasoning. In this case, however, we have similar instances to show that these decisions have a decent chance of being made in good faith. The British had a similar experience in the Boer War, where they felt outclassed by the flatter-shooting 7mm Mauser cartridge - in their case developing a standardized "short" rifle and adding a charger guide to address their biggest complaints during the war. Germany's adoption of the Gewehr 98 offers a similar situation with the replacement of a recently adopted but sub-par rifle. The American experience here seems to be a mix of both of these situations - the Krag was recognized as being underperforming in the Spanish-American War, but the Ordnance Department determined a new design was more conducive to their new requirements than their existing rifles.
Requirements change, either as a result of changing realities on the battlefield or (as seems to be more often with the Ordnance Department) leadership being convinced on the merits of a theory that doesn't pan out in reality.
The Spanish-American War introduced the US Army to the realities of what warfighting was going to be, and ended up showing that some of the assumptions they'd based their rifle selection off of were flawed or incorrect entirely. That's not to say that sensationalism didn't play a part in things - after all, this war effectively came about due to journalistic sensationalism - but there wouldn't have been enough reason to drop the Krag less than 15 years after adoption by an Army notoriously stingy with rifle trials had they not had legitimate concerns being raised.
Seemingly good ideas that are later proven flawed often go alarmingly far with the Ordnance Department (and even after its demise). Look back to the Trowel Bayonets of the 1870s or the later Rod Bayonets, designed around the assumption that bayonets were on their way out and therefore could either be replaced with something more useful, or at the very least reduced in weight. Into the Cold War, there was quite a lot of alarmingly poor design choices made during the experiments leading up to the M14, and and seemingly every time the Army has looked at an M16 replacement we see a whole host of novel ideas tacked on that inevitably prove to be less than spectacular once trials get underway.
I think you're being a little unfair and dismissive of the doctrinal approaches that made the rifle suitable in the first place; the US Army had an extremely rigorous testing approach in choosing rifles in the late 19th century, which I've a .
While there were criticisms of the Krag's performance and its perceived weaknesses against other competing rifles, it's odd to say that the choice was obselete when the US performed remarkably well with a mostly unprofessional force mostly armed with rifles even older than the Krag in a war against a European army. And some of the design features you've pointed out have been remarked upon by army historians as one of the reasons the rifle was chosen in the first place: the horizontal magazine meant that a soldier could load his magazine with a round chambered and the bolt engaged, which is completely in keeping with the army's tactical doctrine that emphasized that a magazine arm was primarily a single-shot platform that could, in times of emergency, be used as a repeater. To modern eyes, this seems ridiculous, but magazine cut-off switches carried over to the 1903 Springfield, as well, and I think people can be too zealous in condemning historical choices for failing to live up to expectations of today.
Something should also be said about the testing process that went into choosing the Krag, as well as some of the stated reasons to remain conservative in choosing a magazine rifle for service. According to the 1890 report from the Chief of Ordnance:
Finally, there's the magazine. The Krag's magazine was a problem for a variety of reasons. Even if we ignore its unique shape, the inability to handle speed-loading devices was a major shortcoming. Army experiments leading up to the 1903 also reveal other concerns, primarily over magazine durability. This is actually an issue not exclusive to the Krag. The Ordnance department (as with many other armies all over the world) had concerns over protruding magazines being easily damaged, so they were looking for a system that was flush fit. And with the Spanish Model 1893 Mausers as a nice good example, they had a system that did everything they were looking for. The magazine was significantly simpler and more compact than that of the Krag while also being able to accept stripper clips.
In the case of the original adoption of the Krag, it fit their original requirements reasonably well. Speed-loading devices weren't the standard at the time (though they were in service with some nations), and the unique magazine offered a some unique (and very niche) advantages that the Ordnance department thought was a good idea at the time. The 30-40 cartridge, while underwhelming in retrospect, was on par with similar bottlenose cartridges of the time and a huge step up from the .45-70 black powder round it replaced, and the very thing that make the Krag unsuitable for stronger cartridges - the single locking lug - made for a fantastically smooth bolt throw.
Fifty three rifles from a number of countries were selected and tested, and from the report of the 1892 tests, the US Army looked for an arm that would simultaneously act as a single-loader (magazine cut off and single shots loaded one by one, for engagement at long range) as well as a magazine-fed repeater:
These were specific choices made within a tactical and strategic doctrine that suited the army's needs, and was informed by experience in the wars and battles waged by the US Army, and as the OP mentioned, the Krag remained in use in European armies longer than it did in American service.
The testing it underwent was meant to test the rifle's performance in various endurance and mechanical stress tests, and the Krag simply outperformed its rivals in those respects - in the dust and endurance tests, for instance, the Mauser M 1889 failed and had to be dismantled and cleaned, where the notes for several variants of Krag tested only note that it "worked freely" with no failures. In subjecting the rifle to tests with deliberate loads of defective cartridges, the testers note that the Krag showed "no injury whatever." This is a consistent result across six different types of Krag tested.