Can you elaborate?? To me it seems like we paid $20k for a dance floor, open bar, and cocktail hour but what we are getting is none of that due to covid. The contract takes this into account how?
Ok that makes sense thank you. I still think it is kind of backwards considering the contract should be null and void once they can’t live up to what we were promised. But the thing is, they shouldn’t have the bargaining power to raise rescheduling prices. If anything, it should be legally capped during this time. Especially the bigger venues, which will be totally fine with all of the PPP money they’re getting.
That's not really how laws work. States are unlikely to pass such narrow laws, targeting wedding venues and price-per-head rescheduling. This all falls under contract law, and contract law has a long tradition of how it handles times like "this time" including SARS in 2003. The laws do in fact address these things. But laws also evolve, and moving forward, couples will be more attuned to their contracts. When you sign the contract without negotiating, you are accepting 100% of the way they want it.
That's not really a legal argument. It doesn't matter legally if they lose money or make money or are "totally fine" but the vast majority of them are not fine, not that it matters though. And PPP is a loan, not a gift, unless you spend it on wages and other qualified expenses. But also not relevant to contract law.
Under the theory of force majeure, as the legal theory has evolved over the last 20 years, they probably can't be held responsible for these things that are outside of their control. Which leaves it to you to cancel or not cancel. If you cancel, then the contract presumably specifies what happens. If you want to reschedule, that is outside the scope of the original contract (probably, unless it's not, so is it?) and they can negotiate terms.
Not trying to be cute, but you asked for the simple answer. Either the contract allows them to do this, or it does not. Though that might be something to be debated. If you don't think the contract allows it, you can dispute it.
It might have been 20+ years ago (probably not, but maybe, prior to 2001/2003). But contracts can still say "even if we can't do this, we keep your deposit." If you want to dispute that, you have to do it before you sign and agree to let them do what you are not frustrated with. Which is understandable, but the time to negotiate is prior to signing.
Like I said, the PPP part is just a rant. I’m a public accountant and I see it happening. But other than that, I think a New Jersey senator was trying to advance a bill to cap rescheduling fees for wedding venues.