If they have your information, yes they can. If they do not, they can proceed with the matter through the legal system.
Say, in theory, I’m not the kind of person who checks their bank statements periodically. How would I ever know they made the mistake? I don’t see what they have to stand on.
Also, now because of their incompetence I have to drive 100+ miles and spend hours of my valuable personal time to correct this issue.
They would contact you and explain what happened, and that you need to pay for the merchandise. You would verify this, and then pay for the merchandise. If you choose to not pay for it, they would proceed with a legal route.
This started when you bought the merchandise, and decided after the fact that you wanted to change your purchase agreement.
I still believe they majorly f’ed up, though. I’ll probably just return the items and repurchase with the 10% off.
I guess deep down I was just hoping someone would tell me I lucked out. I mean maybe everything would be fine in the end if I say nothing, but tbh I don’t wanna deal with it. Maybe I’ll get something out of it for being honest, but I doubt it.
As a lawyer (though, not your lawyer), I’m not so sure the answers to your questions are as clear as maybe ResidentAsylum suggests. However, it’s possible their knowledge of the UCC (uniform commercial code) and other law implicated here exceeds mine (which wouldn’t be hard to exceed by the way!). I understand you’re looking for an unemotional answer without regard to moral considerations. In that respect, I highly doubt you have an affirmative duty here to notify the store of their mistake. That does not mean they’re not entitled to the money—it just means it’s not your legal responsibility to notify them of the mistake. If they identify the mistake, give you notice of such, and demand actions on your part to remedy the mistake (where a ‘demand’ can be as simple as communicating to you the details of the mistake and billing you accordingly), then the tables turn and you are highly likely to be legally obligated to pay the funds. If you do not, and it’s worth their time to seek court remedies, you’d almost certainly end up having to pay, and could owe interest from the date of the demand (the interest amount would be a statutorily set rate). Concerning reimbursements for your time/troubles to go to the store and straighten it all out, it is HIGHLY unlikely you would be entitled to any reimbursement or right of set off against the amounts you owe because of your troubles. You might be able to convince the store manager to give you bigger discount or something like that (only limits are your negotiating abilities), but they wouldn’t be obligated legally. It’s worth mentioning two other things, first, note you do have leverage here so you can almost definitely negotiate something for your troubles if you have to pay them back (but you lose that leverage once you pay), so you should ask for at least something like another coupon for future use, and second, all this depends on your state law—it’s not a U.S. law issue. If I had to make a prediction, I’d say if you don’t notify them and go on with your life, you will probably never have to pay and have absolutely no “fuss” to worry about (except divine justice, which it seems like you’re not worried about that, so you should be “good” to go). I’m super curious to hear other lawyers respond though—I do finance so this really isn’t my cup of tea and should’t be taken as legal advice since i’m not qualified to answer this question without more information.
However, before I found out I was refunded I was planning to return some of the items as I don’t know how much use I’d get out of them and it was pretty impulsive purchase to begin with.