Your post does not appear to contain an answerable question. Please see for examples of questions that we cannot answer.
Please . If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, . Do not make a second post or comment.
You're right. She's changed out of nowhere though. I caught her texting a woman talking to her sexualy and emotionally. I asked her to stop and she said she can't, but it's hard because they are students in the same clinical. She talks to her all day and she has to meet her today for an assignment tonight and I'm slowly dying. I'm a guy and she even said I never found woman attractive. We are still hanging out all day and we still enjoy each other but things will never be the same. I'm kicking her out this Sunday.
Sorry, don't know how I missed that. That being said, the advice is the same. It is similarly difficult to evict a spouse in California, right now it is difficult to evict ANYONE legally in California (certainly you will not legally have her out by Sunday against her will unless you already have a court order), California courts loath illegal evictions, and using your mom to throw your spouse out in a pandemic is something that will at least raise some eyebrows.
You should absolutely speak to a divorce attorney before trying to remove her from the residence. If you can reach an agreement wherein she voluntarily agrees to move out, that's one thing. But if she says she wants to stay, you cannot legally evict a spouse from a marital home in SC. Misread: OP is in Southern California. But the advice remains the same as it is similarly difficult to remove a spouse in CA, and right now it is extremely difficult to remove ANY tenant legally in CA.
I am not a lawyer, but seems like you may as well drag it out so that when you’re negotiating support/alimony she’s earning a good living. I doubt it will do you any good to have to lock all that stuff in now when she’s not earning anything. It also sounds like you and possibly her are not ready for a complete break emotionally.
You try to throw her out of her home against her will, that almost assuredly will come up in the divorce, and the court will not be pleased to hear of it.
If your mom wants to end your spouse's tenancy, she should speak to a landlord/tenant attorney to ensure she goes about it completely legally.
You should still speak to a divorce attorney about this matter, because it is highly likely to come up in the divorce.