I'm a librarian, but I'm going to talk about what are sometimes referred to as the LAM institutions: libraries, archives and museums. There is no such thing as "definitive" (I will leave it at that, I'm not a historiographer) but there are institutions that are "repositories." There are , (which the Library of Congress defines to include archival collections), numbered from 0 to 5. Many libraries collect certain subjects at level 4 ("a collection that includes the major published source materials required for dissertations and independent research") or 5 ("a collection which, so far as is reasonably possible, includes all significant works of recorded knowledge"). The Library of Congress is one, but there are many others around the US and the world, both run by the national governments of various states as well as by public and private universities. These subjects may be specific ( maintains a level 5 collection on American Quakerism), less specific (the University of Illinois maintains a level 5 collection on ) or extremely broad (the Library of Congress maintains a level 5 collection on the United States, and a level 4 collection on most other topics).
The role of LAM institutions (because objects in museums present information in much the same way as text in archives and libraries does) in the present is to allow that contextualization to occur with as many perspectives as possible. By presenting the maximum number of perspectives, we hope to allow a history to emerge from the mass of present-day materials that are being produced. Any value judgment placed on one event, voice or primary source as it occurs or is created can and necessarily will distort understanding by future observers. By value judgment I don't necessarily mean "good" or "bad," but also "important" and "not important." These institutions attempt to avoid that problem through sheer volume. Providing as much documentation as resources allow to future generations is the only way for anyone to understand the present in the future.
The goal here is not to present a definitive history of any topic, but to allow that history to be written in the future. Events now will be contextualized by future events (As the well-known but not completely accurately translated Zhou Enlai quote says: it is "too soon to say" what the impact of the French Revolution was).
"To the Citizens of the United States of America", Peale, 1792, in Museum Studies: An Anthology of Contexts, ed. Carbonell, 2012.
You may be interested in Oxford University Press's series. Each of the 600+ books is around 200 pages long and is considered only an introduction to a relatively narrow topic (e.g. The Psychology of Music by Elizabeth Hellmuth Margulis).
A 1 collection is called "minimal level": "a subject area in which few selections are made beyond very basic works." If you're researching Illinois history, there might be a couple textbooks or overview books. The definitions of levels 2 and 3 are also at the link. The LC collections policy statements (there are a lot) are all available at this link:
The link I posted in my reply has them a couple levels deep; they do them fairly specifically so they’re divided by subject area. Here’s an example, history of science: . It shows that for most American history of science they collect at level 4 or 5, and foreign history of science between levels 2 and 4. I don’t know how they made the call that American history of physics needed to be a level 5 and foreign history of physics needed to be level 2, but people sat down and had these discussions.
If you’re talking about intra-institutional, so a list of all library subjects and which libraries collect them at which levels, not that I’m aware of. Libraries make decisions to change these levels all the time, so it would need to be updated regularly and not all of the collections policies are so easily available.