Interstate custody issues for children are governed by UCCJEA (Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Act) which all 50 states have enacted. It provides that only one state at a time is allowed to make a court order concerning custody or visitation of a child.
That state is the child's "home state," which in general is where the child has resided for the last 6 months. The only court which could enter an order or make any decision concerning child custody is the child's home state.
So long as the children live, and continue to live, in Oregon, no one could file anywhere but an Oregon court to resolve or try to gain any visitation or other custody rights concerning a minor child, and Oregon law would govern any case filed.
If the children spent any extended period of time in another state (such as Idaho) there are circumstances where an interested party could try to claim emergency jurisdiction in that state to request an emergency custody order. Typically the only time a court can declare emergency jurisdiction is to stop immediate abuse of the child.
There should be no circumstance as long as you continue to live in Oregon with your children that you would need to concern yourself with the laws of any other state with respect to your children.
Aside from that, if you are not comfortable with anyone spending time with your children don't have them spend time with your children.
EDIT: TLDR: To clearly answer your main question, no one can sue for rights to your children in any place but Oregon, and no enforcement can take place of any court order anywhere but Oregon under the UCCJEA.
Additional fun fact about the UCCJEA, if somebody even tries to file a lawsuit about kids in a different state than you're in, the law requires the judges from each state to have a conference call with each other right at the start to confirm and agree on what state is the kids' home state and only allow that case to proceed. This is to head right off at the start somebody having to argue about what should be happening with kids anywhere but the closest court to where the kids actually are.
Contact the Idaho State Bar's to get a consultation with a family attorney. It should be inexpensive, and they can walk you through the specifics of grandparents' visitation rights and how it might play out.
In general, grandparents' visitation rights require an established pattern of visits and/or to be in the best interests of the children. Given the young age of the children, sending toddlers to stay with your parents for 8-12 weeks could well be argued to be against their best interests. You, their parents, won't be there for them.
Thank you for the peace of mind. Throughout my life my mom has seemed to see me both as an extension of herself and as someone to be envious of. I know she's covetous of my daughters and she feels entitled to them - since they are mine, they are hers. I've had growing concern over the last several months since we quit speaking that she would pull something. However, now it doesn't seem like she's got a leg to stand on.
On a practical level, ensure you aren't letting your parents establish in-person visits with your children. Speak with your husband so you are both on the same page about not offering invitations or scheduling travel plans for your parents or children. Scaling back the video calls may not be a bad idea either. It sounds like you are no-contact, but going fully no-contact as a family is a possibility -- but again, seek legal counsel before making this decision to know where you stand.
Even setting aside the abuse you suffered as a child, your kids are way too young to be away from their parents for a whole summer. I’m thinking this request would be more appropriate when your kids are teens and want to experience living in a different state.
Wow, thank you for the information. I didn't know about the UCCJEA and that definitely gives me peace of mind. We aren't near each other, we live in western Oregon and they're in North Idaho so there's no risk of them actually seeing the children without significant planning. They don't know my address but there are family members they could ask.
We've lived in Oregon since 2019. Prior to moving to Oregon we lived in the same town as my parents and they saw my children regularly, and even provided childcare briefly (because there were truly no other options). Since we've lived here they've seen the children in person three times, but my husband helps them video call regularly. I have been no contact with my mother since August, until she texted me yesterday, which has prompted some concern.
I'm not at all concerned that they will move to Oregon, and we certainly won't be moving back to Idaho.
I know the summer is ridiculous but what of she were to request something more reasonable like a week? I still feel that is too long and too far for toddlers to be away from their parents.
Child Protective Services was involved when I was a child but I don't even know where to begin to try to obtain a 20+ year old case file. I did write an account of some of the abuse last year when suspicion arose that another child was being abused. I have the contact information for that caseworker and it was also sent to a 3rd party for safekeeping, and my husband has access to the information as well, though per my request he has not read it.
For your peace of mind, what you are initially going to hear from an Idaho attorney is that Idaho has no ability to enforce its laws upon any issue concerning custody or visitation for your children so long as the children's home state is Oregon under the UCCJEA, which is determined by where the children have lived for the last 6 months.
You should appropriately be guided to talk to an Oregon attorney who would tell you what the possibilities for any third party to seek visitation or contact rights with your minor children under Oregon law, which is the only law which can apply to your children so long as their home state is Oregon.