And if she's still a probationary employee, she can almost certainly be disciplined/terminated for that policy violation.
She can also consult with an employment attorney, but I think the odds would not be in her favor here unless her actions did not violate a written policy.
She asked them if, in the future she could reapply, maybe when she's more "ready" and they told her yes, and it would be a fresh start. She says she was never told she couldn't look at it, but she also didn't ask. So maybe she should just let it go. Thanks for your input.
I can understand that. And I wish she had never looked at it too. But she figured that as it was unrestricted info, she could see it. So are they actually doing her a favor by letting her resign?
They could legally fire her (for much less than this, and probably for no reason at all) but since she'd not be eligible for unemployment, resigning probably has no negatives to it, and a firing could.
There are a number of systems where is a police officer access them for "funsies" or for some non-work related personal purpose, they can face termination, large fines and even prison time.
You cannot just "figure" things, or guess, in important occupations like medicine, law enforcement, aviation, military, etc. There was a set, required process to access this information, a process that you yourself were following. You discovered it was, in fact, restricted: restricted by proper procedure. She was using her position to bypass proper procedure. At a minimum she should have asked if that was allowed.
I agree 100% that she should have never assumed and should have asked and I told her so. I guess they are actually doing her a favor by letting her resign and not terminating her. They did also tell her that if she applies in the future, when she's a little more "ready" that it would be a fresh start. I think they realize it wasn't malicious in any way but rules are rules I suppose. Such a bummer. Thanks for your input.
I'm aware of this now and it does truthfully make sense. She shouldn't have assumed and realizes now, if she had just asked, none of this would have happened. She did know better then to tell me anything that was in the report and that's why I wanted to see it myself. So I could see, what she saw. She's bummed, but she has learned a lesson and will know better in the future.
Yes I do realize that. Especially now that I'm trying to get the report for myself. It's been a bigger process then it should. I still don't have it after contacting the pd twice and the da. They certainly don't give it out easily.
I wasn't given one. After being told by the police that they can't give it to me, they told me to contact the district attorneys office and they put me in touch with the man who was my victim witness advocate during the trial. He said he'd ask the a.d.a who worked on the case, but hasn't gotten back to me yet.
Which is true, but they can track who access what. In a hospital, a nurse (or anyone) who even accesses a medical record for someone who isn't their patient, just opens the file on a computer, will often be investigated and disciplined, sometimes terminated.
The lieutenant that my daughter asked about it, is the public information person for the department and he looked at the report himself and said he would give it to me, but it was outside agency and to ask the city it happened in. When I did that and got a big fat no, my daughter told him and He couldn't understand why they weren't giving it to me either and gave me a whole booklet about the laws and exemptions regarding the public information that is and isn't accessible. According to the law there is no reason why they shouldn't give it to me.