A little more elaboration: Generally, the colours available to the lower/working class were dyes obtainable locally from plants without a lot of additional preparation, along with the colours generally found in sheep (wool being the predominant fibre for outer clothing for most people.).
Thank you, again. I think I learned quite a bit, including things I hadn't thought about (I hadn't thought about the access to proper needles as something that could affect who could do embroider in clothes, I allways assumed it was about the cost of the thread in the case of most delicate materials and the hours needed to create intrincate works).
I also mention in the reply above that dyebaths were often used for several rounds of dyeing, with the most costly articles dyed in the first round and less costly ones dyed in subsequent "dips" (known as exhaust baths), leading to the phenomenon of more muted shades being associated with lower-class items.
One of the reasons reds and purples are associated with the upper classes and royalty is that the dyestuffs which produce the most intense, light-fast results were extremely costly. These include murex (Tyrian or Imperial purple--actually, more of a reddish wine colour, extracted from a type of mollusk), cochineal (ground-up insects), brazilwood, and, by the 16th century, logwood (blues, purples, reds, and eventually, black). There is also alkanet, which is widely available but not water soluble, so it needs special preparation before being used, and produces lavenders and purples that are not quite as light fast as some of these other dyes. Madder can also be used in more complex dyebaths with mordants and with tweaks to pH to produce very deep shades of red, including crimson. True black was a difficult shade to obtain, although deep browns and greys were more common. One of the most common processes involved a multi-step process involving dyeing first with woad, and then overdying with madder. I mentioned logwood above--this is a New World dyestuff and is responsible for the black dyes that became associated with Spanish clothing first, and produced something approaching a "true black" that was colourfast and didn't degrade the fabric as some other iron-based dyes that could produce black colours. By the 16th century anyone with any pretense of status was seeking out black clothing, with it becoming ubiquitous for both the upper and merchant classes by the 17th century.
City-dwelling merchants and craftspeople (I like this term better than "middle class") would have access to commercially-available cloth (as well as tailors), and tended to buy the most costly fabric they could afford (which is in fact the origins of "sumptuary laws" restricting certain fibres and colours to certain classes; these were usually observed more in the breach, with being able to pay the fines being a source of pride). Those of the labouring classes that lived in the countryside might also have had some access to commercially-produced cloth, but also homespun-and-dyed cloth. For obvious reasons, therefore, the dye processes would need to be simple and straightforward using locally-available dyestuffs, with the very poorest likely forgoing dyeing altogether.
So these would include the wide variety of plants that produce yellows and oranges (such as weld, dyer's broom, etc.), and browns (walnut being a fairly well-known one). Blue was produced from woad and can be processed using urine, which is, of course, available everywhere. Weld and woad can be combined in a two-step process to produce green. Red was a little trickier; madder (produced from a root) is fairly common (basic madder red is often known as Turkey red) but intense shades took more processing.
I don't know if you can answer this but, I imagine that if they had acces to dyed cloth, they had acces to dyed thread that they could use to embroider designs in their clothes, at least those for special occasions. Was this something that happened? Or there were other types of addornments more popular/other ways to make their clothes a bit more special?
However, we do have a few scattered snippets of Norse embroidery on what appears to be everyday clothing. These fall into two categories: seam embellishment with simple stitches (such as a herringbone stitch) in contrasting colours, and single-line, stem stitch embroidery in a variety of designs. This page is fairly old, but it does show some of the patterns.
There is a 16th? century (I think) play called "Gammer Gurton's Needle" that really drove home to me just how treasured needles were. You can certainly make needles out of bone (I've even tried one out), but those tended to be used more for things like naalbinding. Might work for one of the simple seam covering stitches, but not so much for any of the stem stitch motifs.
Note that embroidery in the Middle Ages would likely have been something practiced mostly by higher-status people who had the time and the correct equipment (including appropriate threads and needles). This might have included wealthier peasants, although I expect that simple geometric ornamentation would have likely been the extent of things.
It's difficult to say for sure, just because so little has survived; what we do have tends to be ecclesiastical, at least until we're out of the Middle Ages and into the early modern period; either than, or smaller pieces such as pouches.