It’s crazy how he gets so much hate for this. I mean what’s to say he’s not saying it in the same way expressed in the last paragraph? Negotiating involves concessions of some sort, what’s wrong about giving up plans you had no interest in?
I think the issue is that giving Russia has proven itself to be unreliable (so who’s to say they’ll keep to their end of the agreement?), Ukraine would end up making concessions and risk just another war down the line when Russia has had time to gather itself.
If you look at history of Eastern Europe, it’s full of promises and security guarantees. Most of Eastern Europe feels it was just given away to Soviets post-WWII as a security guarantee without any thought about the millions of people who actually lived here. The visceral reaction is because people are afraid that powers like France will go over their head to make a deal with Russia - who is thought to not follow deals through anyway - and force people to make concessions.
The problem is also that whilst we here look at the loss of human lives as a tragedy, in Russia they do not. Anything - and I mean nearly ANYTHING - is fine as a course of action if it means they get the end result they seek. So if their end result is fractured Ukraine or parts of Ukraine or Ukraine out of NATO/EU, or whatever - if they get something, allllll the horrible war crimes and crimes against humanity has been okay. It justifies the invasion and it justifies having an invasion in the future as well. It literally proves to them that it was alright, okay, perfectly acceptable to invade another country because they will have - in the end - still gotten something.
The early days of WW2 saw western Europe letting germany do whatever to keep the peace. Georgia was invaded the west didnt do anything. Ukraine was invaded and Crimea stolen. Russia still got to sit at the table.
The problem is that France will not have to live with this. Nobody in their right mind ever thinks that Russia is going to attack France, let alone with nuclear weapons. France will restore its relations with Russia a second after this war is over and there will be strong business between them again. France will not have to care if Ukraine is fractured. So it’s easy to talk about concessions to Russia if it’s not your land that is being promised away and the scary dude you talk to is anyway thousand or more kilometres away from you.
They launch a full scale invasion and it has faltered, parts of Europe are worried about nuclear armed Russias security guarantee. Like wtf.
I mean they werent even invited to the conference. The allies sold out eastern europe so the Soviets would join in fighting japan.
They launch a full scale invasion and it has faltered, parts of Europe are worried about nuclear armed Russias security guarantee. Like wtf.
You’re not getting the point. The point of something like this is to extract concessions from the opposite party. If it makes it easier for Ukraine to get what it wants from russia, why not? It all comes down to the last paragraph of the tldr: