I can answer with regard to early, ante-Nicene Christianity, principally through the second century, with some peeks into the third and fourth. There are several parts to this answer.
What's the payoff? There are three examples of syncretism I can think of in the early part of the ante-Nicene period, and they correspond to the themes I have outlined!
TL;DR: The short version of this is that syncretism usually worked locally, only after military conquest of a new people in a single place; that through the early centuries, Romans did not see Christians as a people to be reckoned with but a troublesome sliver of a minority which acted seditiously; and that while there are examples of syncretism, they existed according to their mental framework about what they thought Christians even were. However, more important than syncretism would be the difficulty of reconciling Christian claims into the Roman mindset. Among these were the former Christian Celsus' attempt at a philosophical refutation of Christianity and what became called, by the Great Church tradition, heresies. By the time Christians were a large enough population to care about, they were largely not considered disruptive to social order.
First, when Romans did incorporate gods into their pantheon, it was principally by creating a narrative that suited a small, local cult in order to help assimilate a conquered people into the Empire. Romans were generous conquerors in matters of religion. You didn't have to renounce your local gods, so long as you accepted Roman worship as well, when necessary. Religion was largely governed by a matter-of-fact pragmatism. Why would you insist that someone else's god wasn't real? There are gods everywhere, in the city, in the fields, in the home. Maybe there are different gods in this new region. It is characteristic of ancient Mediterranean religion that whenever you are in a place, you should follow local customs, even if you visited Egypt and their weird, primitive, but assuredly ancient animal gods. You don't have to like it, but it doesn't hurt to be polite. To be ancient in the ancient world earned you certain privileges---afforded, by the by, to wealthy Egypt and the austere Jewish (proto-)diaspora alike. "When in Rome, do as the Romans do" is pretty expressive of this attitude. Besides, if you were educated, you were much more interested in the Platonic hope that you might achieve union with The One sometime in your life---the pantheon was popular window-dressing to be rationalized, when possible, into your Platonic commitments. The long and short of it is that local gods were not universally syncretized in any practical way. They were pragmatically syncretized. Functionally, it is where you were at the time that determined which gods you would worship, and it was the location of temples and places of worship which determined which ritual you would undergo. At best, the god of a conquered people would be locally married off to an equivalent god or goddess of the Roman pantheon. Christians were not a conquered people, so the typical apparatus was not invoked.
A second thing to understand is that the approach to religion around the Mediterranean was tied very closely to political and social activity. On the city-wide level, this meant the (frequent) religious festivals were the fabric of the social life. You see a parade, you get a hunk of meat---usually pork---you cheer in large crowds. It's fun Why wouldn't you want to do this? Christians absented themselves---and unlike Jews, they were not ancient, so they were not exempt from such rituals---which made them suspicious. What kind of person would go to the University of Alabama and not shout "Roll Tide?" Maybe ... they're rooting for Tennessee, which would clearly be equivalent to desiring the destruction of the Empire. Coupled with the fact that originally Christians were still a tiny minority religion, educated Roman administrators were more concerned not with the incorporation of Jesus as a figure into their pantheon but with how to deal with these Christians who were being accused by their neighbors of impiety. What do they do? Ante-Nicene Christians were accused of everything from simple impiety to incest and ritual cannibalism---cover an infant with flour, have the Christian novice beat the flour until the infant is dead, and have him chow down, unawares.
When Christians were met with less hostility, they were originally characterized as one of two sorts of groups: a philosophical school, in the model of the itinerant teachers for hire---"I know what they are. They're like those wandering Platonists who take money for teaching"---or, more dangerously, a burial society. Remember when I said that religion of some kind was the fabric of society, which existed in large, public spectacles? This was true also on the micro scale. Small groups, under the banner of a common divine patron, banded together for mutual support---remember the Roman Empire did not have institutional welfare. To provide for their loved ones, people joined these burial societies. They had rituals and devotions, but were largely small social clubs which guaranteed that they would take care of things when you die, especially burial expenses, so long as you put up a membership fee to start with, which in part paid for a big feast for all current members. These groups fell in and out of favor by the government for reasons of political stability. If you are administering an empire, do you really want lots of small, secretive, potentially seditious groups? (For more on this, read the Wilken below. I wish I still had a copy! It's a very easy read, transformative.).
Long story short? By the time Christianity was large enough for Romans to care about catering to them, they had largely already become acclimatized, meaning that nobody for decades worried much about them. The resulting period, which the church historian Eusebius called the Little Peace of the Church, would last for four decades in the third century. It would only end with one last, universal persecution under Diocletian, who retained the old suspicion that to not participate in civic religion was to be seditious.
First syncretism: Gnosticism. Just as the Romans saw Christians as itinerant philosophical schools, there were writers we call Gnostics who adopted Christian themes, texts, and figures---including Jesus---to write their own philosophies and to make money off of it. There are as many Gnosticisms as there were Gnostics, perhaps more---there is not single coherent system between them, other than that they would require people to pay them to receive more teaching. Each Gnostic writer had his own system, though each largely involved very didactic, sometimes confusing texts, resplendent with themes from what was really the dominant religion in the Roman Empire---Platonism! This is where you get texts that have Biblical characters say things like, "In order to be saved, Mary, you must become like a man." This is where you'll have miracles like a giant talking cross coming out of the tomb at the time of the Resurrection. This is where you'll have long, ambiguous poetry about ascent. This is where you'll have instructions on how to ascend the spheres, how to shed the body, how to answer questions when you're quizzed at each level of ascent.
This will not be the last attempt a Roman mind tries to understand and adapt Christian claims according to Platonist themes. Principal among them---the two I will describe here are at least a century after Celsus---would be the heresies about the nature of Christ. Greeks had no problem believing that God came down to earth and looked like a man. The really horrible issue was that he was flesh and blood, which is absurd. How can an infinite God become finite matter? Furthermore, if you were a good Platonist, you knew the body was something imperfect which needed to be shed. Meanwhile, Christians had some weird fascination with the body. They would collect body parts of those killed in the persecutions, they would claim that their God became flesh and blood.
Nothaft, C. P. E. "The Origins of the Christmas Date: Some Recent Trends in Historical Research." Church History. Vol. 81, No. 4 (Dec 2012), pp. 903-911.
Altaweel, Mark; Squitieri, Andrea. Revolutionizing a World: From Small States to Universalism in the Pre-Islamic Near East. UCL Press, 2018.
Revell, Louise. "Religion and Ritual in the Western Provinces." Greece & Rome. Second Series, Vol. 54, No. 2 (Oct., 2007), pp. 210-228.
Webster, Jane. "Creolizing the Roman Provinces." American Journal of Archaeology. Vol. 105, No. 2 (Apr., 2001), pp. 209-225.
Could please provide more of your sources? I just stumbled upon your answer which I noticed was written with a lot of care for the subject and I'm currently writing my paper myself (about the religious tolerance of the Romans), so it'd help me a lot in finding good sources in English since my native language seems to lack rather detailed ones. Thanks in advance.
The first paragraph was based on an undergrad paper ages ago. I would look for sources under the heading of Romanization. For example: