The history of the story of Aladdin is complex because it is one of the "orphan" stories that appear in the supplemental nights and was not, consequently, part of the original stories woven together by the Scheherazade frame. That said, it should come as no surprise to find a folktale from anywhere set in what is locally seen as exotic: in this case, "China" is a way of saying "in a far away land." At the same time, it is not unusual for a folktale to fail to depict details of an exotic setting in an accurate way. Typically, the exotic place has specific details that are more reminiscent of the place where the story is told than of the place where the story is supposed to unfold.
To simplify matters when depicting the story in film, the very Arabic features of the story - as you mention, sultans, viziers, bazaars, etc. - are best not confused by a Chinese setting. While western China has an Islamic population, it made more sense to move the setting to Arabia for the various film depictions of the story.
The Aladdin story is Tale Type ATU 561 (with affinity for ATU 560). It has a wide distribution in Europe and the Middle East. In the various tellings, setting is the first to be affected by local perspective and preference. One should not take the Chinese setting of the version appearing in the "Supplemental Nights" too seriously; other variants have other settings.
edit: a fair response, which has since disappeared, asked about the classification system ATU: The point here is not the classification in itself, but rather the fact that the folktale can be classified. It is ubiquitous and has caught the attention of folklorists for a long time. The ATU classification system was originated by the Finnish scholar, Antti Aarne. It was amended by the American Stith Thompson and then most recently by the German folklorist, Hans-Jörg Uther (hence the ATU).
The new Uther edition does the same thing but with the advantage of much subsequent collecting and scholarship. This has enlarged the effort so that it appears in three substantial volumes. Again, all without any examples.
Yes! Thanks for adding this. The "once upon a time" phrase of introduction is just one way to cast the realm of the folktale/fairytale into the exotic. A distant land as another, and clearly, that was the overall intent of this complex of narratives.
Just to add to this, it is worth noting that the Shahrazad frame itself is set in the realms of "India and China", with Shahryar being called a "King of Kings from the house of Sasan". It is conceivable that this framing of the story was influenced by the fact that the Sasanian royal family _did_ flee to China, where they found recognition and employment as military commanders (and briefly re-took some lands in Central Asia). Hence, it's not that strange that someone might think to set a story appended to the Nights in China.
The simple answer is no - which is necessary because of your word "entire." The Aarne-Thompson index of over one thousand folktales is large. In includes descriptions of plots (including plots of common variants), distribution in international archives, bibliographies of each type, and an index. This makes for a sizable volume without including examples - and even then - which ones? Such choices would be guaranteed to offend many nations!
One of the things I insisted on for my recently released, (2018) was an appendix with a type index. My book is NOT a collection of stories found in primary sources. Instead, it is an analysis of many of the narratives one can find in this body of material from the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. I concluded that one of the reasons why folklorists have tended to overlook the valuable Cornish material was for want of a type index, because that is the quick and easy way to tap into what is there. If I am doing a quick comparative analysis of the Aladdin story, for example, and Latvia has a type index (with the story present) but Lithuania does not have an index (even though I might find dozens of examples if I looked), I will work with Latvia and probably not stop to consider Lithuania. My insistence was not without a cost, however. The appendix, which merely lists types and locations in the bibliography, is 3000 words long, representing about 3% of the pages. Because of costs associated with page lenh, this is not something publishers automatically accept.