First off, the very concept of dialects is flawed in and of itself and associates fully whole languages as subsections of a language with similar origins. Therefore to approach this question the mindset that these Germanic languages were completely independent different language who happened to share a common relatively recent linguistic ancestor must be adopted, they were no more dialects than Parisian French or Castillian Spanish are to Roman Italian.
So onwards to the question, these languages were numerous, with each significant (read not incredibly tiny) state having multiple languages which would be hard to understand between themselves or sometimes too different to understand, at least without extensive effort. In other words, even the same people in a region had languages which could vary so much it was essentially a foreign language. Of course, it should be noted that a great number of words could be nevertheless understood thanks to the fact that these languages were of Germanic, they just simply had evolved in different ways.
Take English for example, if you ever read something in German or French you may recognise an astonishing amount of words, that's because the English language as we know it nowadays is largely an evolution of the language of the Angles and Saxons (Germanic languages) alongside the language of the Norman invaders who spoke a langue d'oïl which would explain the French similarities.
This may have gotten a wee bit too much off-topic so to plainly answer your question, the pre-standarddeutsch Berlin-based language made standard by the Prussians, Germanic languages of nowadays Germany had taken on such different ways off evolving and developing that unless a language was in close proximity to another language and those two had recurring exchanges (which would result in dialects evolving more closely) then the language differences were so great that it was essentially mutually unintelligible although many words could sound similar and held the same origin, just like English is now to German or how Franconian languages sounded foreign to someone from Sachsen.
tl;dr: regional languages had evolved so differently from the original Germanic languages that most languages would be virtually unintelligable, an effect which can be seen in modern day vernacular languages in all societies compared to the state languages (like Picard and Parisian French nowadays).
If you want to learn more on languages and regional differences, in general, I recommend getting Laura Ahearn's Living Language: An Introduction to Linguistic Anthropology which is oft given out of students of general linguistic classes and is amazing.
I am a bit surprised that you call for the language of Berlin as the origin of what we now know as "Hochdeutsch", as the language spoken in Berlin differs substantially from that and as far as I am aware the language of Hannover (and region) is far closer to Hochdeutsch. The other thing that surprises me is that you omitted things like the lutheran bible translations and other scriptures that spread far and wide and were intelligible to (mostly) everyone (that could read of course). Was this due to the most differences being in pronounciation and thus a largely understood common vocabulary? Given your remarks about commonalities between english and french I would expect as much? How did unified languages form before 1871? If everything was dictated by prussian Berlin, why would Austrian Vienna or the Swiss Union adopt the same language?
To be honest, it appears this user certainly knows what they’re tracking about in general terms, but is doing a lot of guesswork when it comes to the situation in the German Sprachraum in particular.
Where do you get the idea that the standard language was something created by the Prussians and based on Berlin? I always thought the standard dialect was based more on the cluster of dialects closer to the central part of modern Germany.
Also, why are Austria and Switzerland not mentioned at all in this treatment or the ensuing discussion?
What about the fact that the written language was standardized before a while before the spoken language? What about the influence of Deutsche Bühnenaussprache on what would become the standard spoken language for Germany itself?
The standard language didn’t just pop up out of nowhere in the Prussia-dominated Germany of 1871. There was already a standard written form, and there were standard educated spoken varieties as well. And even the “dialects” were not just random Germanic languages, comparable to Parisian French and Castilian Spanish vis-a-vis Roman Italian; most of them were/are much, much closer to each other in their historical development and mutual intelligibility.
It's impossible to know or accurately estimate how many languages existed at the time or even nowadays, in the world. To give you an idea it is estimated that a quarter of the world's languages are spoken by fewer than a thousand people according to Richard Lewis.
The effect of regional language differences is so great that two villages a moderate amount of kilometres away could have had different words for the same thing. To answer your question Swabians, for instance, did not speak a unified language although the collection of languages spoken in those territories would be closer to themselves than to a farther away Germanic language. Political borders are frankly not a good method to determine linguistic areas, which geographic proximity usually being much more accurate, for instance, two villages in 19th century Germany, one in Württemberg and the other in Bavaria being only a few kilometres away would have languages much more closer to each other than to the languages of their respective state capitals.
Nowadays this is not necessarily true but that is because of language standardisation that now exist and teach a uniform version of a language in schools, hence why now a kid in Baden will be learning the language of Berlin.
EDIT: forgot to answer one part of your question, yes languages can be lumped into general groups hence which language groups such as Franconian exist although they are composed of different languages.