The perception of Samurai being exclusively mounted archers is just as flawed as the one where they’re katana-wielding warriors marching on foot in the heat of every battle. In reality, the samurai were more an economic/political caste, whose role as warriors came and went over the years.
The mounted archer “samurai” was most predominant in the Heian period, (790-1190, give or take 5 years.) During this time, samurai were indeed mostly archers who rode into battle on horseback in flashy armor, though the horses and armor were mostly there to flaunt wealth. Samurai occupied a role one step below that of the Daimyo, or local liege lord. (Daimyo were in turn one step below the Emperor, then later the Shogun, though especially during this time period their agency within their lands was far greater.) Thus, samurai were mostly either court bodyguards or mid-low level nobles (or both), who only occasionally had to march out and disperse peasant revolts or small invasions. During these revolts, they were for the most part greatly outnumbered and up against men with spears and little training or morale. The Katana just isn’t useful during these engagement, so setting up 100 men on a hill and pelting the crowd with arrows (all while looking impressive and rich) usually did the trick. When it came to disputes over territory or what have you between local lords, usually champion samurai were sent out to fight it out, one on one.
This strategy famously fails the samurai of Japan during the invasion of the Mongol Empire in the tail end of the 13th century, and thus the kamakura period (which established feudalism and the daimyo + samurai cast as far more important) ends as one shogunate (the Ashikaga) replace another, (the minamoto.) at this point, samurai are truly samurai, owning small fiefdoms of their own sometimes and even endeavoring at times to spread their own political power.
The warring states period 200+ years later greatly expands the role of the samurai though, who now often take up positions as captains or generals within larger armies. Though the vast majority of soldiers during the time are still just peasants with spears, Samurai increasingly join the fray wielding pole arms, bows, and katana, and as a last resort, short swords known as wakizashi. Still, even during this time, we don’t see many Katana wielding monster samurai.
The warring states period ends with the unification of Japan, and a great period of peace that lasts nearly 250 years. During this new Edo period, samurai mostly lose their day jobs as warriors. They take to academia and courtly business, developing mathematic and philosophical systems, as well as theorizing on science and politics. They maintain their positions, to some extent their power, but with almost no battles to fight over 250 years... the only swordsman samurai still present were third or fourth generation students at swords dojo’s, more hobbyists than real warriors (even though some of them were pretty damned skilled.).
To keep an already long answer from dragging any further: Meiji restoration comes. Half of Japan wants to modernize, half of Japan wants a return to the status quo. Samurai lose their positions early on in Meiji, (were up to the 1870s-1880s by now) and the caste system as a whole breaks down. THIS is when the master swordsman samurai myth emerges and takes shape in a way we might recognize it today. Those who opposed modernization and the end of a long isolationist period harkened back to the past, or a rather fictionalized version of it. Samurai were great warriors now, not politicians or landlords. They fought noble battles with swords, layered 7-8 times over on the forge to be able to pierce STEEL. Thus, a legendary class of warrior roots itself into the zeitgeist of a tense period in Japanese history, and the role, bravery, nobility, and legend of the samurai becomes greatly over exaggerated.
TLDR: Samurai were never entirely mounted archers, nor entirely sword-swinging masters of combat. Sometimes they were a private police force for daimyo, sometimes they owned small bits of land and fought on the side, and sometimes they were a caste of scholars and mathematicians. The image we have of samurai now is greatly influenced by pop culture, which was in turn greatly influenced by the propagandized version of Samurai heralded by the last holdouts of the Edo period, men challenged by modernization and looking for a return to the glory of the past.
Source: graduate student of East Asian studies focused on the theory of nation state sovereignty during the Meiji restoration.
This a very good answer and very informative but i believed that also swords at the time were largely symbolic and were generally back up weapons. I understand that this is the case with medieval knights and that pole weapons were preferred in the battlefield. In a way i understand that they were comprable to handguns, very effective for self defense but not ideal for the battlefield. Was this also the case in Japan with the katana and Tachi?
A further point is that for the most part, Japanese iron was of low quality. So katana could easily break if you sliced with them poorly, or even just used them too much. Spears are just sticks with a tip: even without the tip they work well enough in creating distance to your opponent.