(I'm assuming that you mean an aristocratic lady here, because of the contrast between "lady" and "common man" and your assumption that his title would change. But it needs to be noted that "noble" = "aristocratic" = "has a title of some kind"; I'm ignoring your "non-noble" because it doesn't seem to make sense in this situation. If I've misjudged what situation you're describing, I'm sorry.).
Nope! In the western patriarchal system, a woman took her status from her husband - not the other way around. If she were born to a duke, marquess, or earl, she would have had the courtesy title "Lady Firstname Lastname" from birth; marrying a man without a title (or with only a courtesy title himself) would have made her "Lady Firstname Marriedlastname". If she had her title through having previously been married to a peer and being widowed, she could keep her title as a courtesy but wouldn't pass anything on to her non-titled husband.
"The Honourable Mr./Miss Lastname" was/is a courtesy title by the younger sons of earls, viscounts, and barons and the daughters of viscounts and barons. If the Honourable Miss Lastname married a man without a title, she would become the Honourable Mrs. Marriedlastname.
I had seen no answers from any where if the woman had a higher status and didn't know if it apply the same as a titled man marrying a common woman or if nothing would change.
I'm not really sure what you mean by "an honourable seated title"? A person either has a title or they don't; if they have a title, they're an aristocrat/noble, and if they don't, they're a commoner. I think maybe what you're trying to express is the issue of the gentry vs. the professional and merchant classes vs. what would have been considered the "lower orders" in the period. The landed gentry had large estates and a lot of money, to the point that they didn't work and lived off the interest on their capital and the rents they charged to tenants on their land. They were technically higher status than people who worked for a living, and it's appropriate to use the word "lady" in that context (because the Victorians certainly drew a distinction between respectable ladies and working women), but while unmarried a character in this class would be known as "Miss Lastname" and when married she would be "Mrs. Marriedlastname".
In this instance I'm speaking of a woman owning a whole or piece of a manor titled Lady or Lady of the manor marrying a common man.
I do mean in a non noble fashion. As in she owned a manor. It would be an honourable seated title not passed from the husband or father.
I'm also not sure how vassals fit in with the Victorian era? The rank lower than a baroness (wife of a baron) and higher than a dame (wife of a knight) was "lady", but that was as the wife of a baronet. Women holding any rank on their own rather than as a wife of an aristocrat was extremely rare, women were not given ranks lower than baroness.
An honourable title is a person who is not royalty, or related to the queen and a seated title is owning land.
The hierarchy of English royalty goes down to Baron/Baroness. Then 'vassal' titles like lady/lord, knight/dame (I simply used this to show it wasn't royalty but purely land and property based).
It's an odd and confusing question I'll admit, which is why I haven't found answers on my own solely.
Ah - I see some of what you're going for. (I was reading it as [honourable seated] title rather than honourable [seated title] - although I can't find evidence anywhere that there is such a thing as an "honourable title" beyond the use of "the honourable" in the children of the lower noble titles?) But that's not the hierarchy of English royalty, it's the hierarchy of English nobility. A number of ducal titles were used primarily for princes and the earliest creations of dukedoms were for male relations of the king, but the rest of the dukes, marquesses, earls, viscounts, barons, and baronets were not royal. Hardly any of them, especially by the period you're writing about, could trace their ancestry back to a king. "Lady" and "lord" aren't real titles, they're the way those nobles were addressed - e.g. Earl Spencer was addressed as "Lord Spencer", the Countess of Pembroke was addressed as "Lady Pembroke", the Duke of Norfolk's daughter was Lady Philippa Stewart.
It sounds like you're superimposing ideas from the Middle Ages onto a more modern time period, which might be what's complicating your search for more information. By the nineteenth century, noble titles were simply about a complex system of precedence rather than showing that people were vassals, and people no longer owned manors but estates and houses. "Lady of the manor" was only a figure of speech used to indicate that a woman was a wealthy landowner (in her own right or through her husband) with a paternalistic air toward her tenants, or in reference to common law precedent, which went back to the time when estates were thought of as distinct manors. Knighthoods were given to recognize an individual's service to the crown, usually as a government official, or were purchased.