I’d be wary. Lots pf scammers have gotten adept at impersonating real companies. This has a lot of hallmarks of a classic employment/fake check scam. I would try contacting the company directly via phone or email using contact info found online and not anything these people gave you. Ask them to verify if you are being offered a job.
If they confirm the offer is real, I’d still be cautious. If they want to send you a check to purchase equipment and you are instructed to deposit funds into your account and keep some for your expenses but then send the rest on to someone else, run far away from this. The check they send you will be fraudulent and it’ll charge back leaving you on the hook for fees and any money you withdrew off the check.
Another thing to do to verify things is the company should be registered with some department of the appropriate state in the US. For example in California it is the Department of State, looks like this:
Thank you for the reply. It feels a bit strange to me, too, and that is why I am being so cautious, especially before signing anything or giving them any personal info. I think contacting the company’s official e-mail or tel to speak with the HR is the best move here, just to make sure that everything checks out. Thanks for your time and explaining to me all the details.
Reach out to the person you interviewed with via email. ‘Thanks for the interview, sounds like a great fit, etc.’ And add a question (work schedule, etc). It’s good etiquette, but will also confirm your working with that company directly.
The company is registered and everything checks out. What I’m worried about is if the people I’m talking with are really with the company, and I haven’t talked to them on the phone/video call etc, only instant messaging.
I do not have an email, I can only contact the company directly either by calling them on the phone they have on their website or messaging them on LinkedIn. And the person I’m talking with has not given further contact info, I can only reach them on Slack, which is strange.
If it's a smaller company, you can even try emailing the interviewer using their first-initial last name, or first name dot last initial. Obviously you don't want to come across stalker-ish, but I'm sure they wouldn't mind hearing from you.
I would absolutely then do some more digging. Call their posted number on their website and try to get in touch with the person you interviewed with. Or even HR and ask them.
That’s my plan for now, I won’t sign anything before I verify that I am talking to real people working at the company. The more I dig in the more I think this is a “too good to be true” thing. Thank you for your help.