It's very likely that you will be terminated immediately if you violate this freeze, with no recourse.
The legal justification is that neither your company's owners nor the company acquiring the business want even a whiff of impropriety near the deal. Acquisitions tend to attract regulatory attention at the best of times, and for employees of the acquired company to start trading in the acquiring company before the deal has closed can cause a lot of headaches.
It's medium-sized likely that your trades will be investigated to determine if you have engaged in insider trading - you may not have any material non-public information, but the SEC does not have to presume that on your say-so at all.
Yes, OP could have a lot of insider information about his own company and might know that the public company is about to make a very good, or very bad acquisition. If his position is large enough the SEC certainly could investigate.
That's not what anyone is saying. There are several factual legal bases. Legally, the SEC can fine them if it finds behavior that is problematic. Legally, the SEC can delay or stop the merger if it finds behavior it thinks is problematic. Legally, the SEC can cost all of you money and jobs if there are problematic actions. These are complex, wholistic situations, not like "I was driving 81 in a 65" or rather, "I was driving 64 in a 65." Sounds fine, right? But you were pulled over for something else, and your BAC was 0.03. You can get a DUI conviction for 0.03 or you might be let to go on your merry way. Your company is saying nobody can drink one drop and drive because the risk is there, legally speaking.
SEC insider trading laws are the legal justification. The company could try to keep any material information public or restricted to a very small group, but that is practically very hard with a merger.
What has been made available to other employees is completely irrelevant, especially if all employees are under an NDA. It only matters if you have access to any information that has not been made fully public, including with the required waiting period (of variable lenh, but generally at least 72 business hours) for revealing the information.
Performing a trade will very likely result in you being terminated and investigated for insider trading. How much effort the SEC would put towards the case, as well as the probability of being fined or convicted, depends on a lot of factors that are well beyond anything that can be discussed here.
As a hint, however: if you think you can profit from the knowledge, there is a reasonable chance it would be considered material and, if that information is not fully public (not just to employees, but the actual public), its insider knowledge. As you know a merger is going to happen, while you may not (yet) be an employee of the public company, any material non-public knowledge you have of your current employer is innately also material non-public knowledge of the currently public company.