You have insurance (at least you'd better). She calls your insurance company, files a claim, they handle it and get a legal release from her that guarantees you won't see a lawsuit later. Her deductibles on her insurance are completely irrelevant.
Send her one final message saying you changed your mind and want this handled through insurance. Give her the policy number and the claims phone number. Then stop talking to her, period, no matter what she says in return. Call your insurance yourself to report the claim.
Doing this yourself, without an attorney, is foolhardy. Notarization has no magical powers and will not protect you. Your insurance company will.
I do have insurance yes. So a release of liability form even if notarized still wouldn’t be concrete? Me and her obviously would like to avoid insurance if possible, we both don’t want our rates going up of course. But if you’re saying I should be better safe than sorry and go through insurance then I’d feel more comfortable doing that.
You don't know how to draft a release of liability, and she has no reason to help you draft something that would hold up in court. She has every reason not to, in fact, and she already has an attorney.
Her rates aren't going up. This isn't her fault. The fact that she's amenable to going outside insurance either means she doesn't know anything about how this works, or she deliberately wants to keep her options open.
Yes, you would be better off going through insurance. And your insurance policy probably has a clause requiring you to report this accident anyway.
Although I don't see why you would want to agree to this anyway until you know how much the damages are. And why would you let her choose the highest estimate? The insurance company won't. Why even make her get three if she can choose the one she wants? You could end up thousands of dollars out of pocket, far more than the insurance increase for a few years will end up costing.
It really doesn't seem like you know what you're doing here. Unless one of those attorneys is prepared to fully represent you, just let your insurance company handle this. It's literally why you pay them.
Okay. She already has my insurance info I texted her a copy of the ID card. I’ll send her that text right now letting her I changed my mind. Thank you.
Well. One more follow up actually. I do know of 2 attorneys I could speak to tomorrow am, I’m pretty close with both of them. Would it hurt for me to wait and talk to them tomorrow and see if they can possibly help me draft a release of liability?
You’re correct I do not know what I am doing hence why I am here asking questions. I’m thinking I’m just gonna play it safe and call my insurance, let her know and cut off contact like you said.
If it's like most cars with a plastic bumper cover, you would expect the bumper cover would be replaced but not the full bumper.
Ideally the document you sign should contain a full release of her potential claims against you. You don't want to sign something admitting you were at fault and then have her come back 6 months later saying the accident caused a herniated disc in her back, etc.
“I ___ hereby agree to pay for any expenses resulting from damages I caused during a rear end accident to a vehicle (2009 black Honda accord) driven and owned by _____. I also agree to be responsible for any required deductibles as a result of this accident. Dated: Oct 11, 2021.
Okay. Well I can get that reworded then to reflect what you said. Me sending that text to her already didn’t potentially screw me did it? It obviously hasn’t been notarized or anything yet.
Anything like that can usually be used as evidence whether or not notarized. Nothing to do about the text now, but having everyone sign a release would be good if she's agreeable.
Should I not have sent her that? How should I properly word so she doesn’t come back like you said and claim injury.
Ideally in an accident you wouldn't admit liability, but if you were at fault you might offer or agree to a set amount of compensation in settlement of and for a full release of any actual or potential claims. The settlement agreement often doesn't mention either party's liability at all.