Qualification: I'm an Israeli and did my BA in Political Sciences in Israel, which included quite a few courses about Israeli history and politics.
There was indeed much internal debate between the Yishuv's (The Jewish collective residing in Palestine/Israel) at the time regarding the name. The answer why the name Israel was chosen is not conclusive. Today there's a lot of speculative justifications, but I can't find a single primary source (meeting protocols or even memoirs) that refers to the decision making process. Ben-Guiron (Israel's first PM) himself is quoted saying that he doesn't remember how and why that name was chosen. We know that Moshe Sharet (Israel's first FM and second PM) used the term Medinat Israel (State of Israel) at least since 1946. Some say that it was some Jewish writer named Issac Franhoff who predicted and suggested the name at the end of the 19th century, coinciding in the years of Theodore Herzl's activities. [1].
Among the names suggested for the state - Judea was indeed among them - were also Zion and Ever. I think it'll be best if we look at the origins of these names.
[1] - A letter in Haaretz, posted in 1965 by author Aharon Reuveni who claims to be the first person in the Yishuv to suggest the name Israel. The letter includes a chronicle of the events, a possible one, but definitely not a definitive one.
But we do know that publicly there was a debate in Israeli society since November 29th, 1947 - the date of the vote of the Partition Plan. The Partition Plan for the Yishuv was and still is considered today as a major legitimization and recognition factor of the Jewish people's right to a homeland in Eretz Israel/Palestine. For the Yishuv, the Partition Plan was basically the "charter" that Herzl sought throughout his years (Herzl was what is considered in Israel a "Political Zionist", he was politically opposed to the Socialist Zionists who came to Israel and worked on building the foundations of the state, because he believed that the Zionist movement must first attain a charter - political permission and backing of the major powers at the time). The Jewish public cheered and celebrated the decision on the streets, and began asking the question - if we are to have a state, what should it be called? Many people claim to be those who first suggested the state to be called Israel. I managed to find a single source in Hebrew that chronicles some writings, but please consider it biased since the writer himself is also one of said claimers (he claims to have suggested the name Israel in December 5th, 1947, a week after the vote on the Partition Plan). [1].
It certainly makes sense that Israel, Judea and Zion would be on the list. But what's the deal with Ever? I don't think I've ever even heard of that one before.
The name Israel is recorded about 2,000 times in the Torah. It's the name given to Jacob, one of the three Patriarchs of the Israelites, after he wrestled with the angel of God in the desert. The Jewish people, see themselves as all descendants of the Israelites and obviously as a consequence - of Jacob (Israel). Throughout Jewish history, the Jewish people referred to themselves as בני ישראל - Sons of Israel, and to the land of Israel - ארץ ישראל/Eretz Israel - (literally, the land of Israel). This name has enormous importance in the historiography of the Jewish people. Let's look for a moment on Judea - Judea was one of the Israelite kingdoms in the times of the Torah. It existed alongside the Israeli Kingdom (ממלכת ישראל, ממלכת יהודה). These kingdoms used to be a single unified kingdom called the Kingdom of Israel, until they split after the death of King Solomon. The Kingdom of Israel was comprised of ten of the Israelite tribes, while the Kingdom of Judea was comprised out of the remaining two. The Tribes of Israel are named of-course, after the sons of Jacob: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun, Dan, Naphtali, Gad, Asher, Ephraim, Manasseh and Benjamin. The Kingdom of Judea was controlled by House of David, of the Judah Tribe and also included the Benjamin tribe. The Kingdom of Israel, after the split was defeated and annexed by the Assyrians, while later the kingdom of Judea was defeated by the Persians. All later ancient Israelite/Jewish kingdoms (The return of the Judean Israelites from Persia and later the Hashmoneans were based on the Kingdom of Judea, which controlled Jerusalem and had access to the Temple.
A few good reasons why Judea wasn't chosen might be because the Yishuv believed that its mission is Kibbutz Galuyot - originally a promise from God to the Israelites that happened in the Torah quite a few times - it has been promised to Moses and later to all the Jewish people by the prophets - that one day all the Jewish people will return from their worldwide exile and return to a unified country. (Isiah 11:11-12, Jeremiah 29:14, Ezekiel 20:31). It matters because the people of the Kingdom of Israel and the people of the Kingdom of Judea were exiled to different places, and the promise effectively promises to bring them together - regardless of where they come from. So that's one. Another reason - is that the Yishuv knew that when they will have a state, it will include Arab citizens. The Israeli declaration of Independence makes an appeal to the Arabs to join the Jews in the building of the country and avoid war and bloodshed. Some Arabs fled or were exiled by the Jewish forces, other Arabs stayed - for example, Arabs in Haifa and the Galilee. The name Jews is derived from Judea and Judah. Yehudim - Jews in Hebrew, comes from Yehudah - Judah, the namesake of Judea. The Israelis didn't want alienate Arabs and other non-Jewish minorities in their declaration, which included a charter of equal rights to all citizens, so obviously they didn't want to alienate them with the name (even though, it's still not perfect, as you can see.) Another reason is because the Partition Plan actually didn't include the territory of the historical Judean kingdoms, but did include the territory of the split Israeli kingdom, so naming the state after a territory it isn't going to posses according to a UN decision was going to ruffle some feathers.
1) Another reason why it might have important to name the state Israel instead of Judea was to distinguish between Jewish identity and Israeli citizenship. As I said, the declaration asks the non-Jewish minorities to be partners in the building of the state (whether it was a real intention or not, or whether it was followed-up - is beyond the scope of this post), but it was important for the founders to highlight that you don't need to be Jewish to be part of the State. It is also of-course worth noting, that the declaration was of-course written under the understanding that all eyes would be directed at the newly born state, and it would have to make a good impression on popular opinion. Things didn't necessarily happen according to the vision of the declaration of independence, and it is NOT considered a binding legal document like a constitution. Judges are free to use it as support for their decisions, but also free to completely ignore it.