I know you're saying that people outside the family have made reports to CPS but why has no one on your family called CPS to report the physical abuse?
In the first paragraph i think i mentioned it but, my grandfather has tried calling and he was vilified by other people in our family that view my sister as a princess. They did come at his behest but like the other 2 times, they interviewed her for 10 minutes and left without coming back.
I can't speak for where you are, but where I live CPS tends to have minimal response initially, but do respond to squeaky wheel situations where they keep getting a lot of calls. You absolutely can explore having someone get custody with a private attorney, but if the parent is unwilling and there isn't a huge paper trail, I think it's not going to be likely. It really depends on the exact situation, but there is a good chance your sister would not pay child support. Anyway, even if it seems like nothing happens, it is definitely worth it to keep calling CPS, because sometimes the twentieth person calling about a family is the one that tips the scales.
I'm sorry that both your stepfather and CPS didn't protect you as a kid, and that your nephews/nieces aren't being cared for you properly.
CPS in my area is woefully inadequate. When i was 14 I was beat into a concussion by my step father and my school counselor, a teacher, and both my grandparents called CPS, and they only interviewed him without talking to or even looking at me, and they never came back. At least in my area, they seem to offer no avenue for help.
3. Call the police where they might be involved, which would be physical abuse and drug use. Again, this isn't going to be a one-time thing. You have to keep reporting things as they happen. The police are going to be most helpful if something is in progress not several days later.
Have you written all this out (every single concern) and you and your family told the CPS workers about it all?
I’d think especially when the children have bruises on them - if CPS were to see that. And see the repeating pattern of reports that keep coming in - something would eventually be done.
But yes you can file for guardianship or custody through family courts. You can also call the cops. But their burden of proof is often even higher than CPS’s burden of proof.
1. Document everything that happens. Be specific and backup any electronic evidence. Record the date, time, and what happened as a minimum.