What do you mean, "sneakily"? Are these legitimate charges or are they fraud? If the latter, you should be reporting them to the bank as such, so that they can reverse the charges and refund you the fees. If they're legitimate, you need to do a better job of staying on top of your balance so that you don't incur overdraft fees.
They are legitimate charges but the thing is BOA doesn’t post the items so the balance doesn’t reflect correctly. They delay the posting if that makes sense which tends to happen overnight.
Years ago there was talk of outlawing this, and some states may have done so. File a complaint with your state banking regulator. Even if it's not illegal, some banks will revert charges of this nature when a government complaint is filed -- even though they don't have to.
Talking to the Banker, he said that its because items are processing in the “background” which isn’t knowledge to us- only to the bank. Which doesnt give us an opportunity to bring the balance back up.
you absolutely have a way to make sure you aren't going negative... don't spend money that you don't have. unfortunately this requires more than simply looking at your balance in your account. you have to keep track of what you've spent independently, because even if the bank wanted to show it all to you, they don't have all the information available to be able to show it to you in advance.
Banks generally (and unethically) post transactions in whatever order makes them the most money. So if you start with a $0 balance, then deposit $500 cash, then 12 hours later use your debit card to make a $100 purchase, the bank will run your purchase first and then post your deposit.
when you use your debit card as "credit", typically these transactions will show pending (and deducted from your available balance) 1-3 days before they actually post to your account. they post to your account after the credit card processor the merchant uses settles these transactions which are done in a large batch process at night. unfortunately these companies don't have to settle within the 3 days these transactions are pending and some transactions are authorized for $1 and then the real charge is only known to the bank during that settlement process (think gasoline purchases) additionally, they have no idea what transactions you've authorized on a reoccurring basis (which typically, if done with a debit card, don't get reauthorized for each transaction and just come through during the settlement process... if it's with your routing and account number, there is no pending timeframe).
u/CatOfTheDecade mentioned debt resequencing, which banks have flat out ranked transactions largest to smallest in order to maximize overdraft fees... if you woke up with -116 with $75 of that being overdraft fees, debt resequencing might have caused one of those fees, but ultimately you spent more money than you had.
with the update to reg-e a few years ago, they included limitations to covering transactions authorized on debit cards. if you tell BOA that you decline debit card overdraft protection, they cannot charge you overdraft fees for debit card transactions that overdraft your account unless it's a reoccurring transaction. ACH, check, in branch, ATM, and reoccurring debit card transactions can still be charged OD fees and they can reorder them so the protected ones happen first.