Randall J Stephens' 2018 book The Devil's Music: How Christians Inspired, Condemned, and Embraced Rock'n'Roll has a chapter specifically devoted to the 'bigger than Jesus' controversy, which is useful in terms of putting it in context in terms of the way that American conservative Christians reacted to pop culture in the 1960s.
Firstly, it's important to remember that the Supreme Governor of the Church of England - The Queen - awarded MBEs to the Beatles in 1965, which at the time was sort of seen as an apology for taxing their earnings so heavily. Judging by a 2021 article by Marcus Collins in Popular Music, The Beatles certainly were criticised by religious conservatives in the UK - Malcolm Muggeridge (later famous for a televised debate with Michael Palin and John Cleese over Life Of Brian) argued that the Beatles phenomenon was essentially 'the bad dreams of a materialistic society', while the English Catholic Christopher Booker thought that Beatlemania was indicative of the declining psychic health of England, brought on by declining class distinctions and decolonisation.
According to Stevens, Lennon's comments to Maureen Cleave in an April 1966 edition of the London broadsheet newspaper the Evening Standard (later republished in a magazine aimed at teen girls in the US) were based on his having read the 1965 book The Passover Plot by Hugh J. Schonfield, a bestseller which argued that the Passion narrative in the gospels was a sort of conspiracy/plot that was carefully designed to make Jesus look like the messiah, and that Jesus's disciples were largely unaware of the machinations behind events.
In the UK context, anyone reading Lennon's comments would probably made the connection that Lennon had read The Passover Plot. Lennon's takeaway from The Passover Plot was, if you read his comments in full, that the same social hysteria that he saw in The Passover Plot was present in the Passion narrative was also present in 1960s Beatlemania; Lennon was deeply uncomfortable with the common phenomenon of disabled children being brought backstage to be touched by a Beatle, a discomfort he expressed through impersonating/parodying disabled people on stage (which, let's face it, is Lennon being an ableist asshole). Lennon felt that these children were being brought to them to be healed by a pop band, and he hated it. So the remarks passed without much comment, as Lennon was contributing to a discourse in British society that already existed.
In terms of why it provoked a massive uproar in the US, the Cleave interview came to be published in the U.S. not in a similar broadsheet newspaper, but instead in the teen-girl oriented Datebook. In a very 'won't somebody think of the children?!' kind of way, it's one thing to discuss the Beatles being more popular than Jesus in a hoity-toity newspaper that will largely be read by sober adults, but it's another thing to tell impressionable teen girls that Christianity will become extinct.
But also, if you look at the reaction to the 'bigger than Jesus' comment in the US, it's noticeably dominated by the Bible Belt, that part of the US where evangelical Protestantism has retained its influence (and which very often had a history of slavery and then Jim Crow - which Paul McCartney actually attacked in an interview republished in that same issue of Datebook). To give a flavour of the most disturbing reactions to the 'bigger than Jesus' comment, from the Stephens book:
Broadly speaking, Southern evangelical Protestantism was hostile to American secular pop culture in the first place. As the 1960s progressed and the 1960s counterculture that the Beatles became increasingly attached to became more prominent in the media, elements of Southern evangelical Protestantism saw the encroachment of moral deterioration. Amongst other things, in 1960, a Catholic was elected as President; in 1962, the Supreme Court banned official school prayer; and in 1963, the reading of scripture in public schools was forbidden.
Infamously, in April 1966, Time magazine had published a controversial cover article titled, 'Is God Dead?', echoing Nietzsche's sentiments from almost a century beforehand (as the title of an article about Christian thinkers trying to find new ways to move forward in an increasing secular world).
Lennon's comments in the US, then, were taken by socially conservative Southern evangelicals as proof in the pudding that the Beatles were part of this moral deterioration.
The geographical location of the radio stations that banned the Beatles from their airwaves also tells a similar story: Stephens mentions WRNB in New Bern, North Carolina, WAKY in Louisville, Kentucky, KOB in Albuquerque, New Mexico, WAQY in Birmingham, Alabama, two stations in Texas, and one station in South Dakota.
The conservative Christians behind the Beatles boycott were already concerned by Beatlemania, which was of course such a prominent feature of pop culture in 1964-1965 that they could not have failed to notice it. One Dr. Bernard Saibel said in the Boston Globe of the Beatles' concerts that:
Conservative Christians initially thought that the Beatles were a fad, like the fad around Elvis, that would soon pass. Comments by Billy Graham, soon after watching an Ed Sullivan Show performance, reflected this general belief; the Beatles "represent the restlessness and the longing of young people today for something off-beat, something dif­ferent" (which Graham of course saw as "confusion", as that 'something different' should in his eyes be Jesus).
have reached the stage where” even this reader of the titillating bachelor magazine was “getting worried.” He related how his “daughter and a number of the other kids in the neighborhood have formed a real cult over the Beatles.” The enthralled teens had “built an altar in one girl’s bedroom and they burn candles and recite Beatle prayers they have written.” They even went so far as to compose “a Beatle Bible which starts out, ‘in the beginning the Beatles created rock and roll.’".
As a result, fundamentalist preachers encouraging Beatles fans to burn their Beatles records was already happening in 1965, well before Lennon made his comments. According to Stephens:
> In truth, the rock star’s comment, however flippant, was certainly in line with the prevailing wisdom of critics, opinion makers, and academics. Throughout the 1960s, numerous observers were sure that organized religion, even in America, was on the decline. The uproar that surrounded the Time magazine God-is-dead story was only one manifestation of that consensus. Secularism was the order of the day. Those who denied it, said sociologists and philosophers, were deluding themselves. Secularization theory served as the master model of the era.
In contrast to the evangelicals, 'mainline Protestants' in the US were less likely to want to forbid the Beatles, and saw the controversy as an opportunity for soul-searching. Stephens reports that:
Fantastic answer and one of the best I've read in this sub. Thank you very much. I have a few questions though.
1.) Did the rest of the US echo the sentiments by evangelical Protestantism in regards to Lennon's statement of being bigger than Jesus ? I always felt that the Americans(maybe arguably till today) were more conservative and were repulsed at the idea that a pop cultural icon could surpass Jesus . Also, did any group as far as you are aware in the UK voice out opposition to Lennon's quote ?
But, basically, Lennon's comments were indicative of a struggle between secular society and religious society.
Broadly speaking, no - the ‘bigger than Jesus’ controversy did seem to be mostly concentrated in the South, though it did attract comment from conservative-minded pastors in the North. However, it didn’t attract the same wellspring of support in terms of radio stations banning their records and prominent public record burnings.
The now infamous Lennon quote in Cleave’s article seemingly didn’t attract any comment when it was published in the Evening Standard or when it was re-published in the New York Times. As I pointed out in the answer, Lennon’s comments on being bigger than Jesus and how Christianity would go weren’t out of the ordinary in the British context because of the Passover Plot’s popularity, and because there was a decline in churchgoing in Britain at the time, that was relatively often commented on and/or parodied by comedy shows.
As for Revolver, 1966 was very early in the world of serious pop music criticism - Crawdaddy was still basically a zine at this point, and Rolling Stone was not yet publishing. The current delineation of what is important enough to merit entry to the canon had not yet formed - but in fact, in 1966 it was not even clear that albums were the premier form of expression in rock (thus why Revolver was cut up in the US.) So there was not nearly the same focus on reviewing albums as there was even a year later (when S Peppers came out). S Peppers did change the game in this regard, being the first wildly successful rock concept album (or, at least, an album that felt like the individual songs were meant to be integrated into a greater whole), and which was packaged in a way to make it clear that this was the case (which Revolver was not). I think that stuff plays a role in perceptions of Revolver in the early days of pop music journalism than the ‘Bigger Than Jesus’ controversy, which if anything probably made most of the critics more sympathetic to the band.