“And yes, this is the federal government that stands up for people’s rights and freedoms and we are absolutely looking at all different options.”.
“It would be much better if instead of the federal government having to weigh in and say, ‘You really shouldn’t do this, provincial governments,’ it should be Canadians saying, ‘Hold on a minute; you’re suspending my right to collective bargaining? You’re suspending fundamental rights and freedoms that are afforded to us in the Charter?’” Trudeau said.
It should be, but eliminating it is not only nigh impossible, doing so would likely lead to a revival of Quebec successionism and further incite conservative provinces like the Prairies. I can see the cries of "Ottawa is restricting our right to govern ourselves" already.
“The outrage we’re seeing across the country right now at this latest use, building on top of previous uses that I have consistently condemned, is a moment for all Canadians to reflect and say, ‘Yeah, our fundamental rights are not to be cancelled away by governments who want to get things done in the easiest and most efficient way possible at the cost of people’s fundamental freedoms.’”.
For thousands of years, quarantines have been an effective measure to protect the PUBLIC HEALTH at the minor inconvenience of everyone, including whiny rightwing cowardly selfish assholes.
you mean like taking people jobs away because of their medical choices? or forcing people to give out personal medical information to anyone who asks?
what emergency? you mean the thousands that died in care homes? the federal government did nothing to help that at all. that was where the emergency was. and what every government ignored. we dont even get updates on covid deaths on care homes anymore, but people are still dying there in large numbers.
the federal government has done nothing to help with covid.. only things to make itself look good.. stop border crossing, while flying all over the world to bring Canadians home but not testing any to see if they had covid. forced detention in hotels that had no staff, no food, no services, people in jail had a better life.