You're definitely right- 'popular' history has it that the Committee of Public Safety (CPS from here on out)- and Robespierre specifically- were dictators throughout the Reign of Terror. It's a lot easier to say that than to explain the complex power dynamics actually at play, and unfortunately it gives us a lot more negative of a picture of the CPS, the sans-culotte, and ESPECIALLY Robespierre, who became the scapegoat for everything anyone saw as negative in the Revolution- starting at the moment of his death.
So while the CPS is rightly seen as having a great amount of power and influence, they certainly were not all powerful, and did more to streamline, drive, and shape laws and debates rather than hand them down to a subservient and passive Convention body.
It has been more-or-less refuted that the CPS was a dictatorship. In fact we see that, while they certainly held great central authority, the didn't have nearly the total control they're portrayed as. In fact the National Convention almost takes a backseat in our conception of the French Revolution at this point, as if they were merely a bunch of dudes sitting idly in a room while the CPS did everything. Or perhaps that they rubberstamped what the CPS told them to do. On the contrary the National Convention was still operating as the Government of France, with the CPS acting as more of a strong guiding Executive. I think a great example of the limit to the CPS's power relative to the National Convention is the fact that, when the CPS tried to pass a law making the Representatives on Mission (those Convention members tasked with various objectives and dispatched out to the departements with virtually totally autonomy of authority) subservient to them, the National Convention voted them down. The CPS had been attempting to do this because they felt (Robespierre in particular) that the uneven application of justice between Representatives on Mission was harmful to the Revolution (some were super lenient, some were extremely bloodthirsty). But the National Convention refused to cede this authority to the CPS on several occasions.
Another way we can see this is in Georges Couthon's letters to his home departement about the state of their pending grain shipment. He was trying to get them grain, but it kept getting intercepted by the army or other departements, though he was trying to work with the Subsistence Commission (another important committee) to intercede in their favor.
So on to your question: Did the sans-culotte form a dictatorship by which they forced their own specific will on the governmental bodies of France?
Now onto "the Parisians". So I think it's important to point out that Paris had a population of around 650,000 on the eve of the Revolution, but most major insurrections numbered around the 10k-50k mark (could climb higher if National Guardsmen are involved). It's hard to find someone who wants to give hard numbers, so estimates vary, but it was certainly never anything approaching a majority of Parisians who were actively imposing their will on the legislative bodies. This is why you usually see them referred to as sans-culotte rather than Parisians in general.
Once again this tries to attribute too much to one group, and ignores what the rest of France thought. Many histories of the French Revolution are guilty of an overly Paris-centric view, only zooming out when describing 'Paris' dealing with some crisis in the Vendée, or on the war front. Thankfully however there have been some great histories recently that try to mine the data (letters, bulletins, diaries, etc.) from the rest of France during the Revolution to paint a much broader picture.
I think there is something very important to keep in mind: the vast majority of France was not in insurrection, nor hostile, to the National Convention during the Terror. While we focus (understandably) on those places that were in open revolt, this was the exception, not the norm. Peter McPhee does an excellent job in Liberty or Death of giving accounts of the departements as often as possible to get a wider feel for the Revolution. Think of the Jacobin Club-- their immense success as a political club has been attributed in large part to their creation of ancillary clubs in towns and cities all across France. These clubs were created by and constituted of Jacobins-- even in places like the Vendée. There were patriotic men and women in most cities, towns and villages across France who were in agreement with the aims of those Jacobins in power; who generally were in agreement with the sans-culotte (though of course they differed on important questions, and most importantly might not have agreed with the hyper radical enragés, went too far left).
Another interesting fact that came up in McPhee's studies is how day-laborers and artisans in cities across France consciously referred to themselves as sans-culottes. Even those whose economic status might put them above that bracket presented themselves as a sans-culotte in name and in dress. There certainly was a more widespread identification with the principles held by the more militant Parisians than is usually presented.
Now the counter-argument to all of this is the Federalist view, which aligns most factionally with the Girondins. They believed that the Parisians were exerting too much of a direct influence on the government and wanted to move to another city in France where they would be 'safe' from the mobs. I think a good counter\-counter example to this view is the Insurrection of August 10, aka the overthrow of the monarchy. This was the famous (or infamous) storming of the Tuileries Palace, where the King & Queen were taken prisoner and the monarchy abolished shortly thereafter (with a Republic officially declared in September). This insurrection was largely thanks to, and lead by, the federes, National Guard groups from the various departements of France, notably lead by the men from Marseilles but containing troops from many different areas.
I think it is fair to say that the people of Paris were able to exert a large influence on the Convention, however I do not see this as being as out of touch with the rest of France as often presented. As decrees went out from Paris, each municipality administered them to their constituents in their own way- but there was not a widespread hatred of the government during the Terror that would make us construe it as peoples having laws 'forced' upon them.
Perhaps a final good illustration is to look at an event I'd characterize as being one of the most directly influenced by Parisians specifically-- the Insurrection of May 31 - June 2, aka the Purge of the Girondins, where 22 National Convention deputies were kicked out of the Convention and put under house arrest. This was an audacious move as these were representatives democratically elected by their constituents, but were seen as treasonous by le peuple in the continual attempts to first save the King, and then repeated undermining of social welfare initiatives.
While there were some revolts directly caused by this purging (though the popular Federalist revolt started before this) there was no real threat to Paris. Some of the deputies who escaped house arrest tried to levy an army of 80,000 men to march on Paris-- but they couldn't get more than a few thousand in each city where they tried, and none of these militias wished to leave their hometown, link up, and march on Paris. It is telling that while the Vendée rebels (who fought to bring back King & Church) could muster a large enough army to actually contest the French, the ousting of provincial deputies received not much more than a blip.
So to sum up-- power was concentrated by the CPS, but they held nothing close to a dictatorship. The Parisians might have been able to exert physical influence, but their social and political aims were not at odds enough with those outside of Paris to view them as a separate dictatorship. I think the government during the Terror is perhaps best characterized as an Emergency Government that consisted of four pillars, the CPS as the driving executive force, the National Convention as the base of power, and Representatives on Mission helping to physically localize this power around France. The fourth pillar is all the levels of local government, who, while taking direction from the CPS, still exerted a real presence and authority in their spheres of influence. I do not think any of these groups- nor the people of Paris themselves, were all powerful, and so I think the term 'dictatorship' doesn't apply.
Interestingly enough I've read Liberty or Death, Twelve Who Ruled and The Coming of the Terror in the French Revolution but was unable to synthesize this argument myself. Thank you a lot for this. It feels like I knew a lot of this (especially the crazy comment I kept repeating, I agree that the people of Paris weren't crazy when there's an army literally outside of Paris ready to kill everyone inside) but wasn't able to synthesize it.
I actually have a followup despite this comment being perfect, exactly what I asked for I've never heard anything synthesized this well.
He absolutely cannot be sidelined; neither was he a dictator. So your question is great-- "what was his actual control over the Revolution?" Oh I'm getting excited to answer this already!
Hunt, Lynn. Politics, Culture, and Class in the French Revolution. University of California Press, 1984.
What was Robespierre's actual control over the course of the revolution? He obviously can't be described as a dictator as most popular histories paint him as but it also seems impossible to sideline him correct?
\if you're curious-- Camus was 1 most frequent with 605 speeches, Mirabeau second at 439. McPhee notes that "two-thirds \[of the delegates\] spoke once or twice, if at all".