Just to note, the Japanese did not necessarily see their culture as originating from China. Rather, while there was considerable adoption of religion, political organization, writing, and many aspects of culture, the Japanese still maintained their own traditions and customs, with their own origin mythology. Moreover, as you may read in the linked threads, Imperial Japanese society did not simply view Chinese as "subhuman". There was an escalation of nationalism and imperialism during the late 19th and 20th century, and official narratives developed as the war and empire project expanded.
I have a question regarding this passage: "A sort of miscommunication occurred, as the Japanese used the characters for "Emperor" in their message, referring to the restored Meiji, which offended the Koreans who at the time closely-held ties with Qing China and recognized the Qing Emperor as the emperor." Does that mean that the Korean did not recognize the emperor of Japan as their emperor or that they thought he was not an emperor at all? Was it not possible to consider both the emperor of China and of Japan as emperors?
As for the most specific issue of racism, if I understand you correctly your point is that Japan did not regard Chinese as genetically inferior in the same faschion than the nazis saw Jews and Slavs but more like people to be saved from European imperialism/conquered for the good of Japan, whatever the cost?
Yes, the Koreans did not recognize the emperor of Japan as their emperor, since being an emperor meant Japan's sovereign was elevated to the equal of China's sovereign. Because Korea was ceremonially subservient to China, by suggesting Japan had an emperor, this would mean under the Confucian system, the Korean king was in a lower position to the Japanese emperor. Which might seem frivolous, but in terms of diplomatic conduct and orthodox formalities it was outrageous. The Japanese had previously had diplomatic contact with Korea via the island of Tsushima, with the So clan as intermediaries. When Japan "restored" the emperor and restructured their government, from their perspective, it was natural to use the emperor term, but to the Koreans, it suggested an affront to their national dignity. What's important is that in this time, Korea was adamant about its closed door policy, and this and other diplomatic contention insulted the Japanese, which led to the Seikanron debate over sending a punitive expedition to Korea. The consequences of this led to a minor civil conflict, and later military restructuring, but it was an important step in Japanese Imperialism and diplomacy in the late 19th century.
This has relevant reading on Sino-Japanese relations in the modern period: I don't have much that specializes on the concept of king and emperor unfortunately.
I have surface level knowledge of Nazi ideology so I cannot make comparisons. Japanese nationalism varied in thought, some believed in pan-Asianism, some believed in innate superiority of the Japanese civilization. And official narratives do not always reflect reality. Japan might claim to restore Emperor Puyi in Manchukuo, however it was an unbalanced relationship in which Manchurian industry primarily serviced Japanese interests. Similar parallels may be observed across the Greater East Asia Co-prosperity Sphere. I don't wish to spread misinformation or be misleading on a field I don't specialize in. These threads may interest you:
I'm not OP, but intrigued with this. Do you mind sharing something I can read further about this political ideology/philosophy? On the concept of king and emperor in Korea/China and Japan.