Generally, you don't. Most companies have no interest in _ideas_ from outside sources - ideas are pretty much worthless even when they're promising, and most ideas aren't promising.
If you have an interest in developing this idea into something salable, you've got two ways to go about it. The first is to build your own business around it. The second is to take up a job in an existing business.
If you go into business yourself, you have a fair bit of control over how that business functions. You can, for example, decide to only do business with clients who sign an exclusivity or nondisclosure agreement, or register your own patents, or take up other measures to ensure that people who benefit from your idea and its execution pay you for the privilege. However, you also take on all the risks of a business owner - you have payroll to meet, you need your own insurance, you probably need to find investors or borrow money to get it off the ground, and so on.
If you get a job, then you have a lot less control. You will almost certainly have to give up control of the idea and the resulting products and services to your employer and will likely have little or no option to benefit from it if it's successful. On the other hand, it's a lot less risky - you get paid regardless of whether your idea pans out, unless you get yourself fired or quit.
That’s the main point. Companies have very little interest in buying ideas. They either see proof of concept from a business you start or get to the point where you can get a company to adopt it.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Thank you for the response. I guess I already knew a lot of what you posted, though some was actually pretty helpful. However, the idea would benefit insurance companies - new way of charging a price disparity between its customers. Starting a my own life/health/accident/disability insurance company is out of my wheel house. I have an MBA, but like no, way too much for me haha. Maybe I could try any patent the idea and attempt to contact companies sell the idea, if they entertain my idea, with exclusivity & non-disclosure agreements. Anyway thanks again, truly do appreciate the response.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.