I would say you FIRST need to file a wage/labor standards claim, then once that is happening, you should quit. You'll want to contact a lawyer first, but I got a good lucky feeling that that contract is unenforceable.
Since you're paid "off the books" I would guess they are trying to treat you like an independent contractor. IANAL and I am not familiar with employment in your state but if any regulator in your jurisdiction agrees that you're an IC I'll headbutt an egg. Wage claims are not acceptable if you are an IC, so the good news is that they will conduct the analysis and make a determination as part of investigating your claim. Since you're paid off the books, they are LIKELY not paying additional payroll costs adsociated with your employment and come tax time, when you report that to the IRS, you may find it helpful yo have the documentation from your state concerning the claim and their findings which will likely be: your ACTUAL GROSS WAGES and that you are NOT an independent contractor.
I am not paid overtime and im paid off the books and it does not specify working conditions in the contract… the receptionist definitely wrote it up herself.
And document EVERYTHING that you can, including any texts asking you to come in to work. Anything that would document you working more than 40 hours/week.
Did they actually put in the contract that you don't get paid OT? That would be awesome evidence because from what I understand, (NAL) you can't just sign your legal right to OT away. But any attorneys, please correct me if I'm wrong.
Holy crap. I saw everyone saying you don't need to worry about the 5k because they'll be in trouble for tax evasion, but they'd be in more trouble too for not paying OT. They obviously put that stipulation in the contract because they can't keep anyone for 6 months. How much OT do you think they owe you? Is the regular pay even good? Keep ALL the evidence of time worked you can find. If it's in the books that you provided a spa treatment at a certain time and day, make a copy.