Absolutely! And I know that I've actually answered this question before, but can't seem to find the link.
The easy answer is yes, they definitely did. Alaskan Eskimos in fact remained aware of the other side of the Berring Strait - i.e. it was a body of water that they crossed at times, the same would be true of Inuit living at the Eastern end of the Arctic - Greenland was definitely a known place "across" the Atlantic from them.
I don't know much about Eastern North America, or much about South and Central American Indigenous histories (besides bits and pieces like Viracocha leaving and crossing the Pacific), but I do know that in the Pacific Northwest there are stories of crossing the Pacific, circling the Pacific, or of people coming from across the Pacific.
Part of many origin stories for different lineages begin with a journey to the lands of the copper, abalone, and so on. These aren't always in the same place, sometimes the copper is in the far north, other times it is across the sea, or even to the East. In the Nuxalk story of the Salmon boy there is a good example of at least one of these stories. The Salmon boy and his brother travel to the west, visiting in turn various lands of the fish people which are located out across the open sea, where the salmon people live, who wear salmon skin clothing (McIlwraith "The Bella Coola Indians" and oral stories). This always makes me think of the Ainu, indigenous Japanese who did wear salmon-skin clothing, but the chances are that this story has more to do with the order of fish arriving in the spring.
I have several personal accounts of Nuxalk people who say that they have met Pacific Islanders who have the opposite story in their lineages, but have yet to find an independent source for it, but between this and the theories of Thor Heyerdahl (who spent time in Bella Coola during the war) regarding connections between the area and New Zealand, the nation here has developed quite a strong relationship with several communities in New Zealand, resulting in a number of marriages and large group trips.
I'm no doubt butchering the story, but the performer explained how the women in her family are keepers of a Maori origin story, in which 8 boats traveled from their ancestral homeland. Unfortunately the boats were separated at sea, and only one landed in Aotearoa, which became their home. The other 7 boats were presumed lost forever. This story, she said, had been passed down in her family for as long as Maori had lived in New Zealand.
Then there are other stories that are more historical. There's a story recorded by Cliff Kopas (also a story about the Bella Coola Valley) where it talks of canoes who arrive in the valley, with people in them who wear grass clothing. They stay for several years, then return to where they came from.
If this is an area of research interest for you or /u/muskwatch, I have an anecdote with dates that might help you track down a source:
On or around 10 September 2015, I attended a performance at the Ḵay Llnagaay Heritage Centre in Skidegate, on Haida Gwaii, off the coast of British Columbia, Canada. I unfortunately cannot find the performer's name, but she was a Maori woman who noted that she had spent significant time living with the indigenous peoples of the North American pacific northwest. Her music blended genres and cultures, but included a significant focus on "looping" (playing short repeated recordings overtop of one another to compose music). If I had to guess I'd say she was in her mid-30s at the time, but this was 5 years ago and I don't have many records, so I could be off by 10+ years.
She said that on her first visit to BC, she told this story to a group of indigenous elders, who grew very excited. Through translators, they arranged for her to meet a elder woman from another band, who had a story of her own:
The origin story of this indigenous group (one family? A band? Haida? Tlingit? Tsimshian? I don't remember), as kept by this elder and passed down through the generations, again to the best of my recollection, was that 8 canoes had left their ancestral lands in search of a new home. The ships were separated at sea, but managed to regroup--All except for one, which was presumed lost forever.
So the tale of the meeting of the two women, both keepers of stories, each seemingly complimented by the other, was extremely moving. The lost boat had finally been found, after bejng separated by thousands of miles, 1000 years later, etc etc. Not a lot of dry eyes.
So yeah. If any genuine researchers are reading this and looking for clues, I'd suggest reaching out to the Heritage Centre in Skidegate and seeing if you can track down an old programming schedule or recording. (Better than a phonecall though, if you can get funding for it, Haida Gwaii is a stunning place with some of the most welcoming people on the planet, and absolutely worth a trip).
It's hard for a white atheist like me to know when a story is sincere, versus when it's a yarn meant as allegory with a greater message, or if liberties were being taken with numbers and roles. But the tale was beautiful and no doubt helps contribute to the anecdotes mentioned above.
That's very interesting! Has there been any more studies and information on pacific islanders in the continental US? It's not to hard to imagine as they made it all the way to Hawaii that they could have made it to North America.
By now the answer is mostly both - and as to can we trust orally passed down stories, the short answer is that it is not a game a telephone. There have been examples of orally passed down knowledge of sea level change in Australia that went back well over 10,000 years. Various First Nations' oral histories reference animals that are believed to have gone extinct circa 10,000 years ago. So it seems very clear that stories do last a very long time. What is important to keep in mind is the information surrounding the story. Why was this story passed down? What was important about the knowledge? No culture just passes down random collections of facts, i.e. there really isn't a culture out there that orally passes down the fact that "you're gggggggggggggggrandpa was shot" because with time these things lose value. Now if it's an epic tale of revenge that illustrates core family values, then all of a sudden such a tale might be passed down, and in all likelihood after the initial shifting to fit the narrative, it will be passed on fairly unchanged.
considering that these stories are at a minimum a few thousand years old, and very likely two or even four times older than that, I think it's unlikely in this case - especially given the equal likelihood that these stories, while they do reflect beliefs about what existed beyond the Atlantic, could be more about what people expect fish-people to look like than about any actual journeys.
giant beavers the size of men and mammoths (in various Northern Athapascan groups), bears twice the size of todays bears and other animals like dogs that were the same size (Nuxalk), large predatory birds that could kill people, that lived on the tops of cliffs (I think Ailornic incredibilis based on the descriptions) - numerous other groups have various stories of mammoths or similar.
While our current extant fossil record would suggest most of these creatures went extinct around 10,000 years ago, I think that in at least a few of the cases there must have been surviving pockets much longer - for example in the case of the bird, the story that describes them puts them in the origin story of a community that was not older than 6000 years (based on sea change), and involves bows instead of throwing spears, which would place the story even later (though that seems like a detail that might easily change, even though other stories do have throwing spears).
I think there's an element of this for sure, especially in cases like all the "bigfoot was gigantopithecus", however since in all of these cases we know that there are persistent communities in the area that have existed in situ since the time that these animals are believed to have been alive, and these stories are set in those times, that to think that an animal that did exist might be present in a story from that time period is not that far fetched. since then of course we imagine what it looked like, but that's different from imagining its existence. We don't have stories of giant cats, or giant raccoons, it seems to be limitted to those animals that existed (speaking locally).
It boggles my mind how good oral histories are in cultures with a tradition of it. I know of the Australian stories, but what are the animals referenced in Native American stories?
Not as much - probably as a function of every lineage having its own stories, so a lot of different origins have been passed down. Do the stories stay the same across linguistic familiesŁ.