In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I know Russia interfered in the 2016 election and I know that Trump has been doing business with Russian oligarchs that he was investigated for $ laundering for them. I know the Trump campaign was communicating with Russian operatives during the election, if you wish to believe this comm was only business or adoptions that’s your prerogative.
The republicans should have never nominated a person like Trump, the republican senators should have ejected trump in impeachment number 1, the DOJ should have indicted trump based on the obstruction Mueller proved in his report, the current president shouldn’t be so worried about looking political, it is by definition, the American people should not be so poorly represented at such a high cost. Our federal government regardless of party has been corrupted by big $ and the American people continue to pay the bill while working two jobs and unable to afford health care.
The disinformation machine is hard to overcome. It should be obvious that if you care about humans and their well being, then who I vote for is obvious to me. republicans are fucking me and us over by giving tax cuts to the rich so the country is always broke. and were told this country is just too broke we cant possibly keep feeding the schoolchildren and we cant possibly keep social security and medicare and medicaid. Republicans are proposing to cut social security, some suggesting that they decide if they should renew it every year or every 5 years, which is not how you run a long term social safety program. And if old Republicans relying on social security or just about to need it because they didn't save enough for retirement STILL vote for those guys. I mean, either their just totally ignorant or they think it's a joke and are just really dense as to what those cuts would mean. It would mean a whole bunch of poor and middle class people don't get to retire. They will never have enough money to scrap by without a job, who's ok with that? I'm not.
Indeed. Too many years of outrage porn from Limbaugh and Carlson and the like have brought people to both view politics as entertainment and also just not think too hard about the source. Too many people voted for Trump because "he's just so entertaining" with his self aggrandizing bloviation and listening to his vague platitudes and outrageous demagoguery without actually considering if he really meant it. Or at most, had a plan for it.
And for me it always comes back to money in politics. Capitalists have had the working people of this country by the throat back 150 years, with some brief shift in power in the early 1900s. We need another shift to get money out of politics for good, until then we will be on a cliff looking down at the decent into fascism.
You got these ding nuts believing some vast pedophilia adrenochrome conspiracies, meanwhile the corporate boards are buying the politicians and using red meat wedge issues to fuck us all over. It's an obvious conspiracy its just that they openly bribe politicians while pretending they didn't just openly bribe that politician.
Absolutely correct, but once big $ takes hold it’s like a cancer, hard to remove, but if enough of us can see it we can reject it in every way possible, starting by voting against self republican elitist! Vote America.
Your maga term woke or Russia gate mean zippo to me. I know what I see and hear and use God given discernment to determine what I believe while always trying to look at being open minded understanding and tolerant. Are you saying Russians didn’t interfere and didn’t support trump?
Mueller wasn’t in a court of law to prove anything, but his report clearly stated in 10 different instances where trump obstructed justice or did you miss that part?
Lol yea I’m certain Charles Manson truly believed he was fighting the demons of capitalism too but that didn’t make him innocent. The world excluding a small far right fascist cult, knows trump is a likely criminal and seditious obstructionist.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Lol no I wouldn’t agree. Those people made their protest within rules guidelines and precedent of the law, Trump and his cronies broke the law because they couldn’t conduct themselves with the same level of basic respect for the law that those dems you mentioned did.