Then 85mph it is. But also where are you, because in some places that's a crime, and you'd end up with a criminal record. And if there's no difference in penalty between the two speeds it doesn't matter and it's a useful argument. What statute were you cited under?
You were going 30 over. That’s a LOT. If you don’t think it’s a lot, time to re-think your attitude.
Its just a really fat fine. 100 over is where you really get screwed to my knowledge. I can plead guilty and still contest that I was not going as fast as indicated, just trying to figure out whether its even worth trying to do that or if I should just ask for a reduction. $500 fine is way too steep especially when I wasn't going 85.
Your best bet is to get a traffic attorney and let them handle it. It’s not the ticket that’s the issue as much as the bump in your insurance premiums which is going to be WAY more than $500 until the ticket falls off your record.
With a calibration record and officer training certificate, it is much more likely you’re mistaken (or lying) about gear than that the radar result is unreliable.
If this is a first offense they might be able to negotiate it dow —defensive driving school and the like.
It doesn’t sound like you have a compelling argument as to why you’re right and the officer’s radar is wrong, no. Nor does the nature and context of your argument play sympathetically.
Radar waves bounce and can get wrong reads if calibrated wrong. And even if calibrated right being next to a large semi and just passing a couple vehicles that were parallel to each other can cause radars to read higher speeds than actual. The cop car was also moving in cross traffic too. I understand they can still get relatively accurate reads despite moving but all these factors can help my testimony as to me speeding but not as fast as stated by officer. Although I said its possible for me to be at 75 coming out of 2nd gear I literally slowed once I hit 3rd gear. Actual speed is around 70. Not even the officer was certain my speed was 85 he mentioned it being "around" that and proceeded to write 85 on my ticket.
Without a calibration record and training certificate, it is still much more likely you’re mistaken (or lying) but then you’ve got a shot.
Passing a vehicle by planting it in 2nd gear while there's no one in front is reckless endangerment. Got it... You act like I drive a RWD car on slicks swerving and cutting through all lanes which I don't. Not to mention he caught me coming from the right side of a semi. He was on my left AND in cross (opposite) traffic. I'm sure I have good reason to doubt the accuracy of the radar in that case. I understand that moving radar is as accurate as stationary however its not infallible when it comes to multiple targets especially big ones like a semi being one of them.