My coworker was helping him at our register, and had the incorrect items added to his list. He began the process of taking a card payment but canceled it to fix his mistake, an exchange happened and he didn’t fix his mistake. The customer (who has not paid) is getting upset with him because of the mistakes. My coworker gave him a refund (for the order that he didn’t pay for). I was in the back for the refund potion and Was unaware of it until later. This is where I as the supervisor step in. The customer is aggravated and for good reason at this point, I glance at the screen and at the tickets that print after canceling an order and knew what was wrong right away. I went to fix this on the order and began explaining what had happened to the customer. Out of frustration or confusion he began to yell at me, I again tried to explain that I knew what was wrong, and I had fixed the issue, he just needed to pay and we were all good. He continued to shout at me (thinking he had paid) so I turned my screen towards him to show him the current balance due and walk him through the order of what my coworker had done and what I had done. Half the time he interrupted me and yelled at me rather than listen. He told me he was going to call the cops “to fix my attitude”. Keep in mind to this point I still didn’t know about my coworkers refund, and had yet to get authoritative with him. I decided that it was best he leave and we not continue the transaction since he was unwilling to listen and cooperate with me. I told him it was time for him to leave and at this point he showed me the money my coworker had given him and shouted “then what about this refund huh?” I once again referenced the computer and showed him that no money was taken, I pointed to the ticket that also showed balance due on it, not the paid total. I told him his options are to return the money and listen while I fully explain what happened without interruption, we make his pizza, or return the money and leave. He interrupted me and said “well what about this refund” id quickly like to clarify that I never got a full sentence out without him shouting over me about him already paying or how rude I am to not just make his pizzas. He once again exclaimed he will call the cops if I don’t make his pizza, so I decided since he will not listen to me, nothing will make him except a mediator, so I called the cops myself. Police arrive and I explain the officer the situation, show him no money was taken, and explain the options I gave the man. That’s the last time I interact with the officer until the end of the entire situation. The man now goes through 3 phases over 15-20 minutes. First he plays dumb and says things like “I don’t know if this is mine” “they never told me if I was charged” and generally making thins up. He turned into a street lawyer and said “I have it on good faith this money is in fact not theirs but within a shread of doubt to whom it belongs” the officer just told him to give me the money back. Then his final form comes out and he starts shouting at the officer about how disrespectful I am and how disrespectful he is and how the officer is choosing sides. The officer finally says he’s either going to give me the money or he’s getting a citation. He threw the money all over the store and they storm out in a huff with the officer in close pursuit. At this point I can’t hear but I believe the officer gave him a fine. As the officer was leaving he once again tried to enter the store (from which he was just banned) and shouted “I’m gonna sue you until your homeless kid”. The officer quickly removed him and they chatted for 5-10 minutes by the officers car until they both left.
We have no idea why you removed him, but it would be highly unlikely that it was illegal to do so. As a general rule you are free to refuse to do business with whoever you want and can kick whoever you want out of a store. Practically people who are pissed off like to yell about lawsuits, but never follow through. On the off chance you are later sued retain counsel and defend the lawsuit.