I would say it's complete lack of interest from the audience. When people talk about Middle Ages, they usually think about knights participating in crusades, maybe they will think about the Hundred Years War, ma-a-aybe they will think about landsknechts, but they will virtually never think about medieval Poland or Hungary. It just so happened that great amount of literature from the West had been focusing primarily on West, including Shakespeare and many other authors. Since West is generally more wealthy than the East (why this happened is not important in our context) and more eager to produce media surrounding their history, it's much more prevalent in the info field. Majority of books are written on western European castles, armour and weapon types, military and governing systems, and it comes full circle when people only want to know more about them, thus increasing demand for new literature and movies on this topic and continuing to ignore the outskirts. Scientific literature on Russian, Hungarian and Polish medieval societies are relatively uncommon and rarely translated (Roman Khrapachevsky's superb work on Mongol Empire's conquest of Russia \[1\] has yet to be translated, and some Russian works only go as far west as Poland \[2\]).
Even when we consider looking at the "Western" Europe, it's important to understand that majority of this part of the continent also tends to be overlooked. Media content regarding this period mainly comes from the Anglosphere since Hollywood has both the money and the enthusiasm to film huge, engaging movies with big battles and or sprawling Medieval city set pieces, and Hollywood (and other companies) is generally interested in showing history adjusted to the Anglosphere market. If you take a look at it closer, there are a lot of movies describing either English or "general" history people are accustomed with - Middle Eastern crusades (Kingdom of Heaven, Arn, Knightfall, although Arn is Swedish), Hundred Years War (too many to list), War of the Roses (The White Queen, The Hollow Crown), wars of England with Scotland (Braveheart), "fantasy" stories happening in Middle Ages (endless iterations of Robin Hood, the Black Death). The only movies and series I know that focus on, say, Italy or Italian characters are Medichi, Marco Polo and Flesh+Blood, and I doubt that their overall quantity is bigger than topics I mentioned above (just in case, I don't say it's bad or that people should drop their Western European books and movies and go watch something else, it's just how things are).
Eastern Europe is usually quite distinct in terms of societal norms, technologies, warfare and , they also didn't have much involvements in "big" European wars, such as Hundred Years War, Italian Wars, Reconquista, etc, preferring to deal with their neighbours. They also often possessed less developed technology and population that didn't allow them to play big roles in comparison to France, for example. Usually nobody is interested in, say, filming history of these countries and, let's face it, Eastern European cinema is often poor quality in comparison to the West. Russia is especially notorious for that: both "Alexander, battle of Neva" (2008) and "Viking" (2018) were pretty big movies with relatively (for Russia) big budgets, but they were completely shred to pieces by critics, so nobody expects anything of quiality on the subject anymore.
Do you have an opinion on this topic regarding the influence of the 20th century political situation on popular history? As in Hollywood always portraying the communist countries as evil and poor, a lack of modern movies, books and games from the communist block entering the western market etc.? Maybe this is a question for a new post but ill place it there in case this is not allowed.
So, in short, I'd say it's lack of interest on the subject. Not that it's too bad, it's just how things are.
This doesn't end with movies and books too, since videogames have as much prevalence as these too mediums (possibly even combined). When was the last time you played as Eastern European character in non-typical western medieval setting? Kingdom Come: Deliverance (2018) happens in relatively eastern lands, but Bohemia is still largely Western-influenced. Mount&Blade series has Eastern European-inspied factions despite being fantasy. There also was Medieval II Total War expansion focusing on wars of Teutonic Order in north-east. Ancestors' Legacy has Slavic factions. Otherwise people usually play as or want to look at western soldiers in full plate mail, maybe with some additions of Middle East (Assassin's Creed as by far the most popular example).
Majority of the Westerna Anglophone audience (again, I don't blame them) who have even slight interest in history will probably know something about medieval England and Spain, they definitely heard about the Crusades (all the Jerusalem memes), probably they are aware that landsknechts existed or that Holy Roman Empire was actually a conglomerate of different factions and counties. But their knowledge of medieval Russia starts and ends around Mongolian Invasion (thanks to multiple Youtube pop history channels that've been talking about the subject lately), after that Russians disappear from the radar until they suddenly reemerge as a huge empire in 18th century. Their knowledge of medieval Hungary doesn't even start, and medieval Poland usually begins only when the winged hussars arrive (because Sabaton who popularize history in their songs). Literally the most well known events of Eastern history are crusades (that don't even touch Eastern Europe and deal with Arabs) and the fall of Constantinople. Everyone in Anglosphere heard about battle of Agincourt (1415), but much fewer people know about battle of . Everyone is familiar with the crusades aimed at the Holy Land, but northern crusades (and crusaders' wars with Lithuania, Poland and Novgorod Republic) are much less prevalent, I know several people who were geniunely surprised these things happened. Everybody heard about long history of French-English conflicts, but I doubt that even one out of a hundred can name at least three battles or sieges of Russian-Lithuanian confrontation which spanned centuries. Ottoman Empire, despite being huge political power with possessions and wars in Europe is often overlooked.
I'd hesitate to call this influence decisive, but maybe yes, you can say that political tensions may affect this in some manner. USSR's movies often portraying Western powers as jealous or treacherous didn't help though. The problem with topic becoming more popular is that it needs huge media coverage, so that everyone would recognize it (think Japanese Samurai), I don't know of any Eastern European "brands" aside from maybe Polish Hussars or Cossacks, but the former are not very famous and the latter are usually portrayed as caricatures.