I'm sorry you are facing whatever difficulties you are facing, but unfortunately this post is very hard to understand. Best I can make out here is that you had filed a discrimination case in federal court as a pro se litigant. You had some discovery issues involved and some disputes about mediation. Ultimately the case was dismissed on a motion for summary judgment?
The fact that a judge may know the attorney for the other side is not a basis to disqualify the judge. Nor is the fact that the judge didn't like the way you presented your case. Unfortunately the court system, particularly the federal court system is no an accessible process for most individuals who are not represented by an attorney. I suspect that what has happened here was largely standard, but that as a pro-se litigant you didn't understand what was happening and due to some unfortunate circumstances you also ended up not being fully informed of what was happening. There may be grounds for an appeal here, but you will almost certainly need an attorney to make that happen. As a final note, you cannot just change venue from the 5th to the 3rd circuit. First it sounds like at the moment you are at a district court, not a circuit court level, so you might need to first file a motion to set aside judgment or for reconsideration. But even if you are at the circuit court level, you cannot just change circuits, the process for where a case goes is largely set in stone once it is filed. While venue can be changed at the district court level in some limited circumstances, the fact that you didn't like the judge and want to appeal in a circuit that is more favorable to you is not a basis to do so.
You really need to see if you can meet with an attorney. I realize that this is probably a hard thing to make happen, but as a pro-se litigant I don't see you having much success unless you do.
I appreciate your reply ... some things are lost because lenh and complexity ... I agree with you 100% ... I need a Lawyer ... I was clear with the Judge on that -.
Summary Judgement has not been addressed- there’s was a motion Hearing Jan 25 that has been rescheduled for Late August. - motion is in Docket.
It goes on and on... 20pages ... I never mention on any judgment, just the outside influence of the CM and still audited factors of the appearance of bias ... in good faith.
I never complained on merit of any order, or expressed my displeasure on having being called out on assumed perversions archived in public court proceedings as an Order ... I waited and held my tongue, eg. The Subpoena compromise was a Ruse - United was no to go prior of Feb 2017 ... the judge agreed . The was no contempt held by court when I showed United violated orders, The Defendant gathered everything ... or when I pointed out disclosures were not provided or false ...
I have to be honest, I'm even more confused after reading this reply, but I'll try to respond as best as I can.
That's a good sign in general. You should file an opposition to the motion with citation to case law about why the motion should be denied. This is one reason that having an attorney is essential.
Judicial notice is a legal term of art to describe a circumstance where a fact, generally not one directly related to the case, is accepted by the court without having to prove it. For example, if I had a case where the fact that the earth orbits the sun was somehow a necessary part of my proof, I could ask the court to take judicial notice of that fact. I wouldn't file a motion for that (I suppose I could, but I wouldn't) rather if there was any debate about it during the trial I would ask the court to take judicial notice.
Why did you need leave to amend your complaint? Had you already done so once? When did you ask for leave to amend?
I have read this 3 times now and I am sorry, but I have absolutely no idea what you are trying to say here. This simply doesn't make any sense.
I've seen nothing to suggest that the attorney or the judge be removed from this case. Also, filing a FOIA request for video tape is not how you go about getting a transcript of the proceedings. Nor is blindly faxing something to a fax number.
The attorney can only offer you what his client has authorized to offer you. Even when you're appealing for benefits, the government agency and more particularly the officers of that agency are the attorney's client. Because you're pro se, the agency probably made the decision to offer you a nominal sum thinking you aren't going to be able to effectively represent yourself. Even if you have a meritorious case, it doesn't mean you have the knowledge to be able to effectively convey that to the court and follow the court's procedure to the point your case doesn't get dismissed. If the attorney was only authorized to go in there with 10,000 on the table, it doesn't matter what anyone else wants done to the case, including the judge.
Amending a complaint the first time is generally done as a matter of right, thereafter you need to get leave, but its normally liberally granted where it can be shown that amending is in the interest of actually getting a ruling on the merits of a case. Again, an attorney would be critical here.
You should get an attorney. You're way out of your league to hope you're going to be successful in this without one.
.... yes... Note I held my tongue .. until she granted to go off record... I never mentioned that as a recusal ... & I didn’t touch upon transcripts here .... but it is a factor I addressed as audio would reveal or confirm on “Appearance” ... Surveillance by USMS does fall outside the court.
& FOIA is the only way besides by order of judge... if it shows the Attorney leaving the judge’s Chamber... nothing but an inconvenience to have a new Judge precede... yet because it has all been a sham, I was forced to live poverty, lose my home, a sense of safety, quality of life, Options, my friends... my family ... have you ever gone hungry, while smelling the of 4th July barbecue ... or gotten so cold you start screaming uncontrollably!?
You keep saying get an Attorney as if you didn’t know your fellow guild members... how the poor and homeless are treated ... I was denied counsel cause the budget is solely for Criminals ... I spent months barely able to walk.