Feel free to share political cartoons in this thread. Besides our usual civility policy, there are three rules to follow:
Eh...just in case we are headed for another civil war, I'd prefer it if both sides weren't flying similar flags. They learned that the hard way at Bull Run.
I know, it's awful! As a nerdy kid obsessed with American history I actually had a patch with that flag sewed to my backpack, not for any political reasons, it was just a souvenir from the Lexinon and Concord battlefield museum. Broke my heart when the Tea Party ruined it.
Any Clay Jones cartoon featuring Trump always has a second joke written on the sippy cup (or maybe a third - the always-present sippy cup is the second).
Especially after the interview with the father of the club Q shooter. When he heard his son went to a gay bar he freaked out. And then he was relieived to hear he was only there to commit a mass shooting and went on a rant about how he raised his son to use violence to get results and that they were Mormons so they don't do the gay stuff etc.
Would the shooter have lead a better life without that upbringing? I don't know. But it sure as hell didn't help....
> It’s no wonder people clamored for a different system of money. Unfortunately Bitcoin is not it. It might be rare due to its fixed circulation, but it’s not fungible. One can’t instantly pay for a variety of goods with Bitcoin. It’s still tied to the debt dollar and it must be ‘cashed out’ first. In fact, all cryptos remain tied to the dollar. When you hear, ‘What’s XYZ coin worth today,” you know they mean what it’s worth in debt dollars. Of course, gold and silver face this same problem. It’s difficult to pay for anything with gold and silver coins without ‘cashing them in’ first. Still, gold and silver are precious metals that people can hold in their hands or store in their sock drawer. You can’t store crypto in a safe; it must exist on an ‘exchange,’ or kept in a digital ‘wallet.’ In other words, they exist as ideas and electrons stored who-knows-where and hacked by who-knows-who. If the electricity goes off, you won’t have access to your so-called crypto ‘money,’ but your gold and silver will always be there.