The thing is that you're looking at things by the numbers, and sometimes that doesn't really work. I asked a related question about , ably answered by u/MaharajadhirajaSawai; no doubt they have more thoughts on this specifically, but for now, that most excellent treatise should get you most of the way to an answer, OP.
And as ever, should anyone else knowledgeable of India have more to contribute, please don't let this post stop you!
Thank you for dropping this link and for the compliments! Apart from the answer in the thread you've linked, another user asked a question close to the OP's question in this thread you've linked that I think can be helpful.
I'd like if he explained exactly WHY the Marathas' cavalry, comprising over half their forces, was so useless compared to the British infantry that they could be "swept aside like dust" without their own European-style infantry support. And maybe cite specific battles that starkly demonstrated the superiority of line infantry armies to melee cavalry-dependent ones.
So let's us first look at what Maratha cavalry in the period was. As explained in the previous answer, these were mostly mercenaries. Pindaris and Shiladars. Men who hired out their services to the highest bidders and rarely owed any loyalty to their employer beyond that. So, you have mercenary horsemen such as the Pindaris, who required the state to provide horses or the Shiladars who provided their own horses and equipment, when they were employed, and whose skill relied on acquired experience and whose motivation to fight in battles was mainly monetary. Such forces, even though organised in masses, thought as individuals, and therein lies one of their greatest weaknesses. They were mounted mainly on tattoos or horses bred in India, smaller than the Turkoman or Iranian breeds and certainly smaller than the warhorses of Europe. They were armed with melee weapons and their purpose in battle was to secure the space cleared by infantry, serve as reconnaissance and screening forces and chase the enemy once they routed. A charge made by such forces was disorganised, lacking cohesion between ranks and files and relying on the appearance of a swarm to intimidate the enemy, to surround them and break morale of enemy infantry so that the cavalry which itself was disorganised and relied on individual prowess do win the day, would be faced by a force where the infantry broke ranks and in it's panic lacked cohesion, so that they would fight as individuals too. Such a battle, they could win, since men mounted on horses will almost always win against men on foot.
Now, compare this to the Regular British Cavalry of the period raised at the Bengal and Madras Presidencies and organised into light cavalry and lancers. Men on regular payroll, mounted to steeds maintained by the "state", drilled and trained every day into being able to perform the tasks required at specific times and when given the command to do so. When organised in squadron, they would think as a a mass. Each individual trooper's morale was buoyed by the man next to him and behind him. When approaching an enemy, in order to charge through them, the mass began to move in steps, such measures were meant to preserve the organisation and discipline of the mass until the final command of "charge" was given to the soldiers, therefore, instead of presenting the enemy before them with a swarm of disorganised individual horsemen whose charges lacked any shock due to the mentality of the horsemen and the quality of the horses, the enemy facing Regular British cavalry be it native or European would be faced with a wall of men on horses, charging at full gallop, mounted on quality steeds possessing a shock value far greater than the Maratha charge.
Before going any further as to why such charges of a Maratha cavalry, didn't work against well drilled and motivated professional infantry and why that of a Regular Cavalry like the Bengal Cavalry did work, some concepts need to be cleared up.
The effectiveness of cavalry throughout history, can be understood first and foremost by looking at the dynamics of what a foot soldier would face, on a battlefield of the ancient, medieval or modern period, when confronted or engaged by cavalry.
While infantry standing in masses, well organised or not, could still be intimidating, this asset of a mass formation, is highly dependent on how well organised, motivated and disciplined this mass is. An infantry formation, where morale does not fall and where the individual soldiers think as a mass, could certainly stop a cavalry charge in its tracks, though not always. However, let's take a look at what this mass of humans is facing.
Imagine hundreds of horsemen, men armed with sabres or lances and in later centuries muskets or rifles with bayonets, each mounted on a war horse which would weigh roughly 400-500 kilograms let's say. These beasts would move at speeds between 30-40 km/h. After the invention of saddles and stirrups, the horseman would have the stability to thrust his weapons against infantry with more confidence. The resulting impact would be enough to throw a grown man off their feet if the horsemen were using a blunt instrument and to skewer him if the horseman was using a lance.
More generally, any books or articles that compare contemporary Maratha and British armies on a tactical level?
Therefore, an organised body of infantry where the individual soldiers think as a mass (such as the European and Sepoy infantry formations of the English East India Company) , could hold off cavalry charges though not always, yet, once that formation of infantry begins thinking as individuals, it loses it's morale, it's strenh to resist. It's no longer a single bodied mass, it's rather individual soldiers, facing a mass of cavalry, and the momentum and force that is approaching them will win every single engagement they enter into. However, in order to break the morale of a well organised, professional force of infantry, the cavalry needs to function as a mass as well. The cavalry must be able to intimidate the infantry before them, of it is to break them in a frontal charge. The other option is to flank and attack at the rear. It was to avoid this that infantry were organised into pike formations or hollow squares of musket infantry with bayonets facing each side in later centuries to avoid the cavalry from charging at "vulnerable sides". Yet, even here, cavalry of high morale, organisation and discipline did indeed break through squares and pike blocks, but keep in mind, in order to do so, discipline, organisation and morale were a prerequisite. Something which Maratha cavalry lacked.
"Persian Records of Maratha History Vol II - Scindia as Regent of Delhi 1787 & 1789-91" by Sir Jadunath Sarkar.
"Poona Residency Correspondence Vol I : Mahadji Sindhia and NorthIndian Affairs, 1785-1794" Edited by Sir Jadunath Sarkar.
"Poona Residency Correspondence Vol VIII Daulat Rao Scindia and North Indian Affairs 1794-1799" Edited by Sir Jadunath Sarkar.
"Poona Residency Correspondence Vol IX Daulat Rao Scindia and North Indian Affairs 1800-1803" by Maharaj Kumar Maj. Raghubir Sinh.
"The Anglo-Maratha Campaigns and the Contest for India: The Struggle for Control of the South Asian Military Economy" by Randolf G. S. Cooper.
"The Dispatches of Field Marshal the Duke of Wellinon: During His Various Campaigns in India, Denmark, Portugal, Spain, the Low Countries, and France" by Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellinon.
"Rethinking the Origins of British India: State Formation and Military-fiscal Undertakings in an Eighteenth Century World Region" by TIRTHANKAR ROY, Modern Asian Studies, Vol. 47, No. 4 (JULY 2013), pp. 1125-1156 (32 pages) Published By: Cambridge University Press.
"THE EMPIRE AND GUNPOWDER WEAPONS" by Moumita Chowdhury, Proceedings of the Indian History Congress, Vol. 78 (2017), pp. 480-487 (8 pages).
Pemble, John. "Resources and Techniques in the Second Maratha War." The Historical Journal 19, no. 2 (1976): 375-404. Accessed July 19, 2021.
The campaign had begun in 1790, and the two armies came face to face on 21st of June. Until about sunset, neither side committed its forces in the fighting, exchanging cannon fire and skirmishing with their troopers. By dusk, the Rajputs retreated to their camps, while the Marathas maintained their positions. This was when the realm fighting began, owing to unforeseen events. According to Jadunath Sarkar : 3 hours before sunset, some Maratha Pindaris from the left wing of Maratha lines, managed to seize animals that were a part of Ismail Beg's contingent. This inevitably led to a small skirmish with Ismail Beg's men. General de Boigne then directed his guns on Ismail Beg's contingent. Caught on unaware, the murderous fire of Maratha guns proved to be deadly. Gopal Bhau and de Boigne, sensing victory, went for the kill. Marathas descended upon enemy camps. Taken aback by the suddenness and the ferocity of the Maratha attack, Rajput resistance capitulated, many were slaughtered in their sleep while others were too intoxicated to fight. The only event worth noting was the Rathor charge on the Maratha right wing. The 4,000 strong Holkar contingent was saved by swift reinforcements sent by Gopal Bhau. The Jaipur Nagas were forced in their positions by the two battalions sent by Boigne. De Boigne after routing the centre and left wing of the alliance, turned all of his forces to the right. The Rathors were soon surrounded and routed, resulting in heavy losses and the death of the Jodhpur general Gangaram. As a result of this action, Ismail Beg's forces were completely destroyed around 15,000, and the total losses in the Rajput side was roughly 20,000, including 3,000 Rathores.
So I did quote two examples of how European style, well-drilled infantry formations could make quick work of contemporary cavalry in India, even one of such high repute as Rajput cavalry.