Short answer: In history, Jiang Wei was well regarded by Zhuge Liang and ended up in his councils but not to any particularly special degree, no more than any other of Zhuge Liang's trusted or valued officers. The idea of being Zhuge Liang's protege is from the novel romance of the three kingdoms which had a major impact in how such figures became viewed.
In 228, Wei was caught completely off guard by Zhuge Liang's first campaign against them, they had Xiahou Mao at Changan who was a friend and relative of Emperor Cao Rui but noted for not being militarily capable while experienced generals like Cao Zhen had been pulled to other fronts. Defences had been neglected as, with Liu Bei dead, Wei didn't believe Shu had anyone with the drive to attack.
Some of the frontier regions revolted, Tianshui, Nanan and Anding revolted to join the attacking army, Ma Zun the head of Tianshui was on a tour of inspection in the area with local officers like Jiang Wei with him. Ma Zun fled when it became clear the locals were rebelling, Jiang Wei surrendered to Shu either on local wishes or because he had been shut out by local towns.
An inexperienced Zhuge Liang lost the campaign with both the armies he sent out against Wei forces losing while Zhuge Liang was too far away to reinforce. The choice of his friend and protege Ma Su leading key army of Jieting instead of more experienced figures like Wei Yan, Ma Su then disobeyed orders on where to camp, got surrounded and supplies cut off by Zhang He before taking heavy losses. Generals were demoted or executed and Zhuge Liang, with not all the court behind him, demoted himself.
In such circumstances, the defection of a local note able was to be celebrated, ranks given to encourage further defections and attempts to highlight a rare boon of a disastrous campaign. However, while giving a marquis would be part of that, Zhuge Liang was impressed after meeting with Jiang Wei, writing to Zhang Yi (who was managing affairs at capital Chengdu) and Zhang Yi's assistant Jiang Wan.
While, due to needing to highlight what positives he could from that campaign there may have an element of selling this recruit as hard as possible, Zhuge Liang's plans for Jiang Wei were true. Jiang Wei got that audience for which he was promoted further, then Jiang Wei trained troops at the capital. The teachings aren't mentioned again and Jiang Wei was never linked as a student of Zhuge Liang (more seen as a student of the Zheng Xuan tradition) bar that letter.
We don't get much of Jiang Wei's till Zhuge Liang's final fatal campaign. Jiang Wei gets promoted twice, one would assume this was for good work and not being drawn out of a hat but Shu's records are poor. There was a records department but no history project to the equivalent of Wei and Wu with scholars like Qiao Zhou attached to education, there are a lot of gaps. Liu Shan's first Empress has a whole one paragraph, the famed general.
In 234, Zhuge Liang launched a joint campaign with Wu and Jiang Wei was part of his circle during it. With the Wei commander Sima Yi sitting back his defences at Wuzhang and Shu seeking a fight, Zhuge Liang sent a woman's dress among efforts to provoke a fight, the Emperor Cao Rui sent long-serving adviser Xin Pi with an order to hold the position with Jiang Wei remarking Xin Pi's arrival means they would not come out to fight.
Zhuge Liang became mortally ill during the campaign and Jiang Wei was part of his circle to be given instructions as to how to carry out the retreat after Zhuge Liang's death. Jiang Wei was to be the second rearguard (or main one if Wei Yan elected to do his own thing) and when Sima Yi pursued on hearing Zhuge Liang was dead, Jiang Wei got the commander of the retreating army Yang Yi to turn about and draw up the army as if to fight which caused Sima Yi to halt. While some figures in the Shu army like Yang Yi and Wei Yan hoped to take command, Zhuge Liang had written to Liu Shan before (and confirmed in his comments to envoy Li Fu at Wuzhang) "If I your servant suffer misfortune, later affairs should be entrusted to Wǎn".
Jiang Wei had become a member of Zhuge Liang's council, someone who was part of the inner circle and trusted to act as the rearguard. We get his promotions and his role in final campaign but bar those two letters from Zhuge Liang from early on (and those were more about this new talent he had found), we don't get any sense of their relations on a personal level. Jiang Wei was one of Zhuge Liang's men but Zhuge Liang had brought through and promoted a lot of figures like protecting Jiang Wan from Liu Bei's anger, there were plenty of senior figures (like Yang Yi and Wei Yan) in the army who Zhuge Liang also valued. In that regard, Jiang Wei was not an exceptional figure in that nor was there any expectation he would take over, his relationship with Zhuge Liang was not held as something really worth highlighting.
Jiang Wei was well established among the army and at court, he would get an army under Jiang Wan to carry out one plan and under Fei Yi, would share the work of the Secretariat and became Fei Yi's (deliberately restricted) commander with some raids on Wei. Only when the defector Guo Xun assassinated Fei Yi in 253 to end the era of the four heroes (Zhuge Liang, Jiang Wan, Fei Yi and Dong Yun) did Jiang Wei become the military leader of Shu and the chief figure at court with the civil offical Chen Zhi beneath him and an understanding (along with the eunuch Huang Hao) formed between the two.
Michael Farmer in his work The Talent of Shu: Qiao Zhou and the Intellectual World of Early Medieval Sichuan does comment about how Jiang Wei may have been shaped by Zhuge Liang years later. Jiang Wei's desire for reputation and fame was considered one of the driving forces of his actions when he became Shu's chief general and led to some criticism from ancient historians. Farmer suggests this drive was because Jiang Wei was haunted by the popularity and reputation of the worshipped Zhuge Liang and wished to build his own reputation, to get out from under Zhuge Liang's shadow.
Jiang Wei leads the resistance against the invading armies as Ma Zun's adviser and after defeating Zhao Yun in a duel, Zhuge is amazed. Jiang Wei ambushes the Shu army so Zhuge Liang lures Jiang Wei away from Tianshui, lies to the captured Xiahou Mao and releases the Wei commander then uses body double of Jiang Wei to pretend to actually betray, so Wei forces became convinced Jiang Wei is a traitor. Jiang Wei is shot at by his own side and in a state of distress, along, he is found by Shu forces.
Jiang Wei then helps Zhuge Liang by using his knowledge of the area and is often by Zhuge Liang's side in campaigns, constantly used in battles. He fake defects to lure Wei commander Cao Zhen into an ambush (only gets Fei Yao), he is one that carries out the prayer to try to extend Zhuge Liang's life (then wants to kill Wei Yan when Wei Yan stumbling entrance wrecks it). As Zhuge Liang lays dying, he makes clear who is the only man who can understand his great plans.
He also tells Li Fu that Jiang Wei has the plans to carry out after his death and is given charge of the rearguard but puts Jiang Wan and Fei Yi as his successors as Prime Ministers. Jiang Wei plays a key role in driving off Sima Yi's pursuit and in the defeat of the rebelling Wei Yan and Liu Shan does make Jiang Wei Commander in Chief with Jiang Wan becoming chief civil officer as Prime Minister.
It is Jiang Wei that decides if the defecting Xiahou Ba (a kinsman of the Cao rulers) would be allowed to stay following internal chaos in Wei, he is able to go above Fei Yi's head to launch a campaign before Fei Yi vanishes and Jiang Wei becomes the sole authority.
The novel keeps up the Jiang Wei follows on from Zhuge Liang with a reminder now and again, Jiang Wei telling Zhang Yi (a different one) why he wants to go on another campaign over Zhang Yi's objections includes " But he bequeathed to me the legacy of his intention, and I must be a loyal and worthy executor. If I die in the attempt, I will perish without regret. Now is our opportunity, and if we miss it, shall we find a better?".
The novel rushes through the post-Zhuge Liang era. Zhuge Liang's 5 NC's between 228-234 take up chapters 91-104. 13 chapters for six years. The decades till Shu's fall takes up 105 to 119. 14 chapters for decades. Wu's last decade gets a chapter. So the era of stability and good governance is really pushed past (bar what it needs to give the sense of the changes in Wei and Wu) and onto Jiang Wei becoming Shu's chief officer then driving the kingdom into the ground for his own fame desires heroically battling against the odds, being let down by others and his own lesser failings.
Deng Ai remarks after a failed ploy " "Jiang Wei has indeed learned of Zhuge Liang, his soldiers stood the night attack without flinching, and the leaders took the chances of battle quite calmly. He is able." before Jiang Wei shows he has mastered all the variations of the eight gates formation Zhuge Liang created in a formation contest with Deng Ai and Sima Wang (Jiang Wei also mentions the books he got). Even his death poem mentions his being tutored by Zhuge Liang.
The novel's Jiang Wei is the only man in Shu able to take over from Zhuge Liang, the only one with the strategic brain and the character (some of his historical flaws like fame hunger are removed and the novel makes a point to have his mother go with him to Shu) to take over the plans, to take over Zhuge Liang's written works. The novel turned Jiang Wei from a divisive figure who got much flak into a flawed hero and brilliant mind, he isn't Zhuge Liang's superhuman level and he makes mistakes but he gives it everything he has and is a loyal hero of the state.
To me, this is one of those historical facts that's hard to separate from the folklore since it's partially based on truth and often taken for granted.