The doctors that I’ve seen have all recommended mental healthcare in their notes. But I’m still waiting on it to be approved. I spoke with an attorney today and he said what they’re saying isn’t exactly true. So I’m meeting with him on Friday to figure out what my options are. He said settling doesn’t seem to be in my best interest right now. I paid out of pocket for a psychiatrist appointment today because I can’t keep living like this.
Definitely talk to an attorney. Possibly your employer might agree to paying for initial treatment, but they are obviously not going to agree to funding lifetime care. If the psychiatrist recommends a certain number of appointments as the initial part of your treatment, maybe your job would agree to pay for that before you actually enter into a settlement.
Again, talk to your attorney about his experience in your jurisdiction. Having your PCP refer you to a mental health professional, in writing, often they do it on a prescription pad, may be of value to you. Your employer is not going to recommend treatment, they are not qualified to do so. Without a recommendation in regards to your treatment, you are essentially self diagnosing. Get everything in writing.
Good to know. Work did provide free counseling to everyone that was there during my accident. It was pretty fuckin gory and traumatizing. I kinda left the place looking like that scene from IT where all the blood explodes in the bathroom. After looking at the things they usually address and cover though, it didn't really seem to fit with what I'm going through right now. I needed someone that could help me right now with sleeping, anxiety, and depression symptoms. It's just been frustrating saying for four weeks now that I NEED this care and there's still nothing.
My husband and I lost our healthcare when we lost our jobs with Covid, so I don't have a PCP at the moment. He just started a new job today, however, so that'll change in about 90 days. I see my hand surgeon again in about two weeks, so I'll bring it up again and see what he can do.
I don’t think that is a dealbreaker for your situation, but it wouldn’t be a terrible thing to have. If your employer already offered counseling, they are tacitly admitting the need for therapy. Your psychiatrist should be able to put together an estimate about initial treatment on letterhead. It’s possible, if your relationship with them is good, that your employer may agree to pay for this and discuss a settlement in further treatment is needed.
I appreciate your input so much This whole process has been so confusing and frustrating on top of healing from the attack and dealing with my brain. Your info helped a lot and I’m looking forward to meeting with my attorney on Friday .