Menus and recipes from Delmonico still exist, and recipes from around that time and before are also pretty readily-available, because Delmonico's most famous chef published a cookbook. This is a reasonably easy question to answer: you would definitely enjoy the food, but yeah, it'd be pretty heavy, and look a little different.
It's probably worth being a little bit clear here. Delmonico was around for a long time, and its menus were not carved in stone. What's popularly bandied about as its first menu is not actually from Delmonico; it's from another restaurant also named Delmonico's, so when you see, say, pork chops, pork and beans, or sausages and think "this is not fancy French food," that's why.
Not precisely on point but still worth it for a time capsule into food is AJ Liebling, Between Meals: An Appetite for Paris.
I'm going to talk a little more narrowly about the second half of the 19th century. Lorenzo Delmonico steps into the restaurant in 1831 and to a significant extent, makes it what it is. In this same time period, the Delmonicos had opened up a 220 acre farm in New York to get vegetables that weren't available to them, and a couple decades in, hires Charles Ranhofer as the chef de cuisine. Charles had the decency to write a cookbook that was published in 1894: "The Epicurean" which tells us just what the food was like and how to make it. It's available here if you'd like to study it: and it's well worth the investigation.
What was the food like under Ranhofer's guidance? As you'd figure, it was pretty heavy. It is also pretty labor-intensive, and it has an asethetic that's a little foreign to a modern eater. What's kind of amazing about it is how extensive it is: there are soups, sides, fish, (meat) entrees, vegetables, cold preparations, and deserts. What else is unique about it is that there is a significant reliance on wild game (wild duck, snipe, turtle) that you wouldn't find today because of dwindling populations, and because of changes in the law that would forbid selling non-seafood wild game.
You also have to remember, as pertaining to oysters, until about the early 20th century, oysters were readily available. They were as ubiquitous as hot dog carts are nowadays, and were frequently sold in the same manner. New York was an oyster powerhouse.
The recipes work though, as you might expect. Grant Achatz is kind of a big deal - he's the chef (or I would I guess say 'restauranteur') at Alinea and Next. At Alinea, he made a recipe from Escoffier, circa 1906 Paris, on his first menu, which he described as an F-U (his words) to the culinary establishment. Why was it a middle finger? Because he was telling the world that he can do fancy modern stuff, but he can do old school too. Sort of like if a painter can bust out a copy of a Caravaggio without much effort - it's a show. And of course people loved it. In 2011, at Next (which basically 'reinvents itself' \[or so it claims\] every quarter or so), he did an entire Escoffier menu. People loved it too, because it's delicious.
Some of the recipes don't age super well. There's a lot of aspic, because jello hasn't been invented, so aspic was cool and difficult. There's a lot of cream and fat. There's a lot of consomme and other time-consuming stuff.