In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The only troubling part about this is that these sustained and continued attacks on the legitimacy of our elections are probably doing significant damage public perception of government legitimacy.
Is it just me, or is it really that Republicans are getting into positions of power and then just don't do anything? For fuck's sake, at least pretend to do the job, even if it's going through the motions.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
As far as we can tell there's no factual basis for the delay, only their feelings about it. Delaying an election without cause should be a felony. Intentionally stopping government from working without cause should be a felony. Every voter in Cochise County has been harmed, and effectively disenfranchised.
This whole nonsense is beyond exceptionally dumb. First of all they're not even claiming there were issues in Cochise County instead they're claiming there were issues in Maricopa County. Additionally, if they do not certify their results (they'll likely be forced to by a judge) all that happens is that the results from Cochise end up excluded which would only serve to increase the margin of victory for Democrats.
What's extra ironic about this is that it's usually the Republicans claiming that we should know the results on election day, otherwise it's evidence that it was rigged. I've never figured out why they think that's a logical conclusion.
If that's really the case Democrats shouldn't sue just let them get their own results thrown out, costing the GOP a seat in the house. If that actually happened this would never be an issue again.