I'll start with the second half of your question, about Socrates, culture, and Sparta. There are others around here much more qualified than myself to treat the first portion about the war proper and its causes.
First, to clarify, Greek philosophy and poetry most definitely do not stop at the end of the Peloponnesian War. Cynicism, Epicureanism, Stoicism, and other philosophical schools developed in the fourth and third centuries BC. Not only are there post-fifth century poets, but there are entire genres of poetry (e.g. New Comedy, bucolic poems, epigrams) that are either invented or began to flourish in the two centuries following the war. So poetry, philosophy, and "high" culture in general all continue to grow and change after the war, as they will through the Hellenistic period and under Roman rule.
Now, on to Socrates, who requires a bit of backstory. After Athens surrendered to Sparta, the Spartans replaced the Athenian democracy with an oligarchic regime headed by thirty wealthy Athenians. The Thirty ruled in a draconian manner, showing little compunction about executing those they perceived to be their enemies. They were not, in other words, a popular bunch, and only really had the support of other rich Athenians. Eventually, a coup led by exiled Athenians toppled the regime of the Thirty. The Thirty themselves were either killed or exiled, but most of their supporters were granted amnesty. Although the Thirty only reigned for a few months, their government traumatized the Athenians, not least because it demonstrated incontrovertibly that many of the rich would turn on the democracy, if given the chance.
So Socrates does not die because he is a pro-Spartan activist and the Athenians couldn't handle a bit of free speech. He dies because he was associated with the most violent coup in the history of the democracy, because his profession seems to be one which undermines the mechanics of the democracy, and because his namesake method looks like an attempt to mock the wisdom of the people (the demos). The idea that the demos, as a collective, was wise was a cornerstone of Athenian democracy. In the fragile post-thirty peace, a jury of Athenians thought that Socrates posed so great a threat to that cornerstone that he had to die.
What does this have to do with Socrates? Though Socrates' origins were rather humble (his father was a stonemason), he hobnobbed with some of the most powerful men in the city. Among these men was Critias, a close associate of Socrates who also happened to be one of the most bloody-minded among the Thirty. Another one of Socrates' students, Plato, was related to Critias by blood (his mother was Critias cousin). In Plato's version of Socrates' defense speech, Socrates claims that the Thirty asked him to bring a man they wanted executed to them, and that he refused to do so. Whether this in fact happened or not, the point is that Socrates had a close connection to the Thirty, and that this was a mark against him (though because of the amnesty, no one could prosecute him for anything relating to the Thirty).
Then there is the question of what Socrates spends his days doing. We think of Socrates as a philosopher, but that term was not as well defined in the early fourth century as it is today, and certainly wasn't a profession in the eyes of most. What Socrates seemed to be was a sophist, a teacher of rhetoric and oratory of the sort rich men hired to tutor their sons. Many Athenians had a deep mistrust of sophists. Because Athens was a direct democracy--in which every citizen could go to the assembly, hear speeches, and then vote on a course of action themselves--the worry was that sophists, with all of their rhetorical tricks, could make the rich into demagogues who would be able to manipulate the assembly for their own private gain. So Socrates looks like a sophist, and this is another strike against him.
Finally, the issue of Socratic dialogue. Today, we think of Socratic dialogue as an important and useful teaching device. And it is, in the right context. But if you go around asking those minding their own business "what is justice?" or, "who is truly wise?" they're typically going to flounder about and not be very cogent. And if you do this questioning with a group of students in tow, all of whom are rich young men (poor young men are off working), then it begins to look like what you are doing is not trying to find truth, but rather to embarrass members of the people in front of an audience of would-be oligarchs. On this understanding, the purpose of the Socratic method is to egg on rich young men to seize power from the people by showing them that the people are not wise. He is, as his prosecutors put it, "corrupting the youth.".
Oh wow, thanks for the enlightening reply! I have no idea where I read that the last Greek poets flourished before the fourth century BC (or I am misremembering something I've read) and I've completely forgotten about post-Aristotelian ethical philosophy.