What Russia needs to be classified as is "state sponsor of terror" where nobody in the west can do business with them. And anybody else who does business with them, is cut off from the west.
I know this is a last resort, but Russia is getting awfully close to having that hand played against them.
It Depends©. It's possible that Russian oil was always the better short term option despite being the worse long term option, and this will kick short term profit focused corporations into actually making the better long term move.
They never said "cheap lonerm options", only that Russian oil was a cheap short term option. Though cheap lonerm is usually expensive short term.
What YOU are asking for, is something you can pay nothing for right now, and have long term benefits anyway, of which there's none of that yet. Almost all long term options pay themselves off. If we completely shifted to renewables (let's assume we have the ability to do it over night?), it's estimated to currently cost $62 Trillion to completely convert energy (according to Stanford).
I can't find a yearly global price on energy, but considering it has increased 2-4% globally every year, it's only going to become more expensive to produce. From all my research, I've only found a US based site, so it's iffy, but their yearly energy consumption is $1.0 - 1.4 Trillion over the past decade (no stats for 2021 or 2022). So if we account just for the US, they would be able to payoff the immediate GLOBAL switch in around 60 years, let alone just for themselves.
So we can save a few bucks at the pump now, and pay the same, or more, later, or we can get it over with now and setup payment plans. Personally, I bought a house before I had the the total cost saved up, because I knew it was a good investment and 20 years isn't that big of a deal to pay for a place to live, but I get it. I used to rent too, until I got sick of giving someone else my own money for 0 payoff of my own.
Shouldn't be too hard with enough subsidies, since you can raise rent higher if the electricity cost is lowered.
Though I don't know if this (government subsidies to upgrade old and inefficient tech) is common in most european countries or just a few.