Also: "Why should we should we care about Ukraine it's not our problem, also here is a list of all the times in the past 75 years when you didn't help us and we're still pissed off about it so we're going to pretend that justifies not opposing Russia's invasion of Ukraine".
Majority of Ukrainian's military equipment is of Russian/Soviet origin, and they seem to be using it to great effect, just as india has done in its previous conflicts. The issue with the Russian military isn't that they don't have good equipment, it's that their tactics are terrible, combine that with bad logistics, terrible maintenance, and corruption, and you get a botched invasion.
The majority of equipment used in this war was USSR made equipment - not Russian. The majority of Russia’s tanks, for instance, are Soviet-era tanks that were supposed to have been upgraded by Russia with new reactive armor and targeting equipment specs… but it is quite apparent they’ve cut corners and pocketed budget intended for both general maintenance and the upgrade kit components.
To your point, yes, it is impressive how some of this weaponry is still “functional” after so much time has elapsed… but it’s 2022 and Russia is literally dusting off WWI surplus equipment vs HIMARS. Their artillery equipment is sufficient enough to terrorize civilian infrastructure by shooting in a generalized area, but it is woefully shoddy to hit precision targets to their NATO counterparts. A perfectly intact T-90M was captured, but we’re unlikely to receive intel on that for quite some time. Russia simply hasn’t made anything comparable to that of the West in the modern era, which is perfectly understandable given the egregious military budget of the US….
Surely we can all agree some Russian equipment is excellent… for its age. It doesn’t matter though if it hadn’t been maintained/not sold off illegally.
Yeah, the funny part about that is now they can't speak out against Russia because they're afraid Russia will cut off exports that they depend on. So while India calls itself non-aligned, it's basically attached to Russia at this point.
EUROPE IS CUTTING ENERGY IMPORTS FROM RUSSIA WHILE INDIA IS INCREASING IMPORTS. 90% of Russian oil imports are expected to be banned by the end of the year.
Nobody is blaming you for Russia invading. But your self-serving hypocrisy is on full display. What countries like India are really about is becoming crystal clear now.
It's not surprising to see Indians who tried to justify Russian's invasion in march now trying to deflect from India's stance.
Because India ended up becoming reliant upon the Soviets and then the Russians for its defence equipment after that war, while the west poured billions of dollars into the pakistani military. It has now reduced the military's dependency on Russia, but it's still a decade away from being fully independent.