Douglas Brookes, "Of Swords and Tombs: Symbolism in the Ottoman Accession Ritual," Turkish Studies Association Bulletin 17, No. 2 (1993): 1-22 \\].
Elsie Peck, "Crown iii. On monuments from the Islamic conquest to the Mongol invasion," in Encyclopedia Iranica \\].
The Middle Ages are a broad and ill-defined period, and the Middle East is similarly broad and ill-defined in a geographic sense. So I'll take these questions one at a time, and try to treat the various cultures of medieval Islam.
However, early Islamic writings also tended to denigrate the crown, emphasizing the turban in its place. This attitude is best encapsulated by the hadith that "turbans are the crowns of the Arabs" (Bayhaqī, Shuʿab al-Īman), though M.J. Kister's article lists a number of other examples in which crowns are portrayed as attributes of specifically non-Arab and non-Islamic kings. If turbans were associated generally with Islam, they were especially associated with Muhammad, who wears one in pretty much every medieval Islamicate picture of him—many of these pictures, incidentally, have other figures wearing crowns, so again, you see the ways in which different modes and types of authority were represented in different ways. (Robert Dankoff's essay, linked below, has quite a few of these pictures embedded if you're interested in that.).
A. Shapur Shahbazi, "Crown iv. Of Persian rulers from the Arab conquerors," in Encyclopedia Iranica \\].
This distinction between turban and crown seems to have been pretty generally maintained up to the ʿAbbasid period \[ED: according to Dankoff and Björkman—Richard Ettinghausen has argued for the crown's place in a three-hat system (crown, turban, tall conical hat) used by the Umayyad caliphs\], where a tāj al-khalīfa was included among the caliphal "insignia of sovereignty" (ālāt al-mulūkiyya). It has been suggested that in this as in many other aspects of ʿAbbasid culture, we should see a resumption of Persian practices. Later rulers in the ʿAbbasid domains—the Buyids, the Seljuqs, and the Ghaznavids—all seem to have worn crowns for ceremonial purposes, at the very least; again, we see this more commonly in the Persianate world than in other contexts. Elsewhere, however (for example, in Spain), the crown retained its association with non-Arab and non-Islamic rulership.
M.J. Kister, “‘The Crowns of this Community’ … Some Notes on the Turban in the Muslim Tradition,” Jerusalem Studies in Arabic and Islam 24 (2000), 217-45 \\].
I wasn't able to find as much general information about coronation ceremonies (or their alternatives) across the medieval Islamic world as a whole, so I'll confine myself here to what I know best: late medieval/early modern Iran and the Ottoman empire.
First, the Iranian case—the historiographic treatment of Safavid-era "coronation narratives" (why the quotes? we'll get to that in a bit) is the subject of an excellent paper by Sholeh Quinn. Let's start by saying that while Quinn makes an argument that Ismāʿīl I (r. 1501-24) was de facto crowned, she readily admits that that's not how the chroniclers saw it. The accession of late medieval Iranian monarchs in general, and the Safavids in particular, was formalized through an enthronement, or julūs (جلوس). The julūs ceremonies for a number of Safavid monarchs have been recorded in some detail in contemporary histories. They were often followed by other rituals that symbolized the subjects' commitment to follow a new leader—for example, the julūs ceremony of Ismāʿīl II (r. 1576-77) was followed by the formal kissing of the king's feet (by Iranian elites, vassal princes, and foreign ambassadors) and the presentation of gifts. Quinn argues that these rituals developed into increasingly complex forms from Ismāʿīl I's rather simple act of placing a crown on his own head, culminating in the "crowning" being done by the religious establishment (on a model superficially similar to that of most European countries) by the reign of Shah Ṣafī (r. 1629-42); and that these changing rituals reflected evolving Safavid ideas about the very nature of kingship.
Another case which has garnered a lot of attention is that of the Ottoman Empire, where the ritual (recorded in detail for the reigns of late nineteenth- and early twentieth-century rulers, but otherwise largely ignored by chroniclers) involved two stages. In the first, the sultan received the fealty of his entourage in the Topkapı Palace in Constantinople; he then journeyed to nearby Eyüp, where he was ritually girded with a sword. The first act, unlike the Safavid foot-kissing ritual which it might superficially resemble, was private: it took place in the Topkapı Palace almost immediately after the previous sultan's death and was restricted to only elite dignitaries and high-ranking palace staff. After the Ottoman conquest of Egypt in 1517, which involved the transfer of a number of relics from Cairo to Constantinople, this step also involved the use of some relics—in particular, seventeenth-century sultans would don a turban associated with the prophet Joseph. Only after this private audience would the sultan publicly proclaim his accession and receive the fealty of less important dignitaries as well as the son of the Crimean khan. For the second step, the sultan was girded by a religious dignitary with one of a number of symbolically-laden swords from the imperial treasury: that of Muhammad, of his companion Halid ibn-i Velid (Khālid ibn al-Walīd), of the caliph ʿUmar, of Osman I (founder of the Ottoman dynasty), or of Selim I (conqueror of Egypt). Brookes notes that occasionally sultans would choose to be girded with two swords, as in the case of Mahmud II (r. 1808-1839), but I am unaware of any earlier cases. The location of Eyüp, the site of the alleged grave of one of Muhammad's companions (Eyyub el-Ensari / \[Abu\] Ayyūb al-Anṣārī), lent spiritual and supernatural support to the new ruler. Brookes sees these two rituals as representations of the Ottoman sultans' claims to both Islamic and traditional Turkic modes of authority (the biat or fealty ceremony representing the first, and the sword-girding the second).
Sholeh Quinn, "Coronation Narratives in Safavid Chronicles," in Sholeh Quinn and Judith Pfeiffer, eds., History and Historiography in Post-Mongol Central Asia and the Middle East: Studies in Honor of John E. Woods (2006), 311-331.
For the ʿAbbasid case, I'm not quite sure; I know Aziz Azmeh's Muslim Kingship: Power and the Sacred in Muslim, Christian, and Pagan Polities (1997) has a chapter on regalia, but it's not available to me at the moment so I can't check the contents. G.R. Hawting's The First Dynasty of Islam: The Umayyad Caliphate 661-750 (2000) contains two references to caliphal regalia: first, to the "caliphal staff and seal" which he claims became formalized regalia after the death of the Umayyad caliph Hisham b. ʿAbd al-Malik I (d. 743), and the second to the cloak (burda) of Muhammad, which served as a symbol of caliphal authority under the ʿAbbasids. Assuming that the caliphal seal is equivalent to the ring (khātim) mentioned by the historian al-Ṭabarī alongside the mantle and the staff, the two lists do seem to track, so I'd say those were the three big elements. (Do we know what they look like? There might be pictorial evidence, but I'd need to look into that before making positive statements.).
I think it's interesting that they used to have pictures of Muhammad in medieval times. I know they didn't really care about his image being shown before the Danish cartoons, but when did they actually set up the rule that there should be no illustrations of him?
The reign of the Shiʿi Fatimids, on the other hand, saw a proliferation of relics associated with Muhammad and his son-in-law ʿAli—including ʿAli's sword, Dhū'l-fiqār, mentioned in connection with the Ottoman sword-girding ceremony above. A few other important members of the Fatimid (and after them the Ayyubids, Mamlukes, and in some cases Ottomans) were the parasol (miẓalla or jatr \[Persian chatr\]), a few different kinds of standards or banners (ʾaʿlām, ʿaṣāʾib, sanājiq), and musical instruments (musical patronage was a major activity in the Fatimid court, so modern historians have tended to treat displays of musical instruments as a form of regalia). If you happen to read French, U. Vermeulen has an interesting article on Mamluk royal insignia (and their continuities with Fatimid practice) in U. Vermeulen and D. de Smet, eds., Egypt and Syria in the Fatimid, Ayyubid, and Mamluk Ages (1995), 355-362.
Now, Gruber's argument isn't perfect—there may have been no ban on pictorial representations of the prophet, but that doesn't mean that such representation wasn't discouraged in certain times and places. Her article is less a comprehensive overview of attitudes towards pictorial representation, and more an argument that legally speaking, such activity was not covered by blanket bans in the same way it is today. (Though she has written more comprehensive articles \[which largely repeat the thesis that pictorial representation of Muhammad was a phenomenon largely confined to the Persianate world\], which I've also listed below; I just thought this one was a good response to your question.).