In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I think fraud and various voter laws are part of the criminal investigation and are on the table according to the New York AG. They just started looking into it though.
Yep. He'll resign when pigs fly. Now, if we find evidence he committed crimes here then he might find his next stop is prison and then possible extradition.
He is safe under any republican speaker because they know a democrat will be elected to replace him.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Santos won't resign. He'd have to admit to a lot of things and he's only in danger of ethics violations right now (though who knows maybe we'll find out more). He'll do anything to stay where he is especially since he doesn't want to be extradited, though after looking things up... He might actually be liable and be replaced soonish.
That said, it is odd anyone thinks republicans would remove a member for lying. They have open pedophiles in their ranks and don't care because to them a vote is a vote.
All of those would disqualify him and he can be held liable for it but as far as I know, he could technically still be a "Congressman elect". Since he's not sworn in yet, he's not actually a member of the Congress.
Part of me hopes that "present" keeps climbing but my suspicion is McCarthy will keep groveling and debasing himself for power and then all bets are off as to who is chosen next.
Voting present doesn't give into the chaos caucus. McCarthy WANTS the Chaos caucus to take him back. He will do ANYTHING to be allowed in the cool kids club again and he doesn't care who he screws over to make it happen. This is literally a high school drama playing out on National TV.
It would be hilarious and then they could continue their favorite game of "blame the Democrats for everything wrong with everything"... I don't think any would vote for the Democrat but if they voted present or just didn't bother to show up at all, that would lower the threshold needed to reach a majority. Which, in turn, would give Jeffries the Speakership. If they did that then they could claim that Democrats "stole" it from them and continue fundraising and using social media rather than doing anything useful.
I admit to some cynicism on that subject... Every single time I've had hope, I've discovered that Republicans find a way to make it worse...
To be fair though in the past, Democrats enabled them to keep doing so by intervening/compromising/attempting to make a deal... If the Democrats remain united, perhaps the least bad option actually appears.
What's even sillier is that they could then declare themselves "Independent" and point to the crazies as the reason for it. They'd likely win re-election because they wouldn't be primaried. However, "owning the libs" is the staple and quite a few of them are cowards. Just look at how many of them refused to do anything about Trump.
Anyone they backed would instantly be purged from the party for not being idealistic enough. The party would turn on them and he'd be in the same situation as Jeffries. The rest of the Republicans would gladly let him be sacrificed on the altar of crazy and removed from office as long as it's not themselves. The majority of Republicans in the House are cowards and any deals that a Republican promises them wouldn't be worth the paper they're printed on. Democrats have enabled Republicans for years, covering over their dysfunction and attempting to negotiate in good faith to keep the country going. For their troubles the Republicans have gone from slightly off to completely insane. Meanwhile Democrats are constantly being told it's their job to fix it but Republicans aren't being held accountable for it. The 20 holding Congress hostage are doing it for social media fame, they view their government job as a side-gig. Their full time job is shilling for the latest Qannon conspiracy theory.
I doubt very seriously that would even happen. She's not a current member of Congress and Trump+ the extremists would throw a fit. Add in that Liz isn't really much better, she voted the same way the others did 98% of the time.
Supporting her would be suicidal for their career as a Republican. Anyone who did that should just quit the party and become either an Independent or a Democrat. Also, while it doesn't state that they must be a member of Congress, that opens a loop-hole that could lead to someone Trump-like becoming Speaker which places them 3rd in line for the President. Then assassinations of the Pres and VP would be the next step to take the government "legally". Let's not set a precedent that could lead to an even bigger problem later.
How is that any different from now? Anyone who picks up the gavel will have to deal with those 20. Which basically means the next 2 years are going to be nothing but twitter trolling for more money.
It should never be used. If it's used once then it will be abused at a later date and it will likely lead to the end of the US as a Democratic government. Everyone in Congress should be elected by the people so that we can be certain they work FOR the people. Making an exception even once opens the door for it to happen again, next time it happens it might not be a good person who intends to uphold the law. Just because we "can" do something, does not mean we "should".
I get that you're hoping for something "good" to come out of this. However the potential for it to be used again by someone who does not intend to uphold the law is the reason it should not even be considered an option.
That's out of the question because the Republicans have stopped doing anything remotely close to compromising or helping Democrats. They're trying to out-Trump Trump currently and purging anyone not sufficiently crazy enough.
Any deals they made with McCarthy wouldn't be worth the paper that it was written on because he's incapable of keeping his word. He continued to attempt to keep Trump in power even after the attempted coup. Democrats should absolutely NOT help him in any way. He chose this path and he deserves to suffer.
... Yes, I realize this. I'm just saying that it shouldn't even be considered an option because it could lead to abuse later down the line. Once it is used even once, then it will absolutely be used again.
Every single time Democrats have bailed out the Republican party from their dysfunction they have been stabbed in the back for their trouble. This is the Republican parties fault, it's their mess and they are responsible for it. The Democrats have enabled them for too long, whether or not it's uncomfortable it's the truth. The Republican party got addicted to dysfunction and the Democrats enabled their addiction by covering for them, compromising with them etc... All they have gotten for their efforts is backstabbing and lies.
If the government is in crisis the people responsible for it are not the Democrats and they should absolutely NOT try to save the Republicans from themselves.