In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
it is bizarre how the GOP media (Fox, CNN, ABC et al) have trumped up the East Palestine train wrecks as Biden's fault.
GOP'er Trump was elected by the East Palestinians by over 72% to remove EPA rules, remove NHSTA rules, remove FEMA help which lead to the wreck and limited Federal response to investigating causes of the wreck.
I thought the whole point was to affect them and everyone else with less taxes and more freedom to have train wrecks and spew toxic chemicals into air and water.
I think it’s very important to emphasize that this is just the god damn vote. Don’t forget all the hard work Democrats did just to be ALLOWED to bring a vote. Don’t forget all the Republican sabotage to prevent an even better bill or even more bills. And now you have Republican politicians campaigning on the benefits of the bills without mentioning all the sabotage they did to keep it from happening.
As for the second bit, duh -- that's why we regulate, and why conservatives have been on the wrong side of regulation. Businesses are amoral entities designed to increase shareholder value. We regulate because a focus solely on shareholder value is usually bad for everyone who isn't a shareholder (and is sometimes even bad, long term, for shareholders).
As for the first bit, corporations are "woke" to the extent that their customers expect/demand it. They are not inherently woke -- they see that there is value to be gained in wokeness. What conservatives are truly complaining about here is the very basis of conservative economic theory: the market is self-correcting. I mean, if you're going to discount the ability of the invisible hand to deal with "wokeness" then what's left? Unmoored tax cuts?
GOP Gov. DeWine and GOP Senator Vance were elected for the same reasons by the East Palestinians, to stop regs and protections for toxic train wrecks and stop government help when they occur.