The only clothing tradition I know that regularly takes its clothing to pieces to clean them is Japanese. The traditional housewife was used to picking apart all the cotton, silk, and hemp-cloth kimono, washing the pieces, stretching them on planks to dry without wrinkles, then sewing them back together. This could be done because all the kimono were probably made by her in the first place, in what we call a "narrow-loom square-cut" style. This means no curved pieces, no hair-tearing fitting of concave to convex edges (actually easier by hand sewing).
First, dry cleaning was invented in 1821 by Thomas Jennings, and his patent for "dry scouring" was the first ever issued to an American of African descent. It was popular enough that he was able to buy his wife and children out of slavery.
That doesn't mean you want to pound it in boiling water! That's what you do with the body linen, sure. But the embroidered silk satin or triple-cut velvet isn't being worn to dig ditches. All it needs is a bit of spot-cleaning, being perhaps brushed, and aired out.
Unlike us, walking around in one or two layers of fabric, a man was wearing a shirt and drawers separating him from his suit. If he changed his linen, he should be okay.
"Men's suits" were invented circa 1650 when the "Persian fashion" of coat and vest replaced the doublet. So we only have to look at about 175 years of European-based clothing treatment.
Turpentine was used for solvent in Paris by 1827, followed by petroleum chemicals by 1855. Chlorinated solvents took over after WWI, both because they were much less flammable and they cleaned better. Modern "perc" or perchloroethylene began use in the 1930s, though it had first been synthesized in ... 1821.
If you research fabric care, you will find that all the fibers that truly won't tolerate water are modern artificial fibers. Everything used in pre-dry-cleaning Europe can be washed.
We also need to accept that standards of hygiene were lower. People in suits bathed weekly more than daily. The tradition was Saturday night, to be at your social best when packed into church. If your day-to-day woolen suits got a bit "you," well, so did everyone else's. It didn't have to be constantly de-scented.
The later 1600s are actually kind of infamous for the upper classes being very negligent of bathing or changing their linen. They wouldn't have bothered!
Well bloody well done, then! I've always wanted something to pop up on here or r/whatisthisthing that I had random decades of experience in, but alas, no such luck as of yet.
Otherwise, through the 1700s and early 1800s, men's coats were too tailored to be deconstructed and reconstructed. I have never read of it being done. Shaping the fabric takes place it the stitching, not just in cutting it. I was taught to do part of the shaping in the pressing. All this would be lost if you took it to pieces. After, you would be making a coat from scratch out of scraps.
And don't forget how many fabrics were involved. There was the basic suiting wool, the silk lining, canvas interlining, interfacing, and various padding fabrics. Many of these would cease to function if re-used , like interfacing losing its stiffness.
Fifty years of study, including twenty as a professional costumer and historical tailor, while going the extra mile and learning to spin and weave. There were no commercial sources for good historical re-enactor clothing back in the day. Making it for non-sewers was a pleasant income. But that meant not sticking to just one narrow zone: I had to grab every customer I could, so I researched broadly. Though there was the Bicentennial year when everyone wanted 1776 costumes.
Yes, I looked into historical cleaning. The boilers out in the laundry at a big British country house would also be used to steam giant Christmas puddings. But that came out of historical cooking research. .