This is relatively normal (if very cautious) behavior. It would be reasonable for an employer to look for assurance before they begin the expensive process of onboarding and training to see that there's not a problem here.
I had another employer that did an extensive legal review, but they did it before I had accepted the offer and given notice. They also reviewed the legal history and did a risk assessment, but they didn't ask to call my previous employers' legal department, and the desire to do so struck me as very odd.
The decision to come back to me after I have already given notice, rejected other offers, is what strikes me as odd. They reviewed the agreement and then after giving a green light, and after I accepted, they asked if they could reach out to previous employers legal department, as apparently they have contacts in common.
My previous employer has an arbitration agreement in my employee agreement. If they think there is a violation, they've already provided the right way to engage. A back-of-the-room conversation between new employer and old employers attorneys about whether or not its a violation, where I am not represented or present, makes me very uncomfortable.
Previous employer has no incentive to give a green light to new employer. If anything, they have the opposite incentive. They are also trying to retain me, so this could give them an angle to that end.
Given it is an executive level position I don't think they will simply withdraw the offer. I'm entirely for them doing their due diligence and forming their own opinion. My issue is with them reaching out independently to my previous employers legal department for their opinion, as I would not have any representation in that conversation and my previous employer would not have a judge or arbiter there to be impartial.
Again, your prospective employer, entitled now to say "we're withdrawing the offer" for any reason but the few protected by law, is entitled to decide whether or not to withdraw the offer. Because of that they can set almost any conditions they like to such a withdrawal.
They don't need your consent. Though perhaps a more likely path for them would be to withdraw the offer than to make an end run around your lack of consent.
If your former employer makes a bad faith response to the question, that actually could conceivably be actionable so they have at least some incentive not to do something outrageous.
If your former employer were here saying "this company is asking whether hiring our old person would violate the non-compete" our advice would almost certainly be to say "we're not able to form or share an opinion on that.".