For one, all current evidence suggests that Native Americans have been in the Americas for at least 10,000 years and likely much longer, based on carbon dating. As well as this, we know of extremely complex Native American societies existing before both 600 BC and complex societies existing before 2,000 BCE (most prominently the Olmecs, but complex societies with horticulture existed before 600 BC across the Americas). Beyond this, there's no evidence of Jewish contact with the Americas before 1492. The only known contact of the "Old World" with the "New World" before 1492 are small Norse colonies that existed and likely some level of temporary contact between Polynesians and what is modern-day Chile. Ignoring genetic evidence, pre-Columbian exchange horses were not present in the Americas. There was metallurgy present, but current scholarship suggests it originated independently in Peru and then potentially spread to west Mexico.
There's basically no historical basis to suggest that Native Americans ever had chariots with horses or some horse populations would have survived. There's also no historical basis to suggest that Jewish populations emigrated to the Americas: there is no credible archaeological evidence to suggest so, there is no historical record in the Middle East to suggest so, and there is no historical record in the Americas to suggest so.
The Americas before 1492 had large cities, complex systems of trade, and metallurgy, but all evidence suggests that it independently emerged and is not tied to any Jews who sailed across the ocean blue.
Minor tangent question, but related - do we know how early Jewish people did come to the Americas? Most of the early European settlements I hear about are various flavors of Christianity. Were Jewish people involved in the colonization from any of the major players? Would there have been Jewish people mixed into early settlements, or was there a notable "first primarily Jewish settlement"?
Ok so I want to preface this by the fact that I'm not a historian. I've done a lot of reading but don't have a degree.
A historian is someone who is an expert in or a student of history. Especially a specific time or place. There is no restriction of degree. You may not be a professor of, but you my man are a historian.
So what did early Jewish communities in the Americas look like? The first synagogue and real community was in then-Dutch Recife. Many expelled Jews fled east, across the Mediterrean, but many also fled to the Netherlands, where they established large communities in a relatively tolerable environment. Dutch colonists, some Jews, established short-lived colonies in Brazil where Jews existed in communities not dissimilar to those existing in the Netherlands.
In actually understanding early Jewish life in America we have to understand how Jews lived in Spain and Portugal, the two earliest colonizers. The same year Columbus sailed to the Americas, the Alhambra Decree actually expelled Jews from Spain (leading to large Sephardic populations across the Meditteranean!). However, Jews had already experienced centuries of anti-semitism under Spanish rule and there were large populations of Jews in Spain, called conversos, that had already converted to Catholicism. Post-Alhambra Decree, de jure there were no longer any practicing Jews in Spain, all openly practicing Jews having fled or converted. This did not stop many Jews from converting to Catholicism and secretly practicing Judaism with their families. For this reason, it's almost certain that the first practicing, albeit secretly, Jews in the Americas were Spaniards on Columbus's voyage. While we'll never know for sure which ones were secretly practing Judaism, there is one known converso on Columbus's voyage: Luis de Torres, or to use his birth name, Yosef Ben Levy Halvri. He was christened shortly before leaving for the Americas and left on the voyage after the Alhambra Decree expelled all Jews.
There's a lot to be said about this that I didn't go into: Portuguese Jews who were part of the first wave of exploration in the Brazil, Jewish communities in New Amsterdamn, but to sum it all up, Jews settled generally in colonies surrounded by Christians. Jews in Western Europe were on the whole more urban and more integrated with Christian life then Jews in Eastern Europe, and this lead to a more urban and integrated life in colonial America.
Ok, so offering an overview of the Americas before 1492 would be like offering an overview of the entirety of Eurasia. It's literally two continents with millions of people, and hundreds of tribes and languages. There are entire books dedicated to periods in individual tribes.
With that stated, the most complex (largest, densest cities, more people operating in specialized jobs) societies existed in the Andes and Mesoamerica, a cultural region stretching roughly from Northern Mexico to Central America. In the Andes, immediately before 1492, the Inca Empire, or Tawantinsuyu, was the sole power in the region. Large cities mostly nestled in mountain ranges, along with the most complex road system in the Americas, lead to trade routes that stretched from Southern Chile with what is modern day Panama. Gold, bronze, and silver was smelted and worked widely across the Andes.
Across Central Mexico, societies developed with large cities and . While previous states had exerted influence as far south as the Yucatan, immediately before Columbia's arrival, the Aztec Empire was the dominant state in Central Mexico. At the center of the Aztec Empire was the city of Tenochtitlan, a gigantic city larger than most in Europe at the time and one of the largest cities in the world. Tenochtitlan had the largest marketplaces in the Americas and relied on a complex system of irrigation on Lake Texcoco.
In the Yucatan, Belize, and Northern Guatemala were the Maya, a hodgepodge of city-states (and later empires and kingdoms) well known today for their monumental temples. The Maya are notable for having a writing system that was the most complex in the Americas, though the Aztecs and other central Mexican societies also had simpler proto-writing systems and the Incas had knotted strings, called "quipu" that could be used to record information.
North America outside of Mesoamerica was generally less complex but was still home to states (most prominently along the Mississippi and the Pueblo cultures of the Southwest) and thousands of tribes with different lifeways that varied from horticulture to fishing and gathering.