Picking it up will make it easier for the police to arrest you for the felony that you committed but if they care enough they can do it at your home.
Owning a fake ID is illegal in most if not all states. Possession of a fake ID in FL is a third-degree felony, and the person convicted for it can be charged with up to 5 years in prison and a fine of $5000. Talk to a criminal defense attorney and see what your best options are. Do NOT talk to or go to the police alone. Talk through an attorney only. You are likely in big trouble.
I know it’s illegal and a felony, i just dont know if it was even in there for sure. I figured if it was, and they really did want to get me, they’d just knock on my door. The letter is dated September 28th, so it has been sitting in my mailbox for a while. I will take your advice, but i dont appreciate the scare lol.
I'm not trying to scare you. I'm hoping to convey that this matter is serious. The police don't have to knock on your door or come get you any time soon. They have 3 years in Florida (I believe, NAL, Google it yourself) statute of limitations to charge you. They could be investigating you, or waiting on a magistrate or judge to sign an arrest warrant.
Know your rights. Ask a professional. Stop posting online about owning an item that is illegal. It really probably isn't even good to leave this up in the case that police see it as you confirm in this post that the ID is yours. You really need to start playing by the CYA rule, because, again, very serious matter here.
You're right, but that takes time and effort. It takes almost no time or effort to mail a letter and have you come to them. Police have discretion as to which crimes they prosecute. If you come to them with your crime, they will prosecute you.
Thats what im thinking, i wouldnt be in possession of it until they gave it back to me. Which would have to be against some sort of rule or law. But since everyone seems to be more scared than i, i’ll cut my losses and pray for the best.