Fit parents should plan on shared custody and relatively equal parenting time. For the most part neither gender nor income are substantive.
It sounds like there may be a question as to your girlfriend’s fitness. You should talk to your lawyer about how strong that question is and whether it may lead to something other than the ordinary custody arrangement.
I've practiced family law in PA, and I can confirm what others have already said: courts typically want children to spend roughly equal time with each parent unless there is a strong reason to do otherwise. Given the facts you've presented here it seems very unlikely that you would receive less than 50% custody. You may receive more.
Thanks for the reply. Also it's not that I want to keep our child from her or anything like that. But idk if I could leave if I had to let our daughter be under her primary care.
That’s mostly not a thing anymore. Again, unless one parent is established as unfit. Most children split their time between their parents homes, spending roughly half time in each.
It is fairly routine for drug treatment to be part of a custody agreement/order. I've never seen one that included a requirement for a party to get treatment for an eating disorder, but I see no reason that it could not be included. If you can get an attorney to help you with all this, you definitely should. If you're worried about affording an attorney, you should look into legal aid in your county. Most of PA has pretty robust legal aid.
The courts favor joint custody. Nothing you have said here by default makes her an unfit mother though it does raise some questions. So as long as she is still acting as a fit parent and providing the child with a suitable residence during her time, you should expect to share custody with the mother.
I will add: another benefit to filing a custody claim is that you may be able to negotiate for your GF to start drug and/or eating disorder treatment/counseling. For instance, you could offer to split custody 50/50 if she agrees to start appropriate treatment. This could be in her interest because of the risk that a court would otherwise grant you primary custody. If you come to an agreement, the court will (generally) enter it as an order, so your GF would be in contempt if she fails to get treatment. This could be very good for your child, as well as for your GF. This negotiation could either happen outside of any official hearing or at a custody conciliation (which is an informal hearing with a "referee" rather than a judge - it's much more like a negotiation than a trial).
If, for whatever reason, you can't get an attorney and you decide to negotiate for treatment like I've suggested, you should probably focus on your concern for your child in any communications with the court, a referee, or even with your GF. Judges are reluctant to order counseling for a parent's benefit (that's not what custody actions are for) - but they are much more receptive to this sort of thing if you focus on your fears for the child and the potential benefits to the child.
If both parents are considered fit and provide fit residences for the child, the child will likely split time between both houses.
If you can show the court that one parent cannot or will not provide a fit residence for the child or is unfit to care for the child, then the court may order that the child live with only one parent while the other parent receives only visitation.