Ah yeah. Give me more Germany bashing in the comments. Let us all forget that the Ukrainians can't hit a target with HIMARS without US confirmation or why the US haven't delivered long range rockets much ealier . /s off.
In the end I'm not suprised about the Germany bashing. Far right nationalist parties everywhere in power in Europe + the current discussion culture on the internet + the failures of the Schröder/Merkel era.
You can't compare the superior US support for Ukraine with the German one because the US military budget + all their weapon systems they have left of the conflicts in the middle east and the all time overproduction isnt comparable with the state of the Bundeswehr. Germany has always struggled to meet its military NATO requirements.
BUT STILL Germany sent a lot of military and humanitarian stuff. Why did the outcry because of Switzerlands ammunition delivery denial for the Gepard stop? How hard must a genocide be to adapt your laws to the current situation? There are currently 30 Gepards in Ukraine defending their civilians from the genocial attacks from Russia and dozen more Gepards will follow. Now it's a race between its ammo depletion and the current plans to produce the ammo in Germany and Ukraine. I know Switzerland send a ton of humanitarian help but what could Switzerland fear if they would give up their neutrality? No one would ever invade them and no country would survive a nuclear holocaust...
Why can't countries with Leopard tanks just go ahead and send them to Ukraine without German approval (with the exception of the Netherlands since they don't actually own their tanks).
20 years of letting their military stagnate, 20 years of trying to appease the Russians because of cheap gas, and now the Germans still have the gall to defend their abysmal foreign-policy record even as Olaf Scholz continues to suck Daddy-Putins dick while spending nearly a whole year coming up with excuses as to why Ukraine cannot be provided with the most numerous model of tank in Europe, with manufacturing/maintenance infrastructure only a few hours away from Ukraine.
The thing is, Germany (specifically Scholz government) is clearly still not taking the war in their back yard serious enough, because Russia is gearing up for potentially a winter or spring offensive. They’re nervous that the sale of Leopards will escalate Russia internationally. Ukraine would also most likely go on the offensive which is why Germany is reluctant due to the idea of Leopard potentially being used to roll into Russia, thus catapulting this war into something potentially even bigger.
Leopard tanks are proprietary tech that Germany owns the license to for exporting i.e buying and selling. When you buy them, part of the agreement of their use is that any sale of them must be approved by Germany so they don’t go to countries Germany doesn’t want them to go to, for obvious reasons.
Well if they were taking it more seriously they wouldn’t be dragging their feet waiting for a country that is 4000 miles across the Atlantic Ocean to also agree to donate their tanks too.
Have fun under your bridge I’m sure it’s must be as pleasant under there as you seem to be as a person!