In the Spanish Philippines, "educating" the native children would precisely run counter to the hegemony that the friar orders wanted to maintain: namely, their statuses as the only people who could read and write for miles around.
On account of its status as a distant and unprofitable colony, there was no particularly strong impetus for the Spanish government per se to "Hispanize" large swathes of the population. The only people willing to agree to carry this out to a degree were the religious corporations, and even then the process was purposely half-assed for centuries. Instead of teaching the natives Spanish, the friars instead learned the local languages of the natives - this would prevent them from "putting on airs", i.e. becoming learned enough to argue with them on the extortionate rates of their land rents and indulgences. The most that any average native child would learn would be rote prayers in Spanish or Latin, languages that they were unlikely to understand word for word. A secular clergy did exist which accepted natives into the priesthood, but their influence was harshly and bitterly contested by the Spanish friars - to a lethal fault. In short, it benefited the neglectful Spanish government and the landowning friar orders for Filipino natives to remain ignorant, illiterate and docile. It was the children who started being educated in Spanish knowledge, customs and values that started to cause a threat to Spanish rule.
\- Pasyon and Rebolusyon by R. Ileto (fantastic book as to how the Filipino peasantry were able to subvert religious indoctrination to the aims of self-determination and class liberation).
I've also read, I apologise if I can't remember where, that early Spanish friars (like in the first 100 years or such) learned the local languages not so much because they wanted the natives then to stay subservient and ignorant of Spanish law/policy…but mainly due to sheer practicality.
In many of the early towns often the friar was the only Spaniard (and sometimes he wasn't even there all year), which means for large regions in the early Spanish colonial Philippines the friar was the only Spanish speaker around anyway. It would be difficult for him to teach his language to all the natives and expect them to retain it over time, since only he, the very occasional conquistador, or the tiny handful of native quick learners would be able to help everyone else retain it. It was easier to learn the native languages because the friar could easily learn from and practice with the huge pool of speakers, so likely that's what happened a lot in early colonial towns from like the 1500s to 1700s or so.
(I won't discount that that maybe morphed into an excuse by later, more power-hungry friars for keeping later generations of natives illiterate and ignorant of the Spanish language too. Likely by the 1800s I do agree that thinking would be more common by then.).
This was true to a large extent esp. in the middle and late parts of Spanish rule, but the colonial period is so staggeringly long that I wonder if the motives and circumstances might've changed depending on specific place and time.
The friar orders (to varying degrees depending on the orders and individuals in those orders) certainly wanted to keep a monopoly on information & education, but the colonial state is interesting because it did eventually shift to a more liberal imperialist, "educate the native children" policy. Evidence for this is in things like an 1863 decree mandating free public primary education—including in the Spanish language (in fact, public schools built under this law apparently penalised students for speaking in native tongues, much like English-only school policies later)—and in fact Hispanistas & apologists for Spanish rule often cite this as proof that "Spanish rule was only ever good; the Americans were the eeeevil ones".
The 1863 law is not to excuse any other repression or neglect by the colonial state; it was still very unevenly implemented and often delayed, and of course it's still very imperialist and "civilise the masses" in tone and aims—in fact, more like later American colonial public education laws than we think. Plus, I think it's likely a lot of friars opposed even that, which goes back to your point that they could be against even liberal imperialist, civilising (ie. Hispanising/Westernising) education policy, even if both sides' end goals were some kind of colonial social control.