Your post does not appear to contain an answerable question. Please see for examples of questions that we cannot answer.
Please . If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, .
I mean she didnt wnat to do anything I encouraged her to find out whether she can still report it when she saw how much it bothered her.
Why doesn't she want to go to the police? She doesn't need an attorney if a crime has been committed against her. It's inappropriate and dangerous for you to be pressuring her as to how to handle her assault.
It isn't that she doesn't want to go to the police. Again she initially brushed it off and I encouraged her to see if she can still report it. When we found out she could she asked what next.
And we found out that yes she can. But it would be hard for her to find time to go to a police station. But I will see if she still wants too. I am not pressuring her to take the money. Just that if she does want to go down that route she gets as much as she deserves.
An NDA usually includes a promise not to file a lawsuit. If she doesn't have an attorney, doesn't want an attorney, doesn't want to sue, then she's not giving up anything by taking their money and signing the NDA. But she needs to understand it, no one should sign anything they don't fully understand and agree with. Their NDA might contain language where she agrees to not report anything to the police. Almost without exception, or perhaps entirely without exception, you cannot sign away your rights to report a crime, even if the document says you agree to not report a crime. A judge might even void the whole thing. That doesn't mean someone should sign something they don't intend to honor. It's good that she's been contacting an organization, hopefully something like rainn.org that helps people in his situation. She can get a free consultation with an attorney to see what her options are, or she can go this alone, and many police departments are open 24/7 (more commonly in cities and more populated areas).
No attorney and lawsuits take up time and resources she doesn't have. But it isn't set in stone. She may wnat to go that route.
My thing is jjst making sure she comes out as best as she can . She can't really go to atrorneys offices but I qm checking up free online legal advice from atrorneys.
Talking to an attorney face to face woukd be best but she can't give up even a couple hundred dollars to make that happen.
See the man had messaged her but she ignored it. That's when I said answer the message and see what he wants. Abd he immediately responded with an offer rof money in exchange for an NDA.