Sometimes companies create policies in good faith without realizing a possible paradoxical situation, which you've discovered. You should inform them of this.
I've mentioned these issues when they first made the policy and mentioned it again when it happened today, but was brushed aside and never heard a response. I've considered talking to HR, but to be honest I'm scared to go to my company's HR team and say "Hey you're doing an illegal thing and it affects me.".
It's the age-old problem of "engaged to be waiting", or "waiting to be engaged". You and everybody else are expected to be working on the problem, so that the connectivity is restored - in order to return to "work attendance". If the company fails to recognize this, perhaps a little prodding from the wage claim will help.
If your employer fails to pay you for time you worked, you should request payment for that time, and document that request and any response you receive. If they do not pay you for that time within six days of your request, you should file a with the Department of Workforce Development, and they will pursue the unpaid wages on your behalf.
The distinction here is that employees are required to work with the company's IT department while their network was down.
This new policy, I would think is a problem for the entire company - not just you alone. When you (or any other employee for that matter) are disconnected and call in to be clocked out, can you just go grocery shopping, walk around the block? I don't think so, you are expected to work the problem - as is any other employee.
If the policy was just that a stable internet connection is required, and disconnected employees must clock out until their connection is restored, that would be legal. The employees would be free to use that time however they wanted while they waited for their connection to be restored. (In that case, it would be like sending everyone home when the office's internet connection goes down.).
Is it my connection? Is it the VPN? Ping to modem, tracert to find where the connection is dying, disconnecting, reconnecting, flushing DNS, restarting modem/router, restarting laptop, then contacting ISP if I determine the issue might be on their end (not necessarily in this order). I'm doing this work while trying to fix the issue, and it definitely doesn't take five minutes.
However, since they are required to stay at their desk/computer and work with IT to get it fixed, then they are working, at the direction of their employer, and must be paid.
Other people that have these problems are going to call me and I'm going to either do this for them, or instruct them on how to do it, and it won't take them five minutes either. They should be paid for their time on the phone with me.
If they're not going to pay me for that time then the moment I lose network connectivity I should be clocking out and going for a walk or going to bed. If they want me to actively work to determine the cause and source of the problem then I need to be paid for that.
And for the other people asking, yes I have a (normally) stable fiber internet connection. The issue was not related to my ISP but with a hub in my area, and only affected a handful of people.
Paying out of pocket to resolve issues with my work's own shoddy VPN or to compensate for my state's poor infrastructure is not a solution to the problem.