In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
States actually are weighted in primaries by how blue to red they are. Likewise, the realities of Presidential campaigning means that most states will in fact be mostly ignored in terms of visits and spending.
This is worse than Iowa depending on who you support. South Carolina Democrats are relatively conservative and pro-establishment. Iowa had a tendency to give a shot to new candidates and new ideas. SC will shut that shit down. Which I suspect is the point. If diversity was important Nevada is a far more diverse early state than SC.
My statement still stands: getting voter support in SC is only a problem for candidates who can't bring a message to those voters.
It's a ridiculous oversimplification for candidates to simply win by having a "message" to those voters. Are Democrats at a disadvantage in Utah in general elections because they are not delivering the right message? Of course not, the voters are predisposed to be against any message a Democrat would offer and their candidates. The Dems would have to change who they Just like voters in SC are going to have predispositions. This is almost nonsensical.
It's a problem either way... Voters are different in each state. For example voters in SC are going to be less open to lgbt rights than say voters in NH. Campaigning is helpful but doesn't make the electorate magically change.
To be frank though, SC voters in particular are kind of useless to appeal to because it's an unwinnable state in the general. NC or Georgia would have been much better picks if the goal is to see how the candidate appeals in those sorts of states. Same with Nevada, very diverse purple state.
You don't get to dismiss Democrats anywhere. They all deserve representation and have equal say in who the nom is, and the nominee represents ALL Democrats across the nation, without further qualifier. If that's a problem for someone running, they need to re-evaluate why they're running.
The goal of making all democrats matter equally in this process is only marginally furthered by the elevation of SC or any particular state to first. If we were trying to treat the votes of all Dems equally, SC as the first primary is not particularly representative of Dems nationally. In fact, if a a more representative structure is the goal, there probably shouldn't even be a state by state battle system, as it consistently raises the importance of particular states completely arbitrarily.
Eliminating the skew of small exceptionally white states and caucuses in favour of a group of larger and more diverse states absolutely enhances the parity of voices in the party.