If they avoid being served, then the judge will either reschedule the case again- and you might be able to request it on one of your days off. It's a pain in the ass I know- but hopefully your work will understand the necessity of court summoning's.
Or the judge will escalate, meaning that that they can order the papers be served to their home address, close relative (think anyone in the house, spouse typically), or place of employment. This is likely to happen if you bring up that you believe they're avoiding due process, so I would definitely push to speak with the judge this Monday. The defendant skipping out also may make the process easier for you, as it demonstrates guilt and apprehension.
So my advice, would be to ask if the judge could escalate and drop it at said person's work or home- or to bring up your tight work schedule. As for your chances, that depends on the accusation and evidence.
Ultimately, if they wish to play the waiting game, you most likely will have to wait until the judge decides to proceed without the defendant- a decision you may be able to push for if you have a compelling argument. And if you believe they are doing this as a way to waste your time and money, speak with your lawyer about slapping "Frivolous Litigation" on top of your restraining order argument. Aka, make the legal argument that they knowingly wasted your time prolonging the process, and that you wish to be reimbursed for damages.
I would talk to your attorney, as many states have protections for employees making court dates- so long as notice is properly given (ala, a court doctument). This may also be easier as you're a teacher and a federal employee- but this is a legal area I'm not certain in.
So, I’m a teacher so there’s no days off for me. The person lives alone in an apartment. Before this started, I had the town cops go check on her and they stated that a man opened up the door and said she didn’t live there (this was a straight lie). Family member is unemployed so there is no work to deliver this to.
As for them being served, so long as said apartment is registered under their name, the documents can be served without physically handing them to them. (If you can contact them, it may be worth reminding them that each failed attempt at serving, accumulates heavy fines).
I don’t have a lawyer, I can’t afford it. It’s just extremely hard for me to take off work as a special education teacher because of the needs of my students. There’s no way I can keep taking off every 10 days or so until she’s finally served.
I'm sorry to hear that, it sounds like a rough position to be in- generally not hiring a lawyer can make these process's a lot more difficult. I would try to comment on your circumstances to the judge, and find if the process can be hastened- but without a legal expert at hand, there's not a lot of legal avenue's I can recommend.
I just feel like it’s unfair to me... this is already so incredibly stressful. It’s one thing for the family member to be served but a whole other ballgame for them to just avoid being served all together.
Unfortunately, this is the process. If she doesn’t receive service, the protection order is null and void. Many courts are doing Zoom or other online options which makes taking a short break for the hearing easier but you are the one asking for the order.
I was told from the court that I should carry the temporary restraining order at all times so if she comes after me, I call the police and show them. I’m still “protected” they said.
So hold on..... I requested a restraining order for my safety. You’re telling me if my family member is hiding from the police to get served, the whole thing becomes void? That doesn’t seem right..... our hearing is virtual. I still need to take off work because I’m a teacher. I can’t just wait around all day in the zoom waiting room for this hearing to begin.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.