1. Adult children are adults. If you are assaulted by anyone (even your mother or grandmother), you can call the police and file a complaint.
If you declared yourself as independent on your tax return despite the above, then you have two problems. First, you may have committed tax fraud by falsely claiming to be independent. Note that you are an adult, if it's on your tax form, it's your tax fraud, not your mom's tax fraud. If you really do qualify as independent though (e.g. you made more than 4200$ at some job last year and you're not a full-time student), you're in the clear.
Edit: note that at 20, your mom is probably not obligated to house you and feed you, so take that into consideration.
If indeed the IRS deemed you independent and sent you stimulus checks, your next steps depend on what happened to those checks. If you got those checks and gave them willingly to your mom for her own bank account, then that's a gift and it'll be hard to claw it back. If your mom intercepted your checks and fraudulently cashed them behind your back, then it's check theft/fraud. You report that to the police and then you call the IRS to have stolen checks replaced. However, you'd have to hurry because there are stringent time limits on reporting this sort of thing. The IRS might have a deadline beyond which they don't replace stolen checks.
I’m trying to sue my grandmother/mother for the money my godfather sent to them. I’m not trying to sue my godfather, I’m trying to sue my mother/grandmother since that money (said by my godfather) was entitled to me for a car that was sold. I don’t know why he went through my grandmother to go to me which was a breach in trust.
We (me and my sister) have called the police about Abuse, and we have contacted CPS, however the police showed up and said “we don’t know why we’re here” and told us to just stay on separate sides of the house. The police are of no help due to my mother knowing them. Which is why we had to put in our CPS report that she was abusing the system and claiming “i know a guy”. When the police showed up she said “i just got off the phone with the sherif” to them. They didn’t help at all.
Because small claims is less strict, I guess it's possible they could humor your case against mom/grandma for 1200$. You'd have to prove to them ironclad that godfather sent you 1200$ via grandma, and that she had agreed to act as a courier and give you the whole amount, but then she absconded with the money. You'd need to bring godfather to testify in court and he'd have to be extremely clear that this was your 1200$ and that your grandmother had agreed to remit it to you.
Say you had an agreement (preferably written) that your godfather would give you 1200$ for a car you legally owned (your name was on the title), but instead godfather claims they've given the 1200$ to some third party X (doesn't matter if it's grandma or the pope). In court, you wouldn't have standing to sue X, because X owes you nothing. Godfather owes you 1200$ and that's the end of it.
However, I can't tell with all the twists and turns in this story, whether there really was a binding agreement between yourself and godfather. In an alternate scenario, godfather had loaned you a hooptie (his name was on the title), and then he got rid of it for 1200$. When you kicked up a fuss, he completely unrelatedly gave 1200$ to your grandmother.
In the real world, when you ship a thing and it fails to arrive, whomever paid for it is the one with standing to sue, so I'm not sure if your godfather would be better place to sue grandma, but maybe you would be able to sue as well...
It's also not clear if the 1200$ was lying around in grandma's house and then was stolen by your mom. Theft, your grandma would call the police to report it.
I have evidence supporting that the money that was sent to my grandmother was supposed to be sent to me. I can also get my godfather to testify that, and Most likely (unless he called) would also have sent a message that would say that this money was supposed to be given to me and not them.
I’m not trying to press The Godfather, since there is proof that the money was sent, and that the money was for me.
About abuse: you can't force CPS/police to investigate, and you can't force the DA to prosecute. You can only report it. In both cases, people usually say "the squeaky wheel gets the grease", meaning more reports help. CPS is unlikely to be interested in adult children, but if your 2 year old sibling is being abused, that is horrible and I hope they do take it seriously.
An alternative for the 2 year old sibling, if you have substantial proof of the abuse and enough money, would be to seek custody of your sibling. This will be hard, which is why the evidence would have to be incontrovertible, and you're going to need a family law attorney. Perhaps an intermediate step would be if your mom were willing to "temporarily" voluntarily relinquish custody to you.
As for the adults, I think the usual solutions for adult victims of domestic violence, is to move out.
We reported it to CPS, and have proof of previous abuse & intent to only have a child for financial gain. We called CPS, they came and interviewed everyone, then 15 minutes later we had to call the police for child endangerment to which nothing was done at all (and again, previous times the police have been called to this same location for domestic violence and drug abuse). My sister and i aren’t trying too hard to take custody since we don’t really have a place to live that’s safe enough for the child and she’s not married.
Some of it is domestic violence (by moms boyfriend to mom, by mom to 2 yr old) some of it is mental and verbal abuse (to all her children, to my grandmother, and anyone around her she gaslights).
I think the easiest solution is for the adults to move out (possibly together), and bring the 2yo with you. Mom gets to continue fraudulently claiming baby on taxes so she won't care. Being married or not changes nothing.
No we can’t. We already moved out, and we can’t take the child since she would call the police and say that were putting the child at risk (even though she has no evidence and she’s all hearsay vs our evidence and proof) we don’t have an environment to keep the child, or is financially safe enough to do so. We’ve spoke with a CPS agent about fin-aid, but we don’t think that she would pass since we don’t have a secure household, and she’s not married. It’s not in our favor to keep the child, but the child deserves a good home.
We were expecting CPS to take the child as soon as possible, but our final week remaining in the house got so much progressively worse, ontop of what we already showed them. We had to RE-contact CPS and again, call the police too, but still she’s being allowed to abuse people. Towards the last week my sister was forced to keep her cats in her room and they would cry at the door, and seeing (again, documented history) how my mother treats animals, it’s abuse. You can’t force 3 cats to stay in a single room for an entire week, while you spray aerosols in the hallway that people have made known to you that they are allergic and that the cats and baby are too.