Grandma leaves the baby with you because it's your baby and she has zero obligation to provide you with daycare (or housing, food or anything else for that matter). And again, because it's your baby, you can take him wherever you want, including off the property, unless there's a court order stating otherwise. If you don't want to give grandma custody, don't. Her expecting you to care of your son doesn't mean she's treating you and your boyfriend like "free babysitters". It's not babysitting when it's your own kid.
I understand that part but she keeps pressuring us to give her custody, I think because she knows she can get money for it. That's really my only gripe, that's fine, let us take care of our son but don't try to impose rules on whether or not we can take him with us. Stop pressuring us for custody if you don't actually want to do the work.
This is a relationship issue not a legal issue. You can tell grandma to kick rocks but be prepared that the consequences of doing so may include you and your boyfriend having to find your own place.
We've been trying to do that but because she won't let us leave with our son, it's been impossible. Yet she says every day that we need to get our shit together.
Edit: I have no problem leaving but she's got another think coming if she thinks she's kicking me out and keeping my son. If I leave, he's coming with me. She sat me down one day and said she wants to keep the baby here until she dies. Like in other words, even when we get our own place, she wants to keep our son. I told her to go fuck herself. Not literally but yeah.
Try harder. Take your kid and walk out the door. If grandma physically prevents you from leaving, threatens violence or does anything else to endanger you, call the police. Grandma will not be able to gain custody of your son unless you and your boyfriend were to lose it due to abuse, neglect or abandonment.
She doesn't let us leave the house unless she takes us. I've told her I have appointments and she doesn't care. I think she wants custody for the money but wants us to continue to be our son's primary caregivers.
What is grandma doing to physically prevent you from leaving the house with your son? Is she holding you against your will? I don’t understand what’s keeping you and your son there.
Doesn't sound like she is holding you do and not letting you go. You have free will and would do so if you wanted. But obviously there is something keeping YOU from doing it.
Why does she have custody? Did you give her custody, or was it taken away from you for some reason? What did the legal custody agreement state as far as your visitation and obligations? What benefits does she get that you speak of?
I see. You don’t have a legal question yet. Why don’t you just take the baby with you? She has no legal right to tell you not to take the baby. You and your boyfriend need to do everything possible to get out of her house and become independent as soon as possible.
Edit: if it went through and she got custody, we would have to help with his basic needs and with money. I'm in Florida and if I remember correctly, she can get a kinship care check from the state.
ETA: be honest, it's kind of pissing me off because it seems like she just wants the money that she would get from having custody but doesn't actually want to do the work. I think that she found out she can get a check and that we would have to give her money so that's why she's pressuring us.
She doesn't yet. She keeps pressuring us to give her custody and I don't want to. No, custody was never removed from us, she just keeps pressuring us to do it. The courts were never involved. As of right now she technically has no rights to our son. There is no custody agreement as of right now. As I said, she just keeps trying to pressure us into giving her custody. CPS was never involved either.
Okay, just thought I should post it here about what to do because it almost seems like she is making getting custody contingent on us staying here. Like she brings it up every single day and I keep telling her, no, there is no reason for you to have custody. One day, she actually came to me and sat me down and said I would like to keep the baby here until I die and I told her to go fuck herself to be honest.
Like I said, I think that she just knows that she will get money from having custody and that's what she's after. She just wants an easy payday but doesn't actually want to do the work of taking care of him.
Like if she has custody, she'd get a check from the state and financial help from us but obviously doesn't want to actually take care of him. It makes me sick that people do what she's trying to do. She's not getting custody on my watch. My boyfriend actually agrees with me on this.
Thank you, finally someone who gets it. I have no problem taking care of my son but why should she have custody if she's not gonna do it? She wants us to continue to care for him but thinks she can impose these ridiculous rules like we can't leave with him. She also wants to keep him even when we get on our feet.
I was floored that she said she wants to keep him here until she dies. For what?! This is what makes me think she just wants custody for the money especially because she wants to keep him until she dies. It just disgusts me that she seems to see my son as a free ride or a meal ticket.
Not at this point. My concern is that she would get custody and pawn him off on everyone else. I'm convinced she just wants the check she'd get and the financial assistance from us. She's money hungry anyway. Always has been. Even before I got pregnant, I noticed that she's always chasing money and has no problem ripping people off in order to get it.
Edit: My point is ultimately why should she have custody if we're gonna continue to be his primary caregivers? What's the point? The greedy woman just wants a free ride using my son to get it. 🤢😡.
Nah, don't let it come to this if at all possible. Finding a place to rent with an eviction on your record is a nightmare. If grandma terminates their tenancy in accordance with the law, OP and family should just leave.
Edit: I have no problem at all taking care of my son. The issue is that I'm tired of her acting like she's the parent. She really does nothing with our son yet thinks that she can impose rules on us about our son.
I'm not, I've told her from day one that I am not going to agree to that. Yes, she's a safe person but I don't trust her not to keep my child from me and I honestly think she only wants custody for the money she would get.