You can try suing in small claims court in GA. I can't speculate on your chances of success, but you can certainly make an argument that after the requirements for the event changed, and a disability made meeting the requirement impossible, that you were entitled to a refund for the tickets. You should not expect any compensation for any travel or lodging fees.
This is hyperbolic, and it's unlikely that you would do yourself any favors by presenting it that way. Nobody stole from you or did something under false pretenses. The world changed between when you paid for the tickets and now. There's no reason to think this was anything nefarious on the part of the event organizers.
I figured we be screwed for travel and lodging, unfortunately, but thank you for the info about small claims court. The disabilities in question are medically documented.
The disabilities themselves may be medically documented, but that doesn't necessarily mean that not wearing a mask is a reasonable accommodation. Prepare for a skeptical reception.
The issue isn't whether you consider wearing a mask to be a big ask. The issue is whether something that was an absolute dealbreaker to someone was announced at the last minute, and then refunds were refused.
Also, is there a way to sue in small claims court in GA without all of us having to physically travel there? We would be seeking to recoup our expenses on the grounds that, due to documented disabilities, we were denied access to the event and also denied a refund. At no point did we try and show up and demand the mask rules be changed for us. We were and are seeking to recoup expenses from being informed, at the last minute, that members of our group would be effectively barred from the event for having certain disabilities.
It's a bummer they were rude about it, that was definitely not the best way to handle it, but it's entirely your choice not to comply with the rules and forfeit the money you've paid for the tickets.
Asking everyone else to be at risk to accommodate her is not a "reasonable accommodation" during a pandemic. During a nationwide pandemic she could be seen as a direct threat to the health and safety of other people as well. They are well within their right to deny your request.