Edit: they didn't take top spot mostly because of seatbelt latch issues (the very thing this recall is about).
The Model 3 is on the list for Midsize Luxury cars, and the Model Y is on the list for Midsize Luxury SUV, and both have Top Safety Pick + ratings, the highest rating category on that website. Note, they're not listed at the top of either category's list because the listings are in alphabetical order, thus placing Acura at the top of each category list. Both models have the same highest rating for last year, but the Model Y isn't on the 2020 and earlier lists because it didn't start being delivered until Q2 2020, too late to make the 2020 tests for that year. The Model 3 has the Top Safety Pick + rating every year back to 2018, the first year it was available for testing since the first deliveries weren't made until Q3 2017.
Interestingly, the Model S and Model X never made it on this list, which is maintained by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety in conjunction with the Highway Loss Data Institute. The IIHS and HLDI are not the only entities that do safety testing on vehicles, there's also the National Highway Traffic Safety Institute, a federal government agency. A search at the NHTSA ratings database for Tesla Model S and X indicate that all years and variations of those have five star safety ratings in all testing categories, the highest available rating:
EU, US, and China would all have different laws, so you'd put on a particular variant of your software for wherever it is you sell it. It is, after all, software. You can swap it in and out easily at almost any point before you sell it.
It's not about where it's made, it's about where it's going to be sold. It could be made in China but if it's being sold in Europe it will have EU-compliant software. Same would go for any region that might need particular laws and regulations catered to.
The US has been pressuring apple into creating a backdoor into iOS for decades to "fight crime". The EU has strict requirements relating to data privacy so companies wishing to release software with the EU will have modifications to work around those requirements, the UK has similar law.
There are a few jokes here but yes, china has a lot of different laws regarding software designed to be released, this can be small things like certain terminology or what is allowed to be shown for instance Chinese versions of videos games will have additional censorship.
They can also require developers to have certain applications installed by default, they will pressure companies into including back doors into the software, to make surveillance easier.
I believe the US Tesla software and the EU tesla software is quite different to due to the requirements around being able to classify the self driving technology so some features are disabled/enable to comply with specific laws.
Producing cars to be sold in America in America, and then producing cars to be sold in China, in China.
Or producing cars to be sold in China in America and then shipping them all via freight in the thousands to be sold in China.
Car manufacturing is frequently done either in or close to the countries they are sold in because the alternative is huge shipping costs, giant import taxes and a whole host of other complexities.
This isn't an Elon musk big brain thing or some Elon corporate sellout thing this is just the economics of international shipping and compliance.
My friend with a Model 3 was shocked last year when I told him how much gas was, nearly $5 in my area. He had no idea, he hasn't bought gas in years and quit paying attention to gas prices when he got his Tesla.
And Ford just announced a recall of over 600,000 SUVs with the 3-cylinder engine for a cracked injector that can lead to a vehicle fire. The recall covers the last three years of production, including 2023 models that have been for sale for a few months now. The bigger the car maker, the bigger the recalls. You'll never see a massive recall on the exotics like Ferrari or Lamborghini because their production capacity is so tiny relative to the big makers, but they do still have recalls. I don't think a single manufacturer has been able to go a whole year without some sort of recall over the last few decades.
Lithium battery fires, as incredibly rare as they are, stay confined to the car, and they can be put out, they're not like magnesium fires. Gasoline fires, on the other hand, happen dozens of times every day in the US, and often when the tank ruptures burning gasoline travels along gutters and across roadways, often sparking secondary fires. Also, battery fires are pretty much only associated with major car crashes, whereas gasoline fires often begin in cars just driving along the road when an injector cracks (like the current crop of recalled Fords) or a fuel line breaks, etc.
Huh, your implied claim that EVs have fires more often than gasoline cars seems to be contradicted by actual studies of the matter, as reported by this story from last month:
25.1 fires per 100K EV vehicles seems a whole lot lower than 1,529.9 fires per 100k gas vehicles. In fact, a simple calculation of 1,529.9 รท 25.1 = 60.95, so gas cars are 61 times more likely to burn than EVs. Now, when a Tesla burns, and those are really rare, they make the news just like when Pontiac Fieros made the news, because they were different and unique. The news of burning Teslas also gets pushed and amplified in social media, just like you're doing here, for various reasons, such as trying to salvage a short position on TSLA or as a way to try and make Musk's companies go out of business entirely. A lot of people in this world would love to get their hands on the IP of those companies in a bankruptcy auction, and the CEO of those companies has really pissed in the cheerios of a lot of people in this world. He has plenty of enemies willing and able to spend large on attack campaigns. There are also the band wagoners that love a good old mob to hang out with, because who doesn't love a good pitchforks and torches mob, right?
I was just providing context to the recall conversation. A lot of people in these Tesla-bashing comment sections seem oblivious to the fact that every car maker has recalls, and they have them all the time. There's literally nothing unusual or unique about Tesla's recalls, other than the fact that unlike everyone else, many of Tesla's recalls are done with OTA updates overnight while their owners are asleep. If Chrysler had OTA update capability Anton Yelchin would still be alive, and I'm still pissed about that. Honestly, any recall that can cause death, like the Chrysler shifter fuckup that killed Yelchin, should require automatic disabling of the car until it's fixed, and the car maker must provide a loaner car to replace the disabled car until the recall is completed. So, the 500,000+ Fords that just got recalled for the cracked injector(s) that could lead to a vehicle fire need to be taken off the road right now, today, locked out from being driven until they're fixed.
Anyway, the claims that EVs are more dangerous than gas cars, that they burn all the time, that they're "lithium bombs", are just plain false.
Those stories get removed quickly because I've never seen even one. The current reporting indicates total Russian casualties are likely in the 85-88K range. Remember, reddit doesn't curate any stories, users report stories and people are free to comment on those stories in the comments sections. There are plenty of good news sites out there that get referenced here on reddit.