In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Interesting to see that the skewed reporting rates occur on both sides of the aisle even if Republicans leaning areas are more likely to do so.
So, they’re saying police perpetuate racism? I have a hard time believing this. It’s gotta be some kind of liberul plot The police in America are the least racist people in the WORLD /s.
Over or under reporting provides an untrue narrative that can stymie efforts and direct resources to the wrong area.
Unfortunately, black people have carried the stereotype of being more likely to commit a crime for quite some time.
It’ll take more than under-reporting crimes committed by black people for that stereotype to go away.
People (in the universal sense) tend to ignore data, and data often shows that crime is concentrated to certain neighborhoods that often have higher poverty rates, are disinvested, etc. These areas tend to have higher rates of black residents.
Plus, those democratic areas that are skewed could be over reporting other minority groups, and creating further perception issues for the future.
None of that justifies under reporting though. Once people are aware of over-reporting they can do something about it and push for change. However, if Fox and the rest of the right wing media eco-system pick up on the fact that a few Democratic areas skew it the other way, they can wave it off as 'both sides pull this trick, it doesn't matter'. To be correct we need to be honest. It's better for everyone to tell the truth and it helps insulates you from an attack like that.
Media needs clicks, law enforcement needs to justify their overblown budgets, politicians need scapegoats & talking-points, etc.
Under-reporting crimes by a certain group isn't an honest or helpful path forward, especially if it leads to over reporting of another minority group.