This sub was a huge catalyst for me throughout the years to change my profession ( I was a long time lurker before I signed up for Reddit). The details in the answers and the inevitable rabbit holes they send you down are incredible. Not to mention the reading reccomendations which I can't thank people enough for. I worked in the medical field after graduating college. The money was good but there was no passion there. A few years ago I went back to school in my 30s and now teach High School history and I'm an adjunct professor at a community college at night. I love what I do now, and I love engaging with students in a similar manner that people who take the time writing thoughtful responses engage with this community. Thanks for everything r/askhistorians and happy birthday!
Funnily enough, reading post was the final nail in the coffin for my incipient pursuit of academic history. I decided to abandon my PhD efforts and joined the workforce shortly thereafter.
Hearing about the stress of some of my former colleagues (and this was all prior to Covid-19) really affirmed this decision.
I don't say this to be a bummer—my passion for history has not yielded in the slightest—but avoiding professional history was definitely the right path for me.
I am a young askhistorians citizen celebrating my 9th birthday in the early-mid 21st century. What would me and my friends be doing? What were the common traditions?
I feel sorry for the sub when it gets old enough to drink. I've seen the questions that get asked here sometimes, and the sub is going to be in for a rough puberty.
That they're tons of fun at parties? And that you might just get lucky enough to meet one at the AskHistorians2020 conference nentworking event?!
I guess I got lucky. I enjoy what I do, and have a lot of time to spend with my son. I didn't have a problem to finding a high school teaching gig. I had one lined up before graduation. Now I don't think I could get a PHD in history, or anything right now. My wife has her PhD in biochemistry and works in epidemiology at the university of Texas medical branch. It takes a special person to go the academic PhD route, and those that can handle it probably won't listen to a random person on the internet.
I'm sure there are dozens of already-prepared answers lying dormant just waiting for the opportunity. I mean really, it should just be one enormous thread; at 00:01 on January 1st there are going to be countless posted threads, and it will be up to the mods to decide which one gets to stay.
I'm frequently impressed by angles question askers take that clearly don't come near 'normal' academic history, yet are still such a fascinating question about every day life.
But in seriousness, sometime the goal isn't a giant sub of 10+ million. Sometimes the goal is a good quality sub. And one does not always lead to the other.
That seems unlikely. I've seen the puppy dog levels of enthusiasm and optimism coming from there, there's no way that would survive the crushing experience of adulthood.
Actually, I think we're pretty prepared for it. We've done our homework (so to speak), and made preparations. We have plans and I think when the time comes people will be impressed by the heat of our arguments.
What if everyone involved is the CIA? The person asking the question? CIA trying to spread misinformation. The person answering the question? Different CIA dude trying to spread different information.