Edited to add: a slight caveat on the origin exact phrase "graveyard of empire." The phrase was in circulation in the 19th and early 20th century, however it has not been consistently applied to Afghanistan. The current association of this specific phrase with Afghanistan seems to have been popularized by commentators on the U.S. Iraq War and members of the Bush administration from 2001-present.
As far as I can tell, the exact first use of this phrase is unclear, but it emerged in the aftermath of the Anglo-Afghan wars, specifically the first Anglo- Afghan war. (1839-42) The substance of the trope is that the geography of Afghanistan is so inhospitable and it’s fighters so warlike, it is essentially impossible to conquer. This trope of Afghanistan as “unconquerable” has since been perpetuated in literature on the USSR’s attempted Cold War invasion (Chamberlain, The Cold War’s Killing Field, 2010) and evaluations of U.S. invasion and occupation of Afghanistan. In using the trope, authors will sometimes refer back to the Greek empire and the Mongol empire as other “victims” of Afghanistan, but those examples are more tenuous.
I’ve used the word trope a lot above, because this characterization is hard to sustain with further historical examples. First of all, although British forces were pushed back during the first Anglo-Afghan war, subsequent wars in 1878-1880 and 1919 did successfully push further into the mountains and forced Afghans to cede territory to the British. Britain didn’t colonize Afghanistan in the same way as, for example, India for a number of reasons but it’s hard to call the Anglo-Afghan conflicts an unmitigated failure. Similarly, the USSR’s invasion of Afghanistan was not just a conflict with Afghanistan, but a proxy war for the Cold War. This means the U.S. and allies were funneling arms and money to the Mujahedeen-- perhaps most notably, Stinger missiles. This context makes it hard to say it was just Afghanistan’s inhospitable landscape and “warrior spirit” that held up Soviet forces. (Chamberlain, The Cold Wars Killing Field, 2010 ) The U.S. invasion and occupation of Afghanistan in the 2000s has likewise also been characterized by U.S. mismanagement and intelligence failures, which again has more to do with the U.S. than Afghanistan (Ricks, Fiasco, 2006) In each of these cases, this trope offers a useful way to explain military failures that doesn’t require a more critical look at the actions taken by the invading force. (Manchanda, “The Graveyard of Empires,” Middle East Critique, 2019).
So much for the modern history. As mentioned above, people will sometimes also cite the Greeks and Mongols as premodern examples. In these cases as well, there’s contextual historical information that throws some doubt on these being examples of Afghanistan's unconquerability. But here, it’s even more effective to cite the empires Afghanistan was part of over the medieval and early modern period: Sassanian, Il khanate, Safavid, Mughal, Mongol (eventually), Timurid, and Uzbek. In fact, until the 18th century, Afghanistan was so frequently invaded some scholars have characterized it as a “highway of conquest” rather than a graveyard. (Barfield, “Problems in Establishing Legitimacy in Afghanistan,” Iranian Studies, 2004).
There is perhaps a bit of truth in the geography part of the argument in that Afghanistan borders a mountain range, and mountain ranges tend to be natural borders. But the idea that this is a distinctively impenetrable border is hard to sustain. In general, any claim that rests on generalities about the character of a land or people should raise our eyebrows. The idea of Afghans as inherently warlike, or possessing some innate ability to resist invaders was legible in the 19th century because it fit into racialized tropes about a “barbaric east,” and is likely legible now because of the popularity of similar rhetoric about “Islamic extremists.” Similarly, the idea of an inhospitable, impenetrable landscape fits with western ideologies of an “unknowable” east. (Priya Satia, Spies in Arabia, 2008/Satia “The Invention of Aerial Surveillance in British Iraq,” in From Above, 2013).
Further follow-up: I did a little more digging on the specific phrase "graveyard of empire" and can't find anything definitive. It seems like the phrase was in circulation in the later nineteenth and earlier twentieth century, though not specifically in relation to Afghanistan. In addition to the Mesopotamia references, I also found a 1930s news article about Africa as the "graveyard of empire" and some stuff on Palestine as the "graveyard of empire." In the 1990s, there's a Washinon Post column that calls Delhi the graveyard of empire, and a Toronto Star article that calls the 20th century the "graveyard of empires.".
How did this trope emerge? The first example most authors cite seems to be Britain’s decisive loss in the first Anglo- Afghan war (1839-42). This loss was keenly felt because the British had expected an easy victory against an “uncivilized” force, and was instead pushed out of the mountains with significant losses. This incident was then memorialized in news, art, and popular culture: for example, the painting “Remnants of an Army” which depicts the “sole survivor” of British forces on the retreat. (view here: \_ ) This expanded popular knowledge of what was ultimately just one of many colonial wars, and helped spread the idea of an “unexpected” defeat that required some other explanation. Interest in this battle was also heightened by popular interest in the so-called “Great Game,” the 19th conflict between Britain and Russia of over central Asia, most notably depicted in Rudyard Kipling’s Kim. In the case of the Soviet and U.S. examples above, invading forces likewise anticipated easy victories before becoming mired in extended conflict, which perhaps explains the continuing appeal of this trope.
The article Paul D. Miller (2016) Graveyard of Analogies: The Use and Abuse of History for the War in Afghanistan, Journal of Strategic Studies says the phrase is "sometimes attributed to Mahmud Beg Tarzi, an Afghan nationalist intellectual and foreign minister in the nineteenth century, but there is no confirmed citation of Tarzi’s usage of the phrase." In a footnote, Miller also says he emailed the author of that Foreign Affairs article from 2001, Bearden, who "confirmed in an email to me that he was not knowingly following an older tradition of calling Afghanistan the “graveyard of empires,” and that, for all he knew, he invented it." Of course, this was 15 years after he wrote the article, so you might take that with a grain of salt.
In any case, I think my above answer still answers the question of why Afghanistan has come to be labeled "the graveyard of empires" in more recent accounts, and why that label is suspect. I can add a caveat about etymology of the exact phrase.
I mean this hints at a few meetings in the past two years. That's a far cry from supplying them with significant amounts of weapons. Especially considering most top gear obtained by the taliban has been fleeing or corrupt US/Afghan Army Allies in the tribal regions. I don't know man the US fucked this one up from top to bottom and any aid given by Iran could've easily been counteracted.
I suppose that suggests the Foreign Affairs article was the first use in relation to Afghanistan and then the Bush administration collectively used the phrase enough from 2001-9 to give everyone the impression it was conventional wisdom? But it still seems odd to me that an anthropologist like Barfield or other area studies folks would describe this as "conventional wisdom" as well, since those scholars were studying Afghanistan well before 2001 and should have been in a position to say "actually, this was something the CIA invented/the Bush administration popularized" if that was the case. Area studies scholars are usually pretty sensitive to those sorts of things.