I've respected Corbyn for some of his views in the past, but his views on Russia's invasion of Ukraine were just typical tankie bullshit calling for the west to stop arming Ukraine. If he got his way, Ukraine would be overrun right now by Russia. As far as I'm concerned he's toxic to Labour and they can do without him.
He's had strong Russia sympathies long before this. It's a major red flag when a self described leftists start shilling for a far right dictatorship. It shows their ideology is just 'authority good', and everything else is just window dressing.
yeah, way too many leftists of his generation can't shake their cold war binary thinking. The USA is bad, thus the west is bad, thus anyone opposed to the west is actually good. They'll rightfully oppose western war crimes with passion, but the moment a non-western aligned state is doing the crimes, even genocide, it's suddenly rambling whataboutism or outright denial.
On foreign matters, he's very bad in tackling aggressors. We would have never been in the position of supporting Ukraine wholeheartedly and our nuclear deterrent would be a paperweight. Which I think most people would say is bad.
Putting that aside, I don't like him, and his supporters are disgustingly obnoxious and delusional. But if your metric is solely wellbeing of the British public, Corbyn would have been a far better PM than any of the Tory economic terrorists who turned Britain into a place some full time workers can't even afford to eat or heat their homes in winter.
The pros of Corbyn is, and this takes a bit of crystal ball gazing but still holds true, is he prioritises British working people. So the current insane energy prices without sufficient aid - never happens, stagnant wages under the living wage - never happens, negotiation with unions - happens because he is pro-union, waste dumping into local environment - never happens. But most importantly, and I think this holds true also, he would never prioritise reopening the economy over public health - so the masses of dead old codgers from covid who voted against him would have had more years ahead of them.