In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
It reminds me of back in 2014-2015 when they were complaining about AP US History (APUSH) because the primary textbook is A People's History of the United States, which takes a more critical look at American history (and also does not pander to that Lost Cause bullshit).
It's kind of surprising that DeSantis didn't ban AP Human Geography. Because one of the things you learn in that class is that once disparate people share a geography, usually within only a few generations, they begin to inter-marry and produce blended offspring. There are factors that slow this process such as a religious isolation or enforced racial segregation. But eventually, even those barriers prove weak. Look at a typical 1st grade class today. It's a complete melting pot.
I am frankly shocked there hasn't been a court challenge to his 'anti-woke' CRT crap. They are outlawing academic subjects they object to. And not on the basis of whether they are factual or not, but on the basis those facts might upset snowflake children. Or shows a perspective that exposes the ravishes of institutions like slavery, segregation or restricting native Americans to reservations.
What I am getting at is this idea of the great replacement theory and these fears white conservatives have that their 'culture' and 'prominence' is under threat is foolish. Demographic changes are already fully underway. And there is nothing they can do to change it. It's organic and is only marginally affected by new immigration. The die was cast long ago.
Well there must be a good reason. I have a solution. African studies for black students only and White American studies for white students and Latin Americn studies for spa ish kids.