In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Except I didn't respond to that part, so let's stop cherrypicking 1 item of the tax code as somehow representative.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Not defending the dirtbag, but the difference is the law and your ability to use it in your advantage.
A big loophole which Congress keeps open is your ability to carry losses from year to year. So the rich collect losses and then report them to off set their taxes. Congress needs to close this loophole, but the Dems often blame the rich rather than blaming he tax code.
Instead of fixing the carry forward loophole they changed if from 20 years to indefinite. So idiots like Trump can reach back to when he owned casinos and claim millions in extra losses.
Congress needs to change this, but they don’t even talk about it. Instead they occasionally “shame” a couple people a year for using it.
So what a lot of ultra rich will do is just take out loans when they are older. They don't need to sell assets, and their assets just increase in value.
When you die, your next of kin inherits your stocks, but their basis cost is the value on the day of your death. (Not the price you acquired them at).
Then when you die, your next of kin gets the step up basis, sells the assets, pays zero tax, and pays off the loan.
You're completely ignoring the fact that the rich spend billions to buy politicians and literally write those laws.
That's why I voted for Elizabeth Warren -- she centered her entire agenda on getting rid of corruption and money in politics.
What's not a good idea is that the poor and middle class pay higher effective tax rates than billionaires.
There is no good reason to allow people to carry over losses indefinitely. The longer you allow the more difficult it becomes to detect fraud. Doing business comes with losses and often much greater profits. We’re essentially taking much of the risk out of get rich quick schemes.
There are inherent risks when operating a business. Instead of business assuming those risks we are spreading them to tax payers.
If I have $100M and try to make an extra $20M, but instead lose $5M in the first year, businesses are allowed to carry those losses forward. So what they often do is continue to lose money even as the value of their business grows and live off loans from value of their business. So in two years they actually do make the $20M, but pay no taxes because they choose to run the business at a loss or nearly flat.