You should talk with an estate planning attorney about a will, advanced directives, and, if you have someone to handle it, a medical power of attorney.
Check your state laws: not all states are “next of kin” I live in Wi and If you so not have someone designated it does not just automatically go to family/ they would need to petition for guardianship over you. If you don’t have someone you would list the decision making goes to a corporate guardian. Basically people who do that for a living.
You need to find someone to act as your personal representative - either a friend, a family member, or an attorney. Then, you make a will and a living will expressing your wishes.
But how does that work with hiring an attorney to do it? With me being so young, if I die of old age, whatever attorney I had hired would also be dead. What happens if I make it and then that attorney goes out of business?
I dont have any family or much in the way of friends, I don't socialize with people very much. Due to my past I have some health issues one of which is ptsd, and another of which is agoraphobia.
I can’t speak to your state’s laws, but you can change your paperwork as long as you’re competent, and many states allow you to register a will (put it on file with the state). Many if not all states also have an official whose job it is to settle estates when there is no one else (sometimes, the title is “public administrator” - if you want to google, start there). You may be able to do up your docs (consult with an attorney - some states allow holographic wills, some don’t) and see if you can make the public administrator your agent.
You might have to change/redo if you move to another state, but that’s just be like having to update your driver’s license and voter registration and the sundry other gotta-dos when you move to a new state.
I knew I didn't want my parents involved but it made it more challenging that I also didn't have anyone else who could help, and didn't know that you can appoint attorneys to settle your estates and stuff too so thats a big help.