I asked about earlier this week, but the question was maybe a bit specific and went unanswered, so I'm going to turn this around:
A general political history with some emphasis on parliamentary politics would also work, I guess. If it covers earlier or later periods without compromising the period between 1660 and 1823, that's a nice-to-have.
Can anybody suggest a book on the history of the parliament of England/Great Britain/the UK in the period roughly between around the restoration 1660 and the voting reform act of 1832, the relative power of the houses, and parliamentary and electoral practices?
But to be serious for a moment, if you're interested in Qing onward, the best introduction is still Jonathan Spence's The Search for Modern China, which goes from the fall of the Ming up to the end of the 20th century. He does fall a little into the Opium War trap as well, but at least he covers a lot of what goes before. Personally, for a couple of more specialised topics, I'd recommend Julia Lovell's The Opium War as something that gives a lot of context to the war and its legacy; Stephen Platt's Autumn in the Heavenly Kingdom as probably the best introduction out there to the Taiping Civil War; and Peter C. Perdue's China Marches West as an extremely compelling and comprehensive account of how the Qing Dynasty conquered Mongolia, Tibet and Xinjiang over the course of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, how they consolidated their hold, and how they crafted their imperial ideology.
EDIT: Also, Hans van de Ven's China at War is the most up-to-date introduction to China in WW2 there is.
Could anyone recommend a good overview of modern China, i.e. Opium Wars onward? Preferably something with an audio version? I feel like I'm reasonably well-informed about Mao, Deng, and more recent Chinese history, but I'd like to expand my knowledge.
As far as I'm aware only Autumn in the Heavenly Kingdom has an audiobook, but Search for Modern China may as well. The Opium War doesn't have an audiobook, but Platt's Imperial Twilight, which covers the war's buildup, does.
Of course, if none of those interest you particularly, you may find something else on the catches your eye.
I mean, if you like MacCulloch's version of the Reformation, his Christianity: The First 2000 Years should be up your alley. Another general history that's come out recently is Carlos Eire's Reformations: The Early Modern World 1450-1650.
You're probably not going to find many biographies of Bullinger in English, but there are tons about his theology. Only one off the top of my head is Heinrich Bullinger and the Covenant by Wayne Baker.