Sorry, we have removed your question. While it is not a bad question, it is worded in a very long and confusing way, so we're not entirely sure what you're asking here. It seems to be asking about whether or not your personal idea of the theory of history is correct or applicable, which would be against our rules on poll-type questions. If you could summarize and clarify your question, you may repost.
hello, dont mind the sorry. First can we dialogue here? becouse i want to defend something here. I give you the confusing way of presenting, even in my native i ramble. But i have to disagree about the "personal opinion". I do put some background from where i am asking, but this aint a ego post, i do wander what other intakes on the subjet could it be, giving "my opinion" is so the readear know my position on the subject. Do i have to quote specifc theoric passages on the autors i named so the post is at your standrads? I dindt think so becouse form waht i read, the people who know the subject also would see that is not a personal intake or not poll.
Sorry, whether this is an issue of English being a second language for you, or just your own way of writing, but several mods looked at the post and none of us can quite get the point you're going on about - which is why I suggested you might want to summarize and clarify your question.
In as few words as possible - without lenhy explanations or citing any particular authors - what exactly do you want to know?
yeah i guess, as there are more than one question, at least the orignal one would be something like...
farther of course, i would go more far. Wont you say, as is is writen there (How Does Linguistic Theory Affect Historical Methodology and Research?) that makes historical "making" knowldge monolitic?
Historical knowledge is very much not monolithic, historians are still coming to terms with incorporating different perspectives, technologies, and disciplines into how they do their work. You might be interested in our threads on and .
ty, but you know as a historian postmodernism will never be a word that suit us. Tho' i am kinda drawn into the lingustic turn possibilities. Anyway nice chat i will repost later maybe, i dont want to ask a dry awnser.