I love how the Tories claim this is a weather issue in the growing regions, but can't explain why these shortages aren't hitting Europe anywhere near as hard as the UK.
Sometimes they absorb the extra cost, and often they raise prices and people have to live with whatever food was in short supply getting more expensive.
Europe's retail merchants tends to buy their food at spot prices. If there is less of something than usual, they will pay more for it.
In UK on the other hand they tend to buy at fixed prices that are set at regular intervals. (can't recall if it was annually, but still, far apart enough to not be responsive to unexpected shortages).
According to the journalist the explanation they had heard is retailers were worried about changing prices so often on goods to match buying costs as it would "confuse and anger" their customers.
Because if there is less goods around to sell, those that still have something to sell that isn't already spoken for, will naturally favor selling to those who will pay current market price for it.
Doing this though does on average keep costs lower. But also more vulnerable to shortages. If their regular suppliers who they have these contracts with fall through because of a problem that is impacting many, then they have a real problem finding other suppliers.
UK's grief is also not over as the expensive electricity has meant that many UK suppliers who use greenhouses to make their produce scaled down production to cut on costs.
At this end Brexit is also a problem due to lack of workers. It also makes it harder for UK growers to capitalize on higher prices in Europe on short notice, so they have less incentive to maximize production despite high production costs.
Less relevant for greenhouse growers, but for farmland growers leaving the EU also cut of an agricultural subsidy. It is gradually fazing out now. It was based on amount of land owned, so those that had lots got lots. A new subsidy UK implemented to replace it was meant to be fairer, except you had to have a farm of a certain size, so many small farms do not qualify, and generally most have so far lost more than they've gained.
After seeing how Donnie managed emergency PPE distribution during 2020, I’ll pass on government control and distribution of goods and services.