There are ways to become a sperm donor so that you do not assume the financial responsibilities of fatherhood. They usually involve everything you listed PLUS you need to do it through a licensed facility employing a certified physician. But your attorney, who you should consult prior to agreeing to or doing anything else, can and should tell you everything you need to do. Listen to them and do not try to take short cuts.
I'd be inclined to get my own attorney in order to avoid that problem. IT may well be something that isn't going to happen, but there's no way to know that right now.
They have an attorney to help with all the paperwork, I was going to get one to go over the paperwork. I still haven’t decided if I want to or not, I have fully informed them of my family medical history just in case.
In a hypothetical future in which you are in an adversarial relationship with one or both of the women, that attorney does not have an obligation to you to be candid and diligent in how s/he handles the law. S/he has a duty to the women, but not you.
If it's not through a fertility clinic licensed for this purpose, nope yourself the f out of the situation as hard and fast as you can. You would have no real protection if the couple splits and the custodial parent tries to sue you for child support. You'd be the biodad, so you very likely might be put on the hook.
I have already informed them that I'd be getting my own attorney to look at the paperwork and everything else involved. I had not thought about a potential law change. Thank you for the advice.
If this is being done through a licensed fertility clinic, then most likely you would be free of concern about child support. In theory, a new change in law from a court could override the law about a donor not having child support obligations. It's extremely unlikely, but not zero.
I personally wouldn’t see the child as “mine” just my genetic material. I know I will be around it since I’m good friends with the women. Does it complicate things that they want two from the same donor(me)? Both women in the relationship want to experience pregnancy.
I had already brought up that situation and stated that it had to be done through artificial semination, I looked up a bit of the laws in Iowa and it stated something along the lines of if it were done via intercourse that the parental rights could fall upon me.
It will not fall back on you as long as you properly donate the sperm to a medical facility and sign the correct paperwork.
Be careful though cause knowing the child is “yours” and you might see them often could be a problem regardless of what you say.