Your landlord may be willing to accept other documentation, such as an account balance. You may be able to submit stubs for multiple weeks or months to show an average.
That's something for you to work out with whoever you are renting from. IF they have income requirements that you don't meet, however, then you don't meet them.
In general, though, about the only thing you can do is explain your situation and ask. The suggestion to offer up-front payment is a good one; many landlords are willing to work with that.
Here in AZ there's not a single database or anything like that. Your best bet are either going to be going through a private landlord (like, renting a room in someone's house instead of an apartment complex) or looking for places that advertise to lower income or no-credit renters.
Some landlords will work with you, they may accept you based off the balance of your bank account. Others might request that you pay the lease up front. So you could work out a 6 month arrangement and pay all 6 months at the start of the lease.
It would depend on the individual landlord. You may have the most luck by trying to rent a single room. In such a scenario, you may live in a room of a landlord's house, rent from a master-tenant, or sublet from a tenant who wants to leave. You would have access to common areas, like the bathroom and kitchen (usually). Rent is often cheaper because you're splitting it with one or more people. Craigslist has an entire section devoted to rooms for rent, (currently on my local CL feed there's a probable creeper trying to "help out" a SINGLE ((emphasis his)) female by renting a room and bathroom for free in exchange for light cleaning. He just wants to help. He says). Remember that rental scams exist, be cautious.
-Never pay for a place you haven't physically entered. There are instances where such a situation might not be a scam, but you should just assume the worst.
-You want a written lease agreement, nobody is really doing you a favor by offering you a verbal agreement. While an oral lease is valid, you'll be hard pressed to prove the terms agreed upon. This means if the landlord changes the rules of the agreement or terminates your lease you may have no recourse.
-You can often return here with questions about rentals, though a more appropriate sub will often be r/scams.
-Always photograph your new home to document its condition. You want to note the torn up blinds and stain on the carpet. Try to get a move-in inspection with the landlord, it'll be great if it's accompanied by a checklist that you both retain a copy of. You can find online.
okay, thank you! are there any resouces to find a landlord that will accept those alternative forms of proof easier? All the places in my area require pay stubs so far. Sorry if this is a bad question, i really have no clue.
ive seen those craigslist ads too, they are a bit worrisome. especially for people who dont know any better.
thank you for youy detailed response, it made me think of things i would have never considered even though they are the most important.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.