Yes but it wasn't very easy. In 1872, the Meiji government passed the Firearms Control Law (銃砲取締規則). Under these regulations, only licensed gun merchants were allowed to sell firearms, and had to keep a strict log of who they had sold these weapons to. Ex-military officers were allowed possession of their old firearms, but they would be specially marked and stamped as well as strictly recorded. It was a crime to lose a firearm without reporting its loss. Essentially only hunters could really purchase firearms.
In 1899, a new law called the Firearms and Explosives Control Law (銃砲炸薬取締規則) was passed, which made it much more difficult. Under this new law, the gun trade was brought under full government control. Even the transfer and transport of weaponry was nationalised where it was before open for tender. In fact, even the internal transfer of weaponry within the military or police required direct authorisation by senior officials. Of course it was still possible to acquire a gun, but the number of exceptions had dropped drastically.
The defining work of scholarship is Endo (2012) - 1872年銃砲取締規則の制定過程 : 近代日本における武装解除と銃社会規制の端緒. Which you can access from this link. It's in Japanese though.
To add on to this, there is an excellent and extensively sourced summary of Japanese firearms legislation available at the .
A notable aspect of firearms access during the Meiji era was the practice of renting guns to farmers and hunters that needed them. Private ownership was significantly restricted during Meiji, though there were still mechanisms available for a citizen to have access to a firearm for approved purposes. In most cases this meant a hunter or farmer would rent a gun from an authorized dealer for a period of time (usually an annual renewal) in order to hunt game or manage pests. They would also be required to provide records of the game which was killed with the gun to justify the rental. Overall, however, having a gun as a private citizen was very rare and highly controlled. Even former Samurai were forced to surrender their firearms as part of the Meiji sword hunts, as the government saw guns as being under the sole purvue of the military and the government.
Historically, guns have been an extremely disruptive factor in the political conflicts of Japan right from their introduction during the 15th century. The Tokugawa shogunate introduced restrictions on firearms very rapidly after the closing of the country (Sakoku itself I have seen interpreted as, in part, a response to foreign arms sales to Daimyo and the potential threat of a well armed Tozama clans like the Satsuma). Letters from field commanders during the invasion of Korea in the 1590s place a strong emphasis on Samurai being sent to the front lines to arrive with at minimum 3 rifles, and an acknowledgement that firearms would be and should be the primary weapon of war for the Samurai going forward. (If you are interested in this subject, I highly recommend looking into "Houjutsu", the traditional Samurai firearms martial arts.) This is all to say that unlike other places in the world (such as the USA), firearms have always been a restricted object by the government and seen as too dangerous for regular citizens (or peasants) to have without controls.
EDIT: Also, to add some social context to these restrictions, in the period around the Sengoku civil war peasant revolts were a serious issue in many regions of the country, and restrictions on weapons in general were seen as a way to limit the ability for peasants to revolt against their lords. Firearms exacerbate the danger peasant armies pose to the Samurai, and this mindset is clear in the restrictions that would be enacted going forward.
There was certainly a relationship between the sword bans and the restrictions on firearms. Guns have always been a weapon of war foremost in Japan, and any use for hunting or even self-defence is a secondary consideration in the Japanese context. Placing restrictions on firearms served the same purpose as the restrictions on sword ownership, in that it lessened the availability of weapons by the peasantry and by disaffected Samurai alike, and further enforced the monopoly on violence held by the Shogunate (and by extension the Fudai Daimyo, those that supported Tokugawa during the civil war). Peasant revolts were a significant concern during the first sword hunts after the consolidation of Tokugawa power, as they had defined much if the period prior to the civil war (for example the Ikko-Ikki in the late 1400s). The Meiji era sword hunts served the same purpose to suppress dissent. The Imperialist faction that had won that civil war had gained its foothold though the use of privately armed samurai insurgents. They were well aware of the dangers an armed populace posed to them during as tense a period as the reopening. Restrictions on the possession of weapons were an important extension of the more broad, national powers the new Japanese government now exercised.
This makes me a bit curious: given that the private samurai insurgents were so integral to the Imperialist victory, how did they respond to being disarmed? Or were they incorporated into the new imperial regular army and thus not subjected to the disarmament scheme?
I can't speak to the specific reactions to the sword hunt among former ShiShi (the name for the samurai who attacked foreigners and officials/merchants that interacted with foreigners), more generally the Samurai who opposed opening the country (who were in theory the faction who won the Boshin war) raised a rebellion against the new Meiji government in opposition to the sweeping changes to the legal, government, and cultural structures of the country. I would suspect that any Samurai who opposed giving up their arms would have either supported Takamori's rebellion or figured out how to live under the new regime.
To speak to your second question, the was a transition for many samurai into the new armed forces, so there was likely some leeway given. I'd have to look into specific laws or military procedures, but I don't know at the moment.