In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
"Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi journalist and a Washinon Post columnist, was critical of Saudi Arabia and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s policies. He was allegedly killed and dismembered on October 2, 2018, in the Saudi consulate in Istanbul by men with close ties to the highest levels of the Saudi government and bin Salman.".
That was expected of Trump. Biden campaigned on calling Mohammed bin Salman a murderer. Fuck Joe for this, I do not wanna support these moderate Democrats who are ok with human rights' violations as long as we get ours. Fuck that, this is cowardice. Biden should have said nothing at the bare minimum, and if he had to say something, this shouldn't have been it.
Lets say Joe, sues MBS and the saudi government. spoiling our relationship. maybe even captures and brings MBS to the USA for trial.
the implications of what you want Biden to do would reach far beyond this assassination. it would be saying the USA has direct power over Sauda arabia and they are our Vassal state. it would be tantamount to a declaration of american empire.
Biden is president for all of us. he has to think about what is best for everyone. sometimes that means making a hard choice over something like justice. thats what being a leader is.
honestly he's been cold as fuck to the sauds since becoming president. relations between our nations are some of the worst they have been in a LONG time. He's probably constrained because its likely were going to enter into a world wide recession again here soon. its the smart choice to not try and make holes in the boat when everyones trying their hardest to keep the boat afloat. sometimes as a leader you have to do what will be best for the most amount of people vs doing what you feel is right.