The best overview of the terminology that I'm aware of is a terrific essay on this in David Reynolds' anthology From World War to Cold War: The History of the 1940s, with the entirely appropriate title of "The Origins of 'The Second World War'." Much of this answer is sourced from it.
In Great Britain, there were a couple of early references. One was from Duff Cooper, one of the tiny handful of Tories in leadership who openly opposed appeasement, outright resigned after Munich, and later served in various posts under Churchill. Much like Churchill, Cooper had made a majority of his income by writing, and in late 1939 after war was declared he tried to make a quick buck by publishing a collection of his previously published criticisms over the last couple years as a book titled "The Second World War: First Phase". It didn't stick; like their German enemies, pretty much everyone else on the British side of things just called it "the War.".
That finally changed a bit when Churchill wrote his memoirs. His initial working title in 1946 was "The Second Great War", but finally in September 1947 when the initial release of his books in the United States market was just a few months away, he formally settled on "The Second World War." As I've written before, given , I'd argue this had an outsize role in the wider English language adoption of that terminology. With official government war histories well underway by not just the British but also the Dominions and others, all involved were polled in 1948 and - with the exception of Australia, which apparently disagreed - the concession by Churchill to American standards was formally adopted across the English speaking world under the leadership of the Attlee government. French government entities formally followed suit by late 1950.
expanded in December 1941 to include the United States and the European colonial powers, it was described as the ‘Greater East Asian War’ (Dai Toa senso). Under the American occupation after 1945 the ‘Pacific War’ (Taiheyo senso).
It is fairly widely known that the Soviet Union never adopted the term World War II, partially since the First World War didn't really fit into Communist ideology - for party theorists, it was a capitalist and imperialist struggle. Instead, the favored term used by the press and leadership starting the day after Barbarossa became "The Great Patriotic War," which tied in with the language used to describe the 1812 invasion by Napoleon ("The Patriotic War".) I can say that long past the fall of the Berlin Wall - and back when I still comprehended Russian on more than a very marginal level - that terminology (Velikaya Otechestvennaya Voyna) survived well into the 1990s even by Russians far outside the FSU, and I believe it's still used today.
For the Chinese, the preferred term is apparently Kang-Ri Zhan-zheng, or the War of Resistance Against Japan, but I don't have first hand knowledge of the scholarship here, although it looks like it may have been a post-1949 event. I'm not sure if the current regime has refined this further.
I would like to expand on this a little bit. The term is correct, but it evolved over time. For instance, the moniker "great" was added after the war, wartime documents refer to it as just the "Patriotic War". I'm also not sure how it was translated into English as "Patriotic", a more accurate translation would be "War for the Fatherland" (the Russian state can be referred to as both the Fatherland (Otechestvo) and Motherland (Rodina)).
The Japanese had a slightly different take; I'll quote Reynolds directly here because it succinctly summarizes the complexity of the multiple political implications underlying the language so well.
became the official title, but nationalist revisionist writers revived the earlier term in the 1960s.".