So before I talk about air support during Ichigo, a bit of context might be helpful. During the beginning of Ichigo in May 1944, there were around 520 Allied aircraft in the China theatre. This breaks down into 340 aircraft from the American Fourteenth Air Force and XX Bomber Command, 100 from the Chinese-American Composite Wing, and 80 from the Republic of China Air Force Facing them were around 230 Japanese aircraft. Although both Allied and Japanese command would throw in more air forces during the campaign, it does not disguise the fact that the ability of air units to contribute in an air support role was severely hindered by the mere lack of planes. Consider Operation Goodwood: in three days (18–20 July 1944) and in an area of around 25 sq. km, more than 2000 Allied bombers were committed to support to capture of Caen. Now consider Allied air units during Ichigo: less than 1000 aircraft were available to hold down an entire theatre, with the theatre being the size of China.
To further compound the problems faced by China-based Allied air units, their supplies had to be flown over the Himalayas, a journey the pilots called ‘flying the Hump’. Fuel, spare parts, machinery and even the planes themselves had to be flown in, as all major Chinese seaports were occupied by the Japanese, while the Burma Road had been cut following the disastrous Burma campaign of 1942. The supply situation was not helped by strategic disagreements between Claire Lee Chennault, commander of the Fourteenth Air Force, and Joseph Stilwell, de facto commander of ground forces in the China theatre. Chennault argued for an air campaign against Japanese-occupied China, and eventually Japan itself, conducted from airfields in southern China. Stilwell insisted on a general retraining and rearming programme for Chinese Nationalist divisions, before fighting a ground campaign in both Burma and China. This resulted in tensions between the two services, especially over the allocation of scarce supplies. In the end, Stilwell was placed in charge of allocating the Lend-Lease supplies, with the majority of it going to the American trained and armed ‘Y’ Force, fifteen Chinese Nationalist divisions that Stilwell would lead into Burma in 1944. These arguments would continue into 1944, and hinder the effectiveness of Allied air forces during the Ichigo campaign.
At the start of Ichigo, strategic considerations meant that China-based air units had to perform three different tasks. 200 fighters were assigned to protect the B-29s based at airfields in Chengdu, while another 150 aircraft were allocated to Stilwell’s Myitkyina Offensive in Burma. Only 150 aircraft were available to contest air superiority over the frontlines in China. Chennault recognised the precarious situation faced by China, and in a memorandum sent to President Roosevelt in May 1944, urged for more support for the fight in the air.
Chennault requested an increase in supplies for the air force to 8000 tons and the diversion of all supplies meant for B-29s to frontline air units. However, his request was rejected by Stilwell with the support of the United States Chief of Staff Marshall. In Marshall’s words.
Y. F. Chen, ‘Chiang Kai-shek and the Japanese Ichigo Offensive, 1944’ in L. De Giorgi and G. Samarani (edd.), Chiang Kai-shek and His Time: New Historical and Historiographical Perspectives (Venice, 2017), pp. 37-74.
Thanks, this was exactly what I was looking for. I was a bit disappointed that the B-29 was never committed to CAS, but Chennault did seem to do the best that anyone could with the limited resources available. If you have any information on the efficacy of the B-24 and B-25 CAS sorties on the IJA, that would also be great.
Clearly, American strategy placed a higher emphasis on the bombing of Japan than to the plight of its Chinese ally. Fuel for the Fourteenth Air Force continued to be withheld. Eventually, Chennault’s requests for supplies of up to 10000 tons was accepted in June, but the supplies would not arrive until July. By this point, Chinese forces had already collapsed in Henan, and the Japanese were pushing into Hunan province. The Fourteenth Air Force was committed into Hunan to stop the Japanese advance, with pilots flying three to four sorties per day. Air superiority was achieved, allowing B-25s and B-24s to perform close air support as well as supply interdiction missions. However, with fuel supplies running out in July, air units were unable to support Chinese ground troops fighting in the city of Hengyang. Urgent requests by Chiang Kai-shek and area commander General Xue Yue for 1000 tons of supplies to be airdropped was refused by Marshall. Although a few air drops were attempted, Japanese forces were eventually able to capture Hengyang after a siege of 48 days.
With more supplies and planes arriving in August, Chennault’s air force played an increasingly important role in preventing Japanese advances. In particular, strikes against shipping along the Yellow River, as well as the Beijing-Hankou Railway, created a supply crisis for Japanese forces operating in Central and South China. Despite this, Japanese pushes in Guangdong and Guangxi in October and December could not be stopped by Chinese ground forces, and many important air bases were lost. Still, American air units gave a good account of themselves. Japanese operational records show that both frontline units and supply columns in Guangxi were forced to move at night in order to avoid air attack. On the whole, given their limited resources, American air forces in China during Ichigo did their utmost to support Chinese forces.
X. W. Zhang, Kangri zhanzheng di zhengmian zhanchang \[Frontal Battlefields of the War of Resistance\] (Nanjing, 2015).
G. Q. Peng, Yuanhua kangri di meiguo feihudui \[The American Flying Tigers: Supporting China, Fighting the Japanese\] (Beijing, 2005).
I couldn't find any cases in which B-29s played a CAS role - the bombing campaign against Japan was continued throughout Ichigo, so the B-29s were most likely committed to strategic bombing rather than a CAS role. However, late during Ichigo (Oct/Nov/Dec) B-29s conducted a raid against a major Japanese stockpile in Wuhan/Changsha, which severely dented Japan's ability to resupply its frontline troops.
The B-29 raid is mentioned in either Wang's or Takeshi's chapter on Ichigo in The Battle for China: Essays on the Military History of the Sino-Japanese War of 1937-1945. However, I left my copy in the UK, so I'm not sure on which Chinese city the raid was conducted.
The first week of Ichigo (starting from April 17, when Japanese forces forced a crossing of the Yellow River into Henan province) saw raids on Chinese airfields by Japanese air forces, which limited the response of both Chinese and American air units. It wasn't until 28 April that the first Allied bombing raid was conducted the 308th Bombardment Group (Heavy) under Colonel James C. Awick (not completely sure about the translation of the name, comes from Chinese 阿威克). Flying 27 B-24s, and escorted by 10 P-51s of the 23rd Fighter Group (still known as the Flying Tigers to this day), the formation bombed the Japanese-controlled bridge across the Yellow River. Counter-strikes against Japanese airfields occurred in May, with 14 B-25s, 19 P-40s, 12 P-38s, and 9 P-51s conducting a major raid on the Hankou airfield. Intercepted by Japanese air units mid-raid, Allied pilots reported the downing of more than 20 Japanese planes in dogfights.
P-40s took on CAS missions in the China theatre. CAS missions near Luoyang and Zhengzhou in May and June by P-40s saw the destruction of tanks, truck columns and trains, mainly through dive-bombing. As the fighting shifted to Henyang and Chnagsha, P-40s conducted strafing runs on Japanese columns. Air superiority missions, including patrols and airfield raids, were mostly carried out by P-40s and P-51s. On the other hand, B-24s and B-25s focused on supply interdiction, attacking enemy infrastructure and supply points. In July, 3 B-25s of the Chinese-American Composite Wing conducted a rare low-altitude bombing mission on the Yellow River bridge. Carrying three 1000-pound bombs each, only one B-25 managed to break through, with all three bombs hitting the bridge, creating a gap of more than twenty metres that took the Japanese two months to repair. A bombing raid on Wuhan by 10 B-24s on September 22 resulted in the destruction of the central ammunition dump. 20% of the ammunition and 15% of the fuel stored in Wuhan was lost on one day.
B-29s were responsible for long-range bombing on strategic sites in both Japan and China. On 29 July, B-29s attacked iron ore factories in Anshan and Dalian. This was the first Allied air raid on Japanese-occupied Manchuria since the start of the Second Sino-Japanese War. The aforementioned attack on Hankou airfield by 77 B-29s in 18 December seems to be the only case in which B-29s were directed against enemy troop concentrations rather than strategic targets. When both Chennault and Chiang requested the assistance of the Twentieth Air Force's B-29s in attacking troop concentrations and supply depots in Wuhan earlier in June, this was rejected by the commander of the Twentieth, General Henry H. Arnold, who explicitly stated his mission was the strategic bombing of Japan.
Allied air units achieved air superiority over combat areas, with Japanese aircraft forced to operate only during the twenty minutes between dawn and sunset. A Japanese report records the appearance of Allied aircraft on an average of 115 per day, leading to the destruction of 52 motorised vehicles per day. It seems both CAS and interdiction missions were quite efficient during Ichigo, despite conflicts with with strategic air formations for fuel supplies.
Xue, F. T., Zhongguo kongjun kangzhan shi \[The History of the Chinese Air Force in the War of Resistance\] (Chengdu, 2000).