The call on both sides for Eisenhower was caused by his stance, as he did not show any sign of political movement, not even a simple word of support for any of the sides; he was a military general, and to quote Eisenhower himself:
This particular ment was made in a meeting with Douglas S. Freeman, a biographer for Washinon and Lee, in a responce to Freeman's urge to Eisenhower that he should 'clean up the mess in Washinon.' But still, Eisenhower did not resent politics itself; he had a republican root, and saw presidency as another form of duty that a man can do for a country.
The movement for encouraging Eisenhower as president dates as early to 1942, and at 1948 even Truman encouraged Eisenhower to run for presidency under support of him, of course at Democratic party; the general replied with a laugh and a decline. And this kind of offers came toward Eisenhower from both sides in continous manner; and such offer and support came not only from political spectrum, but also from so-called 'Grassroots'. He kept the buoyant view on involvement in politics until 1952 June, where he began his political movement.
Interesting factor about Eisenhower's run for presidency was that even in 1951 June, americans did not knew well about even his basic political viewpoint. Poll made by Gallup show 40% of democrats wanted him as president, and 33% of republicans the same. Eisenhower did not made any official political statements until then, except: He Might, not will, run for presidency if nominated-which was not even quoted by himself directly.
Still, a republican senator Henry C. Lodge Jr. Made a flight to Europe to meet Eisenhower who was on work as supereme commander of NATO, and got assured he was a republican; Lodge then just registered his name on New Hamphshire republican primary, Without his acceptance. And starting from the victory in New Hamphshire, Eisenhower's mind began to settle for presidency, as he was moved by such support from the public, and as his own political agenda showed that only he himself was the answer for, as mentioned far above, 'mess in Washinon': he thought that reformation was needed to reset and improvise all mistakes Truman made, which was unfavorable for a democrat; the leading republican candidate except him, Robert A. Taft Sr., voted against NATO and kept an isolationismic view, which Eisenhower can never negotiate about.
Thus, after his resignation in June 2nd, he began his official political carrier beginning by a speech in Abilene, his home town, in June 5. He won the president election in massive support.
- Truman lost the support of a large faction of his own party -- the southern Democrats. Truman supported the addition of a civil rights plank to the party platform, a position that was vehemently opposed by southern Democrats and led to the delegations of some southern states to hold a walkout at the party convention. This erosion of support within his own party contributed to lower favorability ratings.
In the view of voters, it is very hard to tell what actually motivated them to vote for Eisenhower: it might be just pure name-value of the great general, or a distrust for Truman, who reached the approval rate of 22% in 1952.
One research suggests that a turn from major metropolitan cities to conservative/republican side, was by the anxiety and fury from the stalemate of Korean war and the trustfulness which Eisenhower had; regardless of what he said in campaign, which was often vague and even against some voter's common sense.
As the Courier-Journal opposing Eisenhower observed: 'Millions of troubled Americans felt in him a quality they trusted. What he had said in the campaign was far less important than what he had done before and what he had been.'.
"God forbid! I'm Chief of Staff of this Army. I've got a particular job to do for America. I cannot do it as it should be done if any man at the Capitol thinks I have any political ambitions.".
- The Korean War had become a bloody stalemate since about mid-1951. Republicans hammered Truman on the war, and accused him of botching the entire effort. With a war of attrition ongoing with no clear end in sight, Truman's popularity suffered as a result.
Furthermore, the corruption scandal which Truman administration had in its final days made even the democrats enraged, and inflation with high tax rate also made dissaproval for Truman-supported democratic candidate; the slogan for Eisenhower's campaign was 'Time for a change', which fitted well with the common sensus about Truman's system.
I am no expert in American political history or political research, yet I hope this made up some of the answers. My reference is a bit weak due to my ignorance of the topic, so any backup would be just wonderful.