Regardless of whether you eat the bills or attempt to get the dog's owner to pay - report this to the police. They will probably refer you to either the sheriff or animal control, depending on your exact address but you also need to report it to whichever agency you are referred to.
Too often people do not report bites to the authorities so there is no official record. Then when the next bite is serious or fatal, the official record appears as if it's the first time the dog has bitten and little to nothing is done. You want this bite on the record now so that when (not if, these things almost always escalate) this dog bites someone else or someone else's dog, the authorities have a record of this first incident and will know to treat it as a repeat offense.
Whether or not it's successful, it means the insurer will be going after the nice neighbor to pay and that's what OP appears to be trying to avoid. Just wanted to point out to OP that if he's trying to keep the neighbor out of it, having his own insurance initially cover the expenses won't work because they'll turn around and go after the neighbor and the dog owner.
Subrogation means that your insurance company will attempt to force the other person's insurance company to cover any deductibles you have. The other will usually pay when there's ample evidence that they're entirely at fault.
However, the other insurance company is under no obligation to do so. And if they feel that you're somehow responsible, they may not pay any of it. The other insurance company is going to weigh the odds of you (1) suing your neighbor and (2) winning the full amount in court against the cost of just paying you. They may decide you're unlikely to sue, or they may feel their odds of winning in small claims are strong, or they may simply decide they don't want to do anything without a judgement.
What usually happens when subrogation is unsuccessful is that your insurance company will cover your deductible at first, but later will demand repayment of the deductible.
You'll have no problem filing a claim with your own insurance, assuming you have coverage for this. The risk is that your deductible remains uncovered. You should assume that it won't be covered and that you'll need to pay out of pocket (that is, if your damages were $5000 and your deductible is $1000, your insurance company would write you a check for $4000). That way, if subrogation is successful, you're ahead of the game.
Yes -- in theory. Subrogation isn't always successful, so I would assume OP will have to pay. If subrogation is successful, then it's a nice surprise.
Can you expand on what you mean by successful means in this case? The insurance company being successful in getting their money back, or me being successful in filing a claim?
Joint liability does not mean you have to sue both always. You could sue the owner/son without suing the custodian/neighbor.
Specifically, Minnesota law 347.22 regarding dog bites says that anyone harboring or keeping the dog is part of the definition for "owner" "but the owner shall be primarily liable". Sue the owner. He can sue his mother for any part she's liable for.