I defended a postgraduate thesis in art history on postapocalyptic film, so I did some research into the popular idea of survivalism, and the reflection of this idea on society. That overview was far from historically thorough or reaching long in the past, because I was primarily concerned with how postapocalyptic fiction came to be — and that is a recent phenomenon.
On the other hand, your question is similar to the theme of my research, in that most scholarly interest is in apocalyptic, eschatological scenarios — the world coming to an end, and the divine procedure afterwards. That last part is probably the reason why I found very sparse results for how people imagined "life after the end": they mostly didn't. The end of the world, as you note, was not secular; it did not suggest that people would be left to their own devices in an empty or broken world. We humans would be dealt with by higher powers, one way or another.
When did it take hold in people's minds? Many authors state that one of the first postapocalyptic fiction pieces was The Last Man by Mary Shelley. If you read its synopsis (as I admit to doing; it's a long, sentimental melodrama as much as anything), it seems that Shelley basically wrote The Walking Dead, World War Z, or any other modern zombie apocalypse story — but in 1826. So, a plague sweeps through the world, and nations break down in lurid detail. An apocalyptic cult leader rules Paris from the catacombs; British Lord Protector dies lying on top of heaps of provisions; frenzied American refugees invade Scotland; survivors flee north, where the virus can't thrive; some spend their last months in the Swiss Alps; and the last four .
So, as far as I could ascertain, the idea of a secular end, of civilization collapse, is a very modern one, since it has to go against the vast tradition of religious eschatology, and also a number of other fundamental beliefs that I'll touch on below.
I'm describing these amusing parallels in such detail because you might think that Shelley's contemporaries may have been impressed with her imagination. They may have shared her romantic disillusion with humanist ideals (just like we enjoy looking at people turning into survivors and/or bastards in zombie movies today); after all, it was her husband who wrote the ominous Ozymandias Together with the memory of huge Napoleonic wars (or, perhaps, the experience of Europe-wide revolts a bit later, in 1848?) this epic should have sparked a disillusioned prepper movement all right.
But the fact is, the novel struck Mary Shelley's contemporaries as fanciful drivel, a bizarre fantasy. Critics specifically chided the author for "foolish cruelty" and "sick imagination" of the apocalyptic sections (cited in reverse translation so may be imprecise). It would be a huge generalization to try an explain why (and Shelley being a woman might have been a large one), but I would propose that people then did not yet think globally; they could not put the entire human civilization, as an entity, in the scope of their mental models of the future. They simply didn't think that humanity could be so interconnected as to break down everywhere, and for good. Also, people until very recently did not perceive the world (Earth) as something that could actually be broken or even significantly altered by humans. It was not our decision what happens after the apocalypse — and likewise it was also not our job to break the world in the first place. In any case, people were so unimpressed with this novel that it was completely forgotten, and only rediscovered by Shelley scholars in the 1960s.
This is all to illustrate that even though I can't say with certainty that there were no actual preppers and survivalists before 1945, I have a strong suspicion based on my research that there weren't. To give another example, there was , imagining how the world would look if most people would suddenly perish. It was called After London, depicted the life of survivors who turned to more natural and archaic lifestyle, and described in detail the overgrown and dilapidated London and empty British countryside. The title and plot all sound extremely interesting and , but the novel made little impression and was regarded as an eccentric, philosophical thought experiment by an otherwise solid writer.
Another famous example of pre-atomic postapocalyptic fiction that didn't spark a survivalism movement is The Shape of Things to Come (1933) by H. G. Wells, adapted for screen as Things to Come in 1936. It's a very interesting and quite modern piece of speculative fiction; but the important part for us is that it also doesn't leave space for a survivalist fantasy. Its version of civilization collapse is a total, unending war that grinds humanity to the nub (unsurprising: WWI just ended). Its tribes of postapocalyptic survivors are people who simply kept living in the same bombed-out houses in the same bombed-out cities, just having it worse and worse with time.
A) really started thinking in terms of humanity completely destroying itself (and possibly the planet) in one go, at any moment, without any sense or reason; and.
B) started fantasizing how they could prepare for this meaningless, abrupt, total collapse, without relying on anything or anyone, morally or materially, on principle.
- the reveal of atomic bomb and subsequent Cold War introduced people to means of arbitrary, abrupt self-destruction that is in the hands of completely unknown distant people, and is impossible to predict or protect against;.
- rapid scientific progress and its press coverage introduced several dozen more ways of how humanity could destroy itself — via ecological catastrophe, chemical or biological disasters/weapons, rapid global plagues, physical phenomena like Ice Nine, and, lately, nanorobots, AI, and global warming. It's what one scholar calls a "serial apocalypse" model: you learn about a new way you could die without provocation every day!
- other sociological, cultural, and practical factors that all converged to make complete, isolated, off-grid independence both a possibility and a desired outcome (e. g. the notion you want to run away from the crazy noise and race of the world, the suspicion you are manipulated constantly, wonderful new consumer products that allow a hermit to live in comfort etc.). Depiction of such survivalism in media (starting with rather gritty and down-to-earth sci-fi novels in the 1950s) was certainly a part of these reasons, too!
In the end, I'm pretty certain that the popular notion of impending (and unpredictable! that's important, it can arrive at any minute) collapse of all civilization is a very modern thing, and is firmly tied to the post-WWII convergence of factors.
Which means that, even though I didn't research the history of actual preppers themselves, I think you can look for them among people whose thoughts ran similarly to the plot of such novels as Alas, Babylon (1959), Earth Abides (1949), or Shadow on the Hearth (1950); or the movie Five (1951). The former two depict the "good" part of survivalism: the enterprising American spirit, pluck and integrity before adversity. The latter two depict the negative: a housewife with children struggling to survive in a new world; a group of survivors stripped of their wealth and profession, who reveal their vileness in the absence of law. Both positive and negative seemed to have fed heavily into the myth of the prepper: one who believes in standing completely on his own like a hermit, and who actively distrusts any group of people larger than one (or, at most, his nuclear family). Of course this topic is way wider and more interesting, and I mostly covered the "idea" side of it, not the factual info about real-life preppers. But, well, your question is pretty sweeping as well. Hope this helps.
Thank you for this. Did you research European history only for this or did you go broader? I ask because your examples seem to be focused that way and I wonder if native americans, who seemed to have a massive decline due to disease europeans brought, might have had more 'end of the world' works.
For sources, I'll note that I mostly pieced my arguments and overviews together from scraps and reference, plus Russian papers. So my reading list is not super helpful. But wikipedians collected of postapocalyptic . Also, maybe the word CONELRAD will help seach for early survivalism culture. I'll copy some of the things I found from my paper: