It's often difficult to explain ancient jokes and there will be different explanations for this one. The basic elements are pretty standard fare for Greek comedy: donkeys are stupid and stubborn, figs are commonly used as a slang term for female genitalia, and unmixed wine - the drink of barbarians - is a great recipe for comedic chaos. The word used for fig in the relevant passage (Diogenes Laertius 7.185) is indeed the word that is often used to mean, essentially, pussy. But that doesn't seem to be the joke here.
Rather, these three elements have something in common. They are all symbols of Dionysos, the god of drunken revelry. Donkeys and figs are associated with him - in the case of figs, the reason should be obvious - and nothing could be more Dionysian than unmixed wine.
Greeks would normally mix their wine with water and honey during their drinking partes; one of the things the guests decided at the beginning of the night was how many parts water to mix with the wine. Drinking wine pure was thought to be the practice of wild barbarians who did not know the Greek virtue of self-control. Some Greeks believed that drinking wine pure would make you go insane. But that, of course, was exactly the point of Dionysos: he was the personification of the uncontrolled party, the wild rave, the mad dances of his female worshippers (the maenads) and the orgies of his lusty mythological companions, the satyrs and nymphs.
In other words, Chrysippos saw two things that reminded him of Dionysos, and saw immediately that a third thing could complete the picture so perfectly that Dionysos himself might just have to pop down from Olympos to give him a round of applause. Donkey + fig: funny. Donkey + fig + unmixed wine: what would be the odds?
What approximate alcohol by volume would the wine be that they were drinking? Are we talking 12-14% like modern wine, or would it be closer to spirits if they were diluting it?
If you wanted a modern equivalent, though without the same religious dimension, it might be something like seeing a priest and a rabbi walk into a bar, and asking them if their friend the imam was late.
If I remember correctly, Mary Beard in her work on ancient jokes said that the donkey didn't just eat any figs, but figs prepared for Chrysippos. In other words, the donkey was eating human food. She compared it to a few generations ago when "chimpanzee tea parties" were held at London Zoo. People laughed to see chimps behaving like humans - or not behaving like humans - at a very human event.
Side question: was worship of Dionysus practiced by women exclusively? Were there men who took part in worshiping Dionysus/the Dionysian Mysteries?