A POA is authority granted by a Principal to an Agent so the Agent can act for and on behalf of the Principal. It terminates at death.
That's the strange thing. Court hasn't been involved and as far as I'm aware no one has been appointed to handle it... like I just don't understand unless she was defaulted as such.
So when you are contacting the Wife and asking for a POA, you are asking Wife to give you authority to handle her affairs, not Dad's.
All of Dad's affairs are now the concern of his Estate, and can only be handled by the administrator of his Estate.
The fact that Dad was married at the time would indicate that Wife has the first right to administer the estate. She does that by petitioning the court to appoint her as the administrator. If she doesn't want to do that, you can.
I don't know how to get appointed the executor , I've just been acting as it as far as all his medical decisions and such. Only issue I had was when I was getting him cremated I had to have her sign over right to that. Other than that I've made all decisions on his behalf because he was brain dead.
My question, does someone need to do that or can I just go and handle all of this without anything from her since I know she didn't go to the courts and appoint herself executor?
Depending on your state, it's entirely possible that "legal separation" was sufficient to terminate joint ownership of assets, and instead deem the assets held as individuals, and thus passing to kids. If you aren't in a state that does that, it likely that she's entitled to everything.
And yeah Kentucky is a state that says if someone abandoned their spouse or cheated (she did both) then they relinquish all rights to any estate or enheritance.
Because she legally has authority to all of his belongings, bank accounts, vehicles, checks, etc. I can't cash his last check or do anything with his accounts without PROOF of being next of kin.
She does not have legal authority to handle any of his accounts, unless she is a joint account holder. Only the person appointed by a court to represent the estate has that authority.
Probate is the official process for handing a deceased person's assets. It's run throught the courts. It looks like the Kentucky courts have published a self help guide. A person gets appointed executor/administrator and sorts out the property and files paperwork showing what happened to it back to the court. It's common for a child to be the executor.
Once your father passed, his assets need to be handled this way. You cannot have a POA on behalf of a deceased person, and his wife can only issue a POA for herself, which isn't what you need here.
His wife would need to sign a form agreeing to your being appointed as the personal representative of the estate, unless you are named in the will as executor..
Once you are appointed, you have the right to handle and control all estate assets, pay bills, sell property, whatever is needed to complete probate. No additional POA is required.
I live 8 hours away from the state he did because my husband is active duty. How can I do this when I'm so far away ?
It's a messy situation. His vehicles were never transferred to his name , he had no estates . No assets. Etc. All he has is possible bank accounts a check and an old ass truck that I'm trying to figure out what to do with without a title.
If the estate is very small, there is usually a simplified process for doing probate, but someone still has to be in charge.
The petition has to be done in the county where he lived at the time of death. You may want to hire a probate attorney who practices in that county to represent you the attorney can do a lot of things without your need to be present. Attorney fees are usually paid by the estate.
Since he had no will, Kentucky law determines who his heirs are. His wife inherits 1/2 of his personal property, 1/3 of his real property to use during her life, and 1/2 of her real property to sell or give away. You and any other children inherit inherit 1/2 of his personal property and the remainder of his real property. Those odd numbers alone may mean that hiring an attorney is a good thing.
I'm not even sure I need to do all that anyways since he had such little to start. My main concern is the banks , check and truck.