One possible explanation is that Henry VIII was Kell antigen positive. This is the theory put forward by Catrina Banks Whitley and Kyra Kramer, in their 'A New Explanation for the Reproductive Woes and Midlife Decline of Henry VIII'.
If a Kell-negative woman becomes pregnant by a Kell-positive man, and the foetus is Kell-positive, that first pregnancy will go fine (barring other problems). But it causes the mother to develop Kell alloimmunisation - her body develops antibodies against the Kell antigen, meaning that it will attack any future Kell-positive foetus, leading to miscarriage (often late-term), stillbirth, or death soon after premature birth. If the man is heterozygous for the Kell antigen, some of the couple's pregnancies will be Kell-negative, so they can still have healthy children - but those will be interspersed with an unusually high number of miscarriages and stillbirths.
Henry had six wives and several mistresses, but as far as we know, he only had four children who lived past infancy: Mary, Elizabeth, Edward, and Henry Fitzroy. Of these, three (Elizabeth, Edward, and Henry Fitzroy) were the mother's first pregnancy by Henry.
Let's look at the pattern of live births/miscarriages/stillbirths in Henry's wives. Katherine of Aragon had a stillbirth first. While this wouldn't have been caused by Kell alloimmunisation from Henry, stillbirths can happen for a variety of other causes (she had a bad labour, so the child may have died from lack of oxygen, for example). It's also possible that Katherine, who had previously been married to Henry's brother, had had an unrecognised early miscarriage of a Kell-positive child from that union, and had already developed antibodies to the Kell antigen before she married Henry. Her next child was born healthy - which under this theory would imply that either he or the first child was Kell-negative - but died in infancy, which was far from unusual in Tudor times. Then Katherine had several miscarriages, at least some late-term. After these she had Mary, who lived to adulthood - again, this could have been because she was Kell-negative. Then Katherine had more late-term miscarriages. Some of her babies may in fact have been born alive but died shortly after birth - the records are unclear - which would also fit the pattern of Kell alloimunisation.
Then came Jane Seymour, who had one healthy child - Edward VI - and died from having him. After that, Henry didn't have any more children that we know of.
Henry's next wife was Anne Boleyn. Her first pregnancy was a healthy daughter who turned out to be Elizabeth I. Then she had at least one miscarriage, possibly more, and then Henry executed her.
This isn't in itself proof that Henry was Kell-positive. David Cressy, in Birth, Marriage, and Death: Ritual, Religion, and the Life Cycle in Tudor and Stuart England, says his research indicates that 50% of pregnancies at the time weren't brought to term. Katherine could just have got the rough end of that statistic by pure chance. Even now, though, a high percentage of pregnancies end in miscarriage, but the vast majority of these miscarriages are early ones; a high number of late-term miscarriages, like Katherine's, is unusual. And early neonatal death wasn't as common as you might think: Cressy says that 2% of live newborns died in the first day, and 5% in the first week. Katherine's rate was a whole lot worse than that. Kramer compares her to Henry's sister Margaret, who had eight pregnancies but only two children who lived to adulthood: the majority of Margaret's children, as opposed to Katherine's, were brought to term and survived for at least a few months.
People have suggested various explanations for Henry's transformation, including diabetes, syphilis, and a brain injury from a jousting accident in 1536. All of these theories have flaws, though, and none of them do anything to explain his prior lack of reproductive success. The Kell antigen theory might explain the whole lot.
Again, though, this doesn't necessarily mean Henry was Kell-positive. The factor that made carrying a healthy baby to term so difficult for Katherine could have been something to do with her body rather than Henry's, and Anne's reproductive pattern wasn't as strikingly unusual as Katherine's.
From analysing reproductive patterns among Henry's ancestors, Stride and Lopes Floro think there's a possibility that Jacquetta St Pol, Henry's maternal great-grandmother, was Kell-positive and passed it down to him.
Well, in fairness, he didn't execute them all at once D. Holinshed, writing about 40 years later, estimates that Henry was responsible for around 72,000 executions - which, given an estimated population of 2.1 million for England in 1541, puts his head count at roughly 3.5% of the population. That was over his 37-year reign, though, so an average of roughly 2000 people, or 1 in every 1000 people, per year.
Again, though, this number may very well have been exaggerated. More moderate estimates put it closer to 57,000 people. We're still talking about an average of 1500 people a year, though, so like 1 in every 1400. Which is still well into the 'batshit crazy bloodbath' range.
But. Henry underwent a massive transformation, both physical and mental, in middle age. As a young man he was athletic, sociable, intellectual, and popular - that charismatic all-rounder guy who's the life of the party, the straight-A student and the football star. But sometime in his late thirties, something changed. He started putting on a huge amount of weight, gradually going from a 34-inch waist to a 54-inch one (they can tell by his suits of armour). He also had a painful ulcerated lesion on his leg that refused to heal. And he turned into a complete dick. He became paranoid and tyrannical. He executed a ridiculous number of people - according to Holinshed, who was writing a few decades later and may or may not have been accurate, he executed about 3.5% of the population of England, many in brutally sadistic ways. Before 1535, this had not been his thing at all.
Obviously we'll never know for sure. Dude and his wives could just have been unlucky. But as theories go, this one isn't bad.
Edit again: Ah, COOL. Thank you guys so much for the awards. I'm pretty new to this sub and still nervous about posting anything, so this is very cool.
Wow. I knew he got a little slaphappy with the headsman's axe there towards the middle-and-end bits, but holy crap, three and a half percent of the population? That's a whole 'nother level.