I feel like 85% inflation basically means you are in a failed economy and failed state. I mean what’s the point of working, saving, investing at that point? Other than to meet your basic needs. All trust in the financial system is lost and nobody will want to participate again for a very long time.
If you reach a high enough inflation rate, how do you get people to even work anymore…??? Like 85% inflation means money is becoming quite worthless, and the financial system that is supposed to support the economy is failed.
85% is not close to hyperinflation. Rule of thumb is it needs to be 50% per month which per year is 12,874.63%.
Two years later he sold off the second hand Merc and the currency inflation meant that the money covered the mortgage for the apartment.
I heard a guy on the radio in Turkey say that he bought a second hand Mercedes and an apartment with loans.
I’m not targeting Turkey with my comment here either. Venezuela, Zimbabwae, Lebanon, Sri Lanka, and many other countries today are facing hyperinflationary pressures.
But in all seriousness, Turkey’s rampant inflation and collapsing economy is going to have major implications for the whole world and make other countries and the region less stable.
A large, major industrial nation like Turkey having this kind of economic upheaval?? Bruh there is no way that is going to be contained to just Turkey.
Btw, I’m not Turkish nor having any connection to Turkey in any way shape or form. I’m just tired of the world being in chaos and seeing all this bullshit happen. Nothing good will come from Turkey’s runaway inflation. It is going to spillover and cause more dominos to fall. Idk. Maybe it will start a civil war, maybe another major refugee crisis in the world. But something is gonna break if Turkish leaders don’t start putting out some fires immediately.
Like in my comment I mentioned other countries having rampant inflation too. While they do have global impacts, it is much smaller because these nations are much smaller.