As with any criminal charges, it's up to the police to investigate a suspected crime, and to provide information to a prosecutor who can lay charges. Either of those might decide to drop the issue, or not. There's no one-size-fits-all answer, as self-defence is an intensely fact-specific situation; if you use force in self-defence, you should do so on the basis that you are prepared to go to jail over it.
And to add to that it would be prudent not to answer questions without a lawyer present. The odds are that you are getting booked regardless of your answers and your lawyer can better represent you later without a statement.
The police are not judge or jury. They don't decide if you broke the law or not; they simply investigate suspected crimes. They might choose to arrest you on suspicion of committing a crime as part of their investigation, or they might not; it would depend entirely on far too many factors to enumerate here. If you are arrested, it's your jurisdiction's prosecutor who will determine whether to actually charge you with a crime or not, and they'll make that determination by looking at the evidence the police have gathered and considering the likelihood of a conviction based on that. Most prosecutors have little desire to waste time prosecuting cases where there is little or no chance of a conviction, so if the evidence is strongly in favor of your innocence, they might decide to drop the case.
Self-defense is typically an affirmative defense; that is, you are admitting that you committed the illegal act you've been accused of (killing a person), but that your actions were not actually illegal because of some sort of extenuating circumstances (in this case, because your actions were reasonably necessary to defend your life or the life of another and were therefore permissible under the law in your jurisdiction).
As with any interaction with the police where there is any chance you might be considered a suspect in any way, your best bet is to invoke your right to remain silent until you've spoken to your lawyer and then do exactly what your lawyer tells you to do. If you try to plead your innocence to the police, there is a very good chance you will unknowingly incriminate yourself.
Perhaps, but that involves said lawyer actually defending you in a murder trial. In a genuine case of clearly legal self-defense, the far more likely outcome would be that you'll talk to your lawyer and explain the situation to them, your lawyer will explain the situation to the police, the police will decide not to submit your case to the prosecutor based on the evidence, and you'll be billed for a few hours of your lawyer's time. If your situation is questionable enough that the police and local prosecutor decide to move forward with a case even after your lawyer has talked to them, then there is absolutely no chance that you would have been able to explain your way out of being arrested and charged on your own with no legal representation. You gain nothing by talking to the police without legal counsel, and you risk giving them evidence to use against you in an eventual court case.