There are at least two reasons why this is the case, both have to do with the design of political institutions in the US, which make it very hard to advance workers' interests. Specifically, these are first past the post electoral system and super-majoritarian institutions with multiple veto points.
1.Generally, workers' interests are promoted by class-based parties of the left, which fare better under proportional representation (PR) compared to first past the post as in the US. (Notice how most countries in Scandinavia and Continental Europe have PR). This is because under first past the post voters' interests can be aggregated along multiple location-based criteria, and social class is only one of them. You need to have electoral districts segregated by class in order for left-wing parties to strive under first past the post (which was not the case in the US).
In "Bringing the state back in" (1985) Ira Katznelson illustrates this for the 19th century US:"American participatory federalism was not just a system of voting based on intensely local solidarities. It was also a system of governance, taxation, and delivery of services. During the antebellum years in the cities, where the bulk of working people lived, municipal services provided the main content of a local politics of patronage and distribution. This period saw the introduction of professional police forces, the bureaucratization of municipal charity and poor relief, and the establishment of mass public school systems, as well as a massive program of publicly licensed construction. Political parties focused on the connections between these services and the various neighborhoods of the city. Local politics became a segmented and distributive politics of community. In this politics, workers appeared in the political arena not as workers but as residents of a specific place or as members of a specific (nonclass) group.".
2. Another reason why workers' rights are so limited has to do with super-majoritarian features of the US democracy, which make any brand of progressive politics difficult and protect the status quo. In short, because there are a lot of veto players that can block a particular piece of legislation (House of Representatives, Senate, Supreme Court, State legislatures), you often need more than a simple majority of voters supporting a decision in order for it to pass. Adam Przeworski explores this in Democracy and the Limits of Self-Government (2010), with a specific focus on the US.
Madison argued that factions cannot be eliminated, hence the effects of factionalism should be controlled. And this could be achieved by designing legislatures, which would "refine and enlarge the public views, by passing them through the medium of a chosen body of citizens, whose wisdom may best discern the true interest of their country, and whose patriotism and love of justice will be least likely to sacrifice it to temporary or partial considerations." i.e. it should be very difficult to advance the interest of one specific group of people.
Federalist 10 is also very specific in what constitutes a faction. Madison writes that "the most common and durable source of factions has been the various and unequal distribution of property. Those who hold and those who are without property have ever formed distinct interests in society." - this is essentially a Marxist definition of class (although since this was written in a predominantly agrarian country in 1787, it is unlikely that he had workers in mind). Hence, whilst Madison was clearly opposed to various forms of "factionalism", the system that he argued for clearly makes it difficult to articulate organised labour interests in particular.
These super-majoritarian institutions, arguably, were a direct intention of the Founding Fathers. For example, in Federalist 10 Madison argued against "factionalism", defining faction as "number of citizens, whether amounting to a majority or minority of the whole, who are united and actuated by some common impulse of passion, or of interest, adverse to the rights of other citizens, or to the permanent and aggregate interests of the community".
The only western countries that actually use First Past the Post are the US, Canada and the UK.The UK's two largest parties are the Conservative Party and the Labour party (a party heavily linked to the unions and started with the express interest of defending workers' rights, which first achieved a majority of seats in 1929 after the General Strike by workers). While in the mid-90s to 2000s it's fair to say that Labour drifted away from its more radical ideas, it has historically given the UK stronger worker protections than the USA.Canada does not have a Labour party as one of the main two parties, but my impression is workers' protections are better than in the US (though I don't know, and would like to hear from someone on that).
While I know this question was about western countries, India uses FPP, and is a country where unions, workers representatives and socialists (and communists) have often had quite a lot of influence. While rights vary, and of course the country is poor compared to western countries limiting what workers can expect, generally governments have, I believe, tried to promote workers' rights.
France doesn't use FPP, but they do use single-member constituencies, not PR (it's just that after your first vote, if no-one won a majority in the constituency, you can vote again between just the parties that got a large vote; it's still much closer to FPP than PR). This, as you'd expect, led to a 2-party system; the Republicans and the Socialists. The Socialists, of course, were very keen on workers' rights, and France famously has much stronger worker protections than the US, and an influential union sector.
It does seem that FPP or similar systems do tend to lead to a system with only two very influential parties (while Britain has about 10 parties in parliament, for most of the last 100 years only 2 really mattered electorally). However, outside North America it's generally been the case that one of the two parties is a workers' or socialist party. In North America, on the other hand, the two main parties do not include a workers' or socialist party.(Though I should say I don't know a lot about Canadian politics; perhaps a Canadian will chime in to say that unions and socialists have a lot of influence on the Liberal Party?)You may well be right about the way 19th century US politicians divided workers' votes up in cities. My point is simply that I don't think FPP is a great explanation for the USA's lack of a strong workers' rights party.
While your second point may well be true, the first seems dubious? Or at least, the very beginning of it, about the electoral system. The point about parties fighting for workers votes along other lines may be true.
New Zealand used FPP until 1996 (and now uses a mixed system, not PR). The two largest parties are the National Party and the Labour Party, again a party founded to defend workers rights, and one which, while not radically socialist, has given NZ stronger worker protections than the US.
I certainly agree with your point that there are differences within the group of countries with FPP, but we need to separate the two points.
My point was mainly about the differences between PR and FPP. FPP certainly tends to produce more right-wing governments. (2006) show that in 17 advanced democracies between 1945 and 1998, among the countries with PR the ratio of right to left-wing governments, was 0.26 (i.e. more left-wing), whereas among the countries with FPP it was 0.75 (i.e. more right-wing).
This definitely makes sense. The Chartists, for example, failed in achieving their aims of gaining voting and other rights for workers, but were very succesful at building class consciousness.
On the differences between PR and FPP: FPP tends to produce fewer parties in power and often features two-party systems. Under PR you can have multiple parties in power forming coalitions. Even if workers'/left-wing parties do not command the majority of votes, they can still be elected under PR and form part of a coalition with other parties, thereby advancing workers' interests (see this argument in the context of welfare state development ). The same is not possible under FPP. You need workers vs capitalists to be the main political cleavage along which the party system would be structured, and working classes have to be grouped together in certain localities in order for workers' party to be successful, which is not always the case. There may be other salient issues: religion, race/ethnicity, centre-periphery, etc which prevent this. This is why, on average, PR will be better for workers' interests.