Apostrophe separating the consonant and vowel indicates that the consonant is not "softened" by the vowel as it normally would be, as well as forces a separation of two sounds. Ukrainian ' is equivalent to "ъ" - "hard sign" used in russian.
That’s how the apostrophe is used in written Ukrainian itself, but in Latin transliteration it’s a somewhat confusing mix: in the transliteration “Kup’yan’sk” (for Куп'янськ), the first apostrophe indicates that there is a distinct “y” sound after the “p” (not just palatalization on the “p”), and the second indicates that the “n” is palatalized.
Russian does not have the fricative corresponding to English H. Ukrainian does have this sound but represents it with the equivalent of G (due to a sound shift.) Some other languages using Cyrillic use a custom character for the sound.
Ukraine continues to successfully probe for and exploit weaknesses in Russian defenses all along the front line.
Russia continues to eat glue and concentrate on the conveyor to the Bakhmut meat grinder. It didn't work yesterday and it didn't work last week and it didn't work last month or the month before, but maybe it'll work tomorrow!
I'm sure the man will turn out to be a cook / driver / orderly and the badge just stuck onto his jacket as he was squeezing through a tight space.
Ukrainian video showing a surrendered Russian recon unit with the vaunted Bat badge. Spetznaz GRU does not often surrender.
For once I agree with Girkin. Wagner is cancer and they commit widespread abuses everywhere they go.
People die natural deaths even in Putin's Russia sometimes. Chain-smoking alcoholics in a macho culture that sees going to the doctor as weakness don't have the highest life expectancy.
Serbs have dusted off the old handbook and are screaming about Serbs being oh-so-abused in Kosovo, all because of car licence plates don't you know. Forcing Serbs to drive a car that says "Kosovo" on it is genocide, literally in the Geneva convention, murder, rape, license plates.
Serbia is Russia's alter ego and the one major ally, so they're likely just going with the times. Given how terrible Putin's goons are at everything it's a safe bet this wasn't some masterful 5D chess play. But they're not too stupid not to capitalize on it. Serbs have started screeching about Kosovo plotting terrorist attacks, and that is something Putin has tons of experience with.
Either way, Russia's influence is all but gone. If Serbia didn't try aggressive negotiations now they'd lose everything from their insane imperial wishlist anyway. They're desperate, and desperate losers are capable of anything. If they want to burn their country instead of being allowed into the EU, well, not much anyone can do to stop them.
Africa is their get-out-of-Bakhmut-free card, a cash machine vacation. Ukraine is a lot better equipped to kill these bastards. If only all of Wagner had but one neck.