The likelihood of this being actionable is probably low. Firstly, you don’t note whether this is a public or private institution. Some of the requirements and processes may vary, but in either case they likely were under no requirement to let you attend classes online if those classes were scheduled as in person. You don’t mention what accommodations they offered, but typically if a student finds themselves no longer able to participate in their program due to medical reasons a school will allow them to take medical leave that essentially hits pause on their course. You don’t state whether this was an option offered to you, but again the point is they likely were under no requirement to offer online instruction for courses they had not planned to offer it for.
It sucks royally that you had all these health complications, but higher Ed institutions aren’t obligated to provide you the same accommodations a high school would be.
Regarding the Pell Grant and other financial aid- eligibility is determined by the federal government through your FAFSA application. You don’t state why it was not awarded, but generally you would not have any appeal to the school for it not being awarded. They are only given the funds related to Pell Grants and other federal aid for students that currently qualify based on FAFSA applications for the year. If your eligibility was compromised and they didn’t receive funding for your aid, they would be under no obligation to make it up nor do they really have a way to appeal your eligibility. If you were deemed eligible by the government and they are refusing to disburse the funds to you that would be an entirely different kettle of fish.
Was your appeal for failure to meet Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) standards? Most universities have an appeal process for that that is final once you've gone through it. Did they tell you why you were denied? I'd call and speak to someone in the office that handled the appeal and get some answers. It would help you to know the actual basis for your denial - they can't just pull a reason out of think air, it needs to be based in the law and their guidelines. You could reach out to your school's ombuds office and see if they're able to get you some answers if you don't have luck on your own.
If you're unable to get your Pell Grant reinstated right now you might be able to in the future depending on your SAP progress, so keep an eye on it. Also, try looking in the area you live for community foundations -- they usually have scholarship programs for students from/in the area.