As a tenant you have a right to a reasonable expectation of privacy, regardless of what’s written in the lease.
Landlord cannot, for example, install a surveillance cameras in your bedroom even if it was written in the lease that they’re allowed to put camera anywhere on the property.
I can’t imagine her getting any court to agree that she has the right to go through your personal computer.
Unless the lease explicitly mentions that Internet service will be provided. The internet service is hers and she is only letting you use it as a courtesy. In which case she doesn’t have to let you use it, and if she is letting you use is, she does have the right to monitor its use at their router. I.e. she can’t go through your computers browsing history, but if the router has a feature to do so (which the vast majority of home routers do not), she is likely within her rights to examine the logs and see which computers are connecting to which websites. As well as block pornography sites.
I’m not a lawyer, I’m an IT person, I do recommend that you use a VPN as it makes it impossible anyone to tell what your connecting to, or what your doing. When you use a VPN the only thing she would see the logs is that you did connect to the VPN itself.
As for the internet, if it isn’t mentioned in the lease that she will provide internet for you, there’s always the risk that she will end up blocking you from accessing it outright, which would be within’ her rights if internet access is guaranteed in writing.
The “House Rules” clause in your lease is likely unenforceable. In general such a clause would need to typically include a codification of the rules, and the rules would generally need to be deemed “reasonable” though you need to specifically talk to a lawyer to know for sure, we can’t comment from here without knowing the exact wording and your location.
You most definitely shouldn’t allow her access to your personal belongings, such as your PC, and most definitely shouldn’t allow her to access your browser history.
Third - if you are paying for internet, she isn't allowed to cut it off between 12-9 just because she wants to keep her kid off it. That's her problem, not yours. Tell her it needs to be completely accessible, as it is literally in the lease.
I’d start by checking your lease and seeing what it says, then go from there. I honestly wouldn’t even play nice with her and let her have access to my personal belongings, I would immediately start looking for a new place, if she won’t honor your privacy and continue let you using internet that is.
Fourth - all emotional stuff aside, for legal reasons I would curtail birds and bees conversations with minor children.