Evocative though it might be to imagine dark-cloaked cultists performing unspeakable sacrifices in moonlit groves, there is little evidence for Greek worship of Thanatos (or for that matter, of his Roman counterpart Mors).
Thanks largely to the famous scene in the Iliad in which he and his brother Hypnos (Sleep) bear away the body of Sarpedon, Thanatos appears with some frequency in Classical vase paintings, typically as an armored man with wings (). He is a main character of Euripides' tragedy Alecestis, in which he is represented as a somber black-cloaked figure with a sword (rather less impressively, he is then caught and pummeled by Hercules).
In Alcestis, Hercules catches Thanatos as he is drinking the blood of sacrificed animals. Most Greek gods, of course, were not in the habit of guzzling blood (ambrosia and nectar tasted much better); but if this is not just Euripides' way of alluding to the fact that Thanatos consumes mortal life, or an allusion to the way the dead behave in the Odyssey, this passage might suggest a tradition of graveside sacrifices.
"For, alone of gods, Thanatos (Death) loves not gifts; no, not by sacrifice, nor by libation, canst thou aught avail with him; he hath no altar nor hath he hymn of praise; from him, alone of gods, Peitho (Persuasion) stands aloof.".
Or maybe Thanatos was just scavenging some other god's meat. Typically, as a fragment from a lost tragedy of Aeschylus notes, the Greeks did not sacrifice to the god of death:
In other words, Thanatos wasn't worth worshiping, since he couldn't - or wouldn't - do anything for you if he did. He only showed up to kill you. This is in contrast to Hades, who had a broader sphere of responsibilities, and could so be productively worshiped, for example, as a giver of wealth (because gold and other shiny things came from underground) or fertility (because crops send roots under the earth). Hades, incidentally, even had his own oracle (the Oracle of the Dead in Thesprotia, where suppliants consulted ghosts).
There are, however, a few references to the worship of Thanatos. The second-century antiquarian Pausanias mentions a temple in Sparta with images of Aphrodite Ambologera (Postponer of Old Age), Hypnos, and Thanatos (3.18.1). He says nothing, however, about whether these images received cultic honors.
Perhaps the most interesting evidence that Thanatos was worshiped more widely is the Orphic Hymn to Thanatos, probably composed in the third century CE. Like the other Orphic Hymns, this reflects a mystical strain in Greek religion, which existed alongside the more familiar civic-centered ceremonies of public cult. Here, and here alone in Greek literature, Thanatos is addressed like any other Greek god, as a source of possible benefits:
The third-century sophist Philostratus notes in passing that the inhabitants of the Spanish city of Gadira "are excessively religious; so much so that they have set up an altar to Geras (Old Age), and unlike any other race they sing hymns in honor of Thanatos." (VA 5.4).
"Hear me, O Thanatos (Death), whose empire unconfined extends to mortal tribes of every kind. On thee the portion of our time depends....etc., etc.,...O blessed power, regard my ardent prayer, and human life to age abundant spare".
Unsurprisingly, the worshiper is asking Thanatos for the only favor he was capable of granting: staying away.
Not OP but just wanted to commend you for this highly informative and almost shockingly readable reply. Mythology has always been my fatal flaw (_hamartia_?) playing along at home with _Jeopardy!_, and I think you might've finally sparked my interest. Any book recs?
Glad you enjoyed it! Orphism is really a blanket term for a loosely-associated set of individual-centered religious practices that existed alongside the more familiar public cults. Although the mythical figure of Orpheus himself was associated with Thrace, Orphism seems to have flourished throughout Greece.
I'm pleased to hear that - and happy to report that many of the primary sources for Greek myth are themselves very readable.
Probably the most engaging introduction is Philip Matyszak's The Greek and Roman Myths: A Guide to the Classical Stories. You might also check out Trzaskoma, Smith, and Brunet's Anthology Of Classical Myth, which assembles a nice selection of primary sources.
Gotcha, that makes a lot of sense The idea that in their worship they might just kinda gloss over all that important stuff just tickled me, so I wanted to make sure. Thanks so much for your fascinating answer.
For your benefit. It is a habit of Greek hymns to define exactingly (a) the god you're addressing and (b) what you want that god to do for you. I omitted most of this tedious detail.