Many Western historians would, I think, certainly dispute the claims of "real" Mongol invincibility after the decline of the Mongol Empire—at least past the fifteenth century. You bring up Timur's campaigns against the Ottomans, but not his wars with Toqtamysh in 1391 and '95—or, even more relevantly, the failure of the Chaghatay Khanate to maintain a hold on Transoxiana earlier in the century. (It's important to remember that while Timur came of nomad stock, his power really rested on the sedentary population of Transoxiana—and if you can make the argument that his troops were more nomadic than those of the Ottomans, there were states still more nomadic than his.) Quite a bit later, and on the China side, the Battle of Jao Modo in 1696 showed that the Qing Empire was decisively able to hold its Inner Asian frontiers.
For a long time, it was traditional in Western historiography to ascribe the decline in Mongol power to the adoption of Buddhism in Eastern Central Asia—which, so the story goes, made pacifists out of men formerly accustomed to hard and violent lives, and moreover took a large number of men out of the potential fighting force to become lamas. (This idea is somewhat similar to the Russian one you mention, since it's founded on the principle that if the Mongols weren't constrained by their religion, the world would be constantly in danger of another Mongol invasion.) This theory was, however, attacked by Owen Lattimore in his Inner Asian Frontiers of China (1940) and has long since fallen by the wayside. Certainly, by the nineteenth century, Western travelers in Mongolia did not see any trace of the Mongols' world-conquering ancestors in the men they encountered—the Travels of Évariste Régis Huc, probably the most famous piece of Mongolia travel-writing from the period, views the Mongols rather as objects of pity exploited by their canny Chinese neighbors. (This was compounded by the advent of race science, which put the Mongols on a decisively lower footing vis-à-vis the West; on this, and more generally later Western views of the Mongols and Tatars, see the not-exactly-balanced Mongols in Western/American Consciousness by Kevin Stuart.).
Ah, I see! Sorry for the misunderstanding. I don't have much experience with military history, I'm afraid, so I can't really speak to those specifics.
IIRC Khrapachevsky or one of his collegues stated that Mongolian war machine was pretty much unmatched before 18th century and even then it wasn't much worse. So for me the conclusion is that Mongols were some kind of time travellers who managed to go back in time from 20th century war academies and wrecked everyone.
That said, of course, many historians today also hold that the Mongol states that adhered closer to nomadic tradition were stronger than their more sedentarized neighbors. (The key point here is that even if they were stronger, they were certainly not invincible.) In an article on "The Decline and Fall of the Mongol Empire," David Morgan argues that it probably wasn't a coincidence that the strongly sedentarized Yuan and Ilkhan states fell long before the more nomadic Golden/Great Horde and the Chaghatay Khanate. He certainly seems to echo some of the Russian points you mention: "\[a\] competently led and adequately armed force of Central Asian cavalry archers was, other things being equal, unsurpassable on the field of battle (however useless it might be in siege warfare), until the development of efficient battlefield artillery and handguns." But Morgan also concedes that adherence to traditional norms may have also been a weakness, especially in the case of the very nomadic Chaghatay state, which lost control of its rich Transoxianan territories in the mid-fourteenth century.
In short, the consensus is certainly that Mongol military power did degrade after the middle of the thirteenth century, though the question on why and how it did so has long been a matter of discussion among Western historians. The theories I've mentioned so far were held by people concentrating specifically on Central Asia and/or its immediate neighbors; suffice it to say that there is another tradition of world-historiography that seeks to place the decline of steppe power in the context of global shifts in circumstances, but for reasons of space I won't treat it here.
Nobody claims that Mongols were invincible after their decline, the problem here is that many historians argue that their decline was completely catastrophic for them from the military standpoint.
The problem of understanding for me here is not that nomadic forces weren't effective (they most certainly were; after all, in every single corner of the Earth where humans managed to tame horses mounted warriors were always more valuable than the infantry IIRC), the problem is the level of the martial capabilities of the Mongol Empire before 1250s. Essentially Khrapachevsky says that tactical and some other (Mongolian bow) innovations developed shortly before Chingis Khan's ascendance made Mongols de-facto a game changer: they destroyed and outplayed everyone, conquering insane amounts of territory in insanely short period of time, then suddenly disappeared, quickly degenerating into "barely able idiots" (which also managed to somehow forget how to make 50kg strong curved bows and had to use 20-25kg strong ones). These are some strong claims and I wanted to know whether or not there was some kind of thorough research in the West on this topic. Mongolian armies came, deployed almost 20th century level tactical and strategic organisation, defeated and subjugated everyone and quickly vanished, like a ghost. Probably it's me being uneducated but I simply do not understand how such quick reforms could happend and then become completely forgotten in such a short period of time.
Note that the examples of u/AksiBashi of nomads being defeated are actually examples of nomands being defeated by either other nomads or mixed states with strong nomadic component.
Moreover, Temujin Mongols wasn't the first time steppe seeming invincibility happened, but third. Though, it was the biggest of the three, so if Khrapachevsky is specialist about Mongols only, he really should broaden his area of expertise to other periods of the steppe, at least... Although i agree with the general gist, that there was not much of a decline in that aspect, it was mostly political factors. Also.
He does. He clearly stated that it's pretty obvious that Mongol defeats grow very fast as the time flows and they become more and more divided IIRC.
Russian historical science's consensus is that no other nomads ever managed to build such strong empires in extremely short periods of time with ridiculously light losses on their side, casually smashing through multiple strong kingdoms and empires and desintegrating only because they defragmented. Extreme swaths of populated territories evaporated in a couple of years as if they were carpet bombed.
That's interesting, because i can think of two other places where nomads didn't have that much of a advantage militarily, one is Rus and the other Persia. Both, interestingly being border states with a lot of contact with nomads. China was also a border state, but China was so much bigger than either of these that it is different example.
Strictly speaking, this was not always the case. Although it's obvious that battles I mention weren't that big in comparison to the ones fought by Timurids for example, Russian victories over the Golden Horde at Vozha and Kulikovo (as well as Lithuanian victory at the Blue Waters) did happen, and Russians/Lithuanians weren't nomads. But they definitely had big experience in fighting with and against nomads though.
Russian story is weird, in a way. They are the only country that managed to be consistent in their victories against nomads after Kulikovo Field, and it was not that late in history, nomads had some important victories still awaiting them. And before that, despite the Kalka catastrophe, their earlier record wasn't too shabby either.
Well, i can agree with that consensus if you put it that way, but Turkic Khaganate does come... well, let's say it was half as impressive. Xiongnu (and tbh, Xianbei and Rourans) were impressive too.
That would be an impression of western traveller in IX century, too, frankly. When China dominates the steppes, it exploits steppe people who are often relatively naive and certainly dirt poor compared to Chinese. But it is exactly these and related qualities that made them better at warfare.
“Consistent” is a bit strong word I would say. Nomads still posed considerable threat to the Russian State: Tokhtamysh himself burned Moscow down (although some argue it could’ve been easily prevented if only garrison had more guts), and Tatars continued their raids well into 17th century. But yes, in 16th century nomadic tribes bending their knee or seeking protection from Russia become quite common, and victories scored against Tatars in 14-16 centuries seriously increase Russian morale and make them believe in their own capabilities against such strong enemy.
On a side note since you seem to be Russian or at least read Khrapachevsky and interested in the topic, i've got a question - how do you find the work of Lev Gumilov? (about the topic at hand, not his general views which are kind of different story...).
I never read Gumilev but modern Russian historians are very skeptical of his works, so I heard. Khrapachevsky himself thinks that Gumilev could be useful but finds his theories to be awfully flawed.
>This theory was, however, attacked by Owen Lattimore in his Inner Asian Frontiers of China (1940) and has long since fallen by the wayside.
It might not be a Western invention given that it was a them in Central Asia thousand years earlier . How did the mentioned attack unfold?