Why do you say there's "no evidence"? How are you defining evidence, and would you maintain the same skepticism if it were commonly held that he was straight but there were no wives, no illegitimate children, no known mistresses?
Florence was known in its time for being more accepting of romance and sex between two men (or rather, for their being practiced widely despite official condemnation), to such an extent that it had a reputation throughout Europe. This was discussed blatantly, with only minimal cover, by chroniclers, visitors, and locals, usually negatively by the first two and both positively and negatively by the latter. This has been known for a long time, but owing to the attitudes in my first paragraph, it was taboo for historians to entertain it seriously for centuries. Michael Rocke states in Forbidden Friendships: Homosexuality and Male Culture in Renaissance Florence that "homosexual behavior ... constituted a pervasive and integral aspect of male sexual experience, of the construction of masculine gender identity, and of forms of sociability." With this context to the bare bones of what we know about Leonardo da Vinci's sex life, it seems far more than likely that, even though he wouldn't have characterized himself as a gay man, he was participating in this world, like many other male artists of his time.
For hundreds of years, people did not really talk about Leonardo da Vinci's private life. It was generally accepted that he was a very great man - one of THE great men of "Western civilization" - and of course it would be lesé majesté to discuss the potential of homosexual behavior on his part. People did not actually talk about homosexuality as an identity; they saw men having sex with men (and women with women) as immoral behavior that indicated character deficiencies. In the second half of the nineteenth century, however, same-sex attraction began to be studied as a medical/psychological issue, and by the turn of the century researchers were able to treat it as a way of being without a moral component. This is the atmosphere in which the Florentine records showing that Leonardo da Vinci was formally accused of sodomy were finally published in 1896.
In 1910, Sigmund Freud published a small book titled Eine Kindheitserinnerung des Leonardo da Vinci - "A Childhood Memory of Leonardo da Vinci". (This is a few years after Elisar von Kupffer wrote a book on one of Leonardo's students, Antonio Bazzi, known as Il Sodoma because of his proclivities; Freud was certainly aware of it.) This book begins by noting that while people have talked quite a bit about Leonardo's work, there has been very little attention given to his personal life and personality, even in writings by others from his lifetime. There's a lot of Freudian analysis in it that I am not remotely capable of unpacking, but basically: Freud saw a struggle within Leonardo, shown by his tendency not to finish his paintings; he explored a particular story Leonardo recounted later in life, of having a bird of prey put its tail in his mouth as a baby by relating it to the desire to perform fellatio and the act of nursing; and he explained that sons of absent fathers (like Leonardo) often ended up being attracted to men instead of women. Outside of this kind of shaky interpretation, Freud pointed to the known circumstances of the artist's life:
This was taken quite seriously. Hirschfeld (the founder of the Institut für Sexualwissenschaft) published a summary of the book, and Ellis listed Leonardo along with Muret, Erasmus, Michelangelo, and a number of other historical figures as homosexual in the "sexual inversion" volume of his Studies in the Psychology of Sex. And really, it has been historical consensus since this point.
My definition of evidence is: “The available body of facts or information indicating whether a belief or proposition is true or valid” — but there’s nothing concrete to determine whether or not Leonardo was gay.
Also, what are you implying when you say: “Would you maintain the same skepticism if it were commonly held that he was straight but there were no wives, no legitimate children, no known mistresses”.
It would be a mistake to look at the sexuality of historical people as akin to the result of a court trial, with sufficient proof needing to be presented to result in a verdict of this or that label that did not exist at the time. The tricky thing is that when we erect rigid borderlines and demand affirmative proof, we are going to end up miscategorizing a lot of people. Your standard would see pretty much all historical nuns and many monks assumed to be asexual, for instance, because they never expressed sexual/romantic feelings in such a way that it was documented for posterity. There also must have been many, many people in history who felt same-sex attraction and either felt they couldn't act on it due to the strictures of their time, or else did so with such successful discretion that it was never recorded in a court case or local gossip. Situations like Anne Lister's, where we have private diary entries that say essentially "I am only sexually attracted to women," are incredibly rare. We can even easily turn it around and say that who someone was known to have had sex with has no bearing on their own preferences, e.g. a man may have had children with his wife out of duty while being completely unattracted to women. We can only really talk about probabilities and possibilities.