In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
And you being from Michigan, I think our two states are politically similar and moving in the same more-moderate direction these days.
And I'm hoping he and his family are in a much better place soon. Like you said, that's collectively some tough stuff to work through.
It really isn't. It is, however, a good reminder to have empathy for people who are going through struggles. It would have been hard enough for the kids if their dad got a new job as a US Senator, but he also had a life altering stroke. The family is just learning new ways to cope and be there for each other.
It's hard to remember that people in spotlight are still humans. Plus I think Fetterman was one of the real honest good guys out there.
I would wager that Senator Fetterman asked his wife to take the kids on this trip; disrupt their routine so they don't focus on not being able to be with or see their dad.
As a very moderate Republican PA voter who voted for Fetterman, I'm fine waiting for him to get better. Physical and mental health issues can temporarily sidetrack any of us regardless of our age, profession or political party and if I were him I'd appreciate empathy from my constituents too.
I trust that he'll have the judgment to make any necessary decision if and when necessary and share that with Shapiro who I also think is a decent guy as governor.
As Fetterman's constituent, I certainly can and from what I've seen here in PA no one seems at all concerned.
I'd say most Pennsylvanians are empathetic to what our Senator's going through. I certainly appreciate the he's not Ted Cruz, lol.