Right off: don't assume that just because a social media account has posts/data that look real that it is real. Facebook accounts are insanely easy to fake or steal.
The FTC actually has a pretty good website for identity theft, with steps you can take and a chat option you can talk to. It's here: I've linked to the "steps" so that you can flip through them and see what may be applicable. I definitely recommend taking the steps that deal with checking and freezing his credit; it's just a good idea to freeze your credit until you need it.
If you get a package that you did not order and you have the option to refuse it, do so. If you can't, contact Amazon and let them know what happened. Do not respond to the person who messaged you on Facebook, or to anyone else that messages you about this situation. Communicate only with Amazon's customer service. Do not send the package anywhere except right back to Amazon; also don't agree to give it to anyone else, or similar. Be on the lookout for this "person" to start asking for other information, no matter how innocuous it seems.
What should I do about my husband's identity being used. Should I contact Amazon or wait until I get a package to verify this is legit. I am so afraid that his identity is floating around there and have this happen again.
Certain portions of a person's identity are public information. Name and Address are things that can be looked up in databases all over the place. This might be a simple scam where the only information that they have are a name and address, at which point you don't have a ton to worry about.
Honestly; to me, this doesn't sound like your husband's identity has fully been stolen. What I expect is that your address was pulled at random from a database that the scammers got access to; when you get the box, you'll probably get more messages asking you to give the box to a specific person or take it to a specific place. This is a form of what's called a "", where they are attempting to use your husband as the unwitting 'mule' in the middle. They're not after his identity in that case, they're using him to hide theirs. Refusing to participate by refusing the packages and letting Amazon know what happened should put an end to it.
We were planning on just sending them back to Amazon. Even the guy asked us to please do this for him. He said he has 11 small packages because he is fixing up a truck, he even told me the truck model but I dont think thats revelat in this post.