Just to let you know, your question is fine, and we're letting it stand. However, you should be aware that questions framed as 'Why didn't X do Y' relatively often don't get an answer that meets our standards (in our experience as moderators). There are a few reasons for this. Firstly, it often can be difficult to prove the counterfactual: historians know much more about what happened than what might have happened. Secondly, 'why didn't X do Y' questions are sometimes phrased in an ahistorical way. It's worth remembering that people in the past couldn't see into the future, and they generally didn't have all the information we now have about their situations; things that look obvious now didn't necessarily look that way at the time.
If you end up not getting a response after a day or two, consider asking a new question focusing instead on why what happened did happen (rather than why what didn't happen didn't happen) - this kind of question is more likely to get a response in our experience. Hope this helps!
Thanks a lot for the feedback! Yes, the ‘Tempietto del Clittuno’ indeed looks a bit out of place in the Early Middle Ages. Its façade follows the Corinthian order in a remarkably consistent way, rarely to be seen after Antiquity and before the Renaissance. It’s small wonder then that for the longest time it was thought to be an ancient temple that had simply been converted into church. Hence the name “temple of Jupiter Clitumnus”. There are of course many examples for such a thing happening. Famous ancient sanctuaries like Rome’s Pantheon or the Parthenon in Athens have been transformed to serve the Christian religion. The scepticism of the late antique Christians towards the monuments of pagan religion is also reflected in the fact that these conversions usually took place decades or even centuries after the old cults had been banned.
There are indeed good reasons why the architecture of the earliest monumental church buildings differed significantly from the temples of Pagan religions. For one thing, it was simply not in the interest of the early Christians for their places of assembly to resemble those of other cults. In the eyes of Christians, the religions of Greece and Rome were characterized by idolatry, demonic worship and bloody sacrificial rituals, things they wanted to have absolutely no part in. It would not have made sense to imitate the buildings where all this was practiced.
Polemics aside, the early Christians were not necessarily far off the mark here. The way in which the Pagan cults were practised was indeed very different from Christian worship and this was also reflected in the design of the religious architecture of both groups. Let us first have a look at what a Greco-Roman temple actually is and what it isn’t. It certainly wasn’t a place for large groups of people to congregate and worship together. Instead it was simply a shrine to house the cultic image of a god, more a very elaborately designed container than a building to be used and visited by people. The actual worship didn’t take place inside of it. Instead that was performed at an altar in front of the temple, were the sacrifices took place. Those were the central acts of religious practise for the adherents of the Pagan cults. In the front a priest of the Isis cult is performing a sacrifice at an altar while the cult image (a sarcophagus of Osiris with Horus falcon) looks on from within what seems to imply a kind of temple building.
This means that a temple wasn’t even a necessary component to every sanctuary. The only essential part was the altar. Sacrificial rituals didn’t need to take place in front of a large temple, they could also be performed in a sacred cave, at a street crossing or inside one’s own house.
How did this influence the architecture of Greek and Roman temples? For one thing not nearly every one of them was as monumental as the Parthenon in Athens or the temple of Jupiter Optimus Maximus on the Capitol in Rome. They could also be tiny shrines, just large enough to house the cult image and without much space to even enter it. If they were built larger it wasn’t to be able to house more people but to give a god a suitably grandiose home. Consequently most temple interiors are architecturally relatively simple. Of course those interiors could still be lavishly decorated, they should be a suitable home for a god after all. But the visually most interesting part was almost always the outside, because that was what people saw when stood at the altar. Much thought and skilful work went into its design. They were surrounded by rows of carefully drafted columns, decorated with intricately carved friezes and reliefs and bore monumental inscriptions. The features most prized about the Athenian Parthenon are its elegant proportions and the incredible skill that must have went into producing . The were once decorating the Parthenon’s tympanon. All this was visible from the outside.
Such a building would have been of absolutely no use to the early Christians. Their religion didn’t have any sacred images yet – idols as they would call them – and they were very insistent upon that fact. The cult of Christian icons or devotional pictures would only come into being much later, when church architecture had already centuries of history. So to the early Christian religion a building to house a sacred image was simply obsolete. Their religious practice revolved around gathering the congregation to listen to the holy texts and most importantly take part in the holy communion at the eucharist. Their altar was no place for bloody sacrifice but where they commemorated the most important sacrifice of all: the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. And since only people who had already been baptized could take part in that the altar couldn’t be placed outside where everybody would have been able to access it. So what Christians needed were spaces for communal gatherings. Inside the Roman architectural canon the building type that came closest to serve this purpose was the basilica. Structures like the were designed to house large groups of people. The long rows of columns made it possible for the interior space to be even larger while still supporting a roof over it. People could do business here or settle their legal matters. Since they entered for different reasons and did not all take part in the same activities most civic basilicas lack a singular architectural focal point. You often entered them from their broad side and then could go wherever you liked. The new Christian basilicas needed to be different in this regard. Everyone in there was here for the same reason: to listen to the same texts and watch the same liturgy. So the entrance was at the far side directly opposite to the altar, which in most cases was accentuated by an apse behind it. The long rows of columns now visually emphasized the way from the entrance to the altar. still gives a remarkably good impression how those early Christian basilicas looked like.
The strong focus on the interior was reflected in the decoration of those churches as well. From the outside they were deliberately designed to be rather plain looking. The feature that stands out the most are the large windows, which provide light for the inside. Decorations like reliefs, friezes or marble revetments are rarely to be found at late antique church facades. The interior was a whole other story though. Here colourful marbles, shining mosaics and splendid wall paintings abounded. The gathering room of the Christian community was staged as a privileged space, deliberately differentiated from the outside.
Nevertheless the basilica form was still relatively simple. To produce more spectacular interior spaces Late Roman architects had a different option: central-plan buildings topped off by large domes. Such domes were very rare among ancient temples (the Pantheon in Rome is spectacular and rightfully famous but also highly unusual). But among the monumental churches of Late Antiquity they are much more common. Constantine the Great already chose a central-plan building when he donated a new church for the city of Antioch at the Orontes, the so called ‘Golden Octogon’. The most remarkable feature of , maybe Late Antiquity’s most famous church, is its dome. Their popularity is easy to understand. A dome develops its optical effect primarily inwards and makes for a spectacular setting for the Christian liturgy.
It’s only much later that ancient temple designs would be used as models for church buildings. After the Pagan religions of Greece and Rome had largely died out the temples stopped being symbols of idolatry and started to be associated with Rome’s lost glory that most Christian societies tried to emulate in some way. This explains churches like the 7th century or the 18th century .