In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
A convention requires all parties have the same general desire to improve the Republic. It doesn't exist today. This is like giving billionaires, evangelists and corporations a plasma torch to any remaining chains on their ability to take power.
You have already seen how easily the public can be swayed to BS by the media which is owned by the rich. You have seen how small population red states can influence our rights as a whole.
I am totally against and Article V convention. Such a convention would be a Sh&t Show and manipulated by the right wing because this is exactly what they have been driving to force.
If you can't get states and people to agree under the current process then just watch how it all fails in an open undefined convention. No way.
That said, I don't think it's going to happen anyway. This country will just slowly degrade until it eventually breaks apart.
I don't understand this position. Much of the left thinks the Constitution needs fixing, too. How do you fix it if you close off all avenues to doing so because they might not go well?
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The general US citizen is not looking at how this will actually go down. They will be sold the pot of gold and it will be worse than BREXIT. In fact the sales pitch is the same approach. People are morons.
you could add the weird shit about 'Uber inc.' brigading against the CA proposition that would have given their employees a living wage.
The amount of under the cover money here will be astronomical. The citizens will be getting a massive citizens united crushing blow to the republic.
I am against it because once the door is open it will be a complete media nightmare with no control over it. It will not focus on any single points. It will go for everything and fail. It will just be a WWF match of ideologies with no goals to fix anything other than grab their particular powers.
Never going to happen, for the same reasons you listed. Your "solution" to a flawed Constitution is - effectively - do nothing. And that benefits the same "wealthy interests" that your links are concerned about.
Except we could elect good people. Instead a convention would allow the same bad people to appoint their champions and rewrite bespoked directly into the structure. Really a bad idea.
I agree that it's a real dilemma. But I don't see anyone offering a real solution to this dilemma. "Elect good people" hasn't been working, because campaign finance(/bribery) is a mess, the media favors corporations, and the two-party system is failing to answer to what the majority of people want in many cases (like healthcare).
The problem you have with states senator counts for many states with populations less than a coastal city and the electoral college will be the exact problem with the convention. States with low populations having equal power to states with large populations. Article V will not fix it.
Article 5 is would be a tool used by the rich and powerful to write out everything they find in their way and grant themselves power you can't touch. The founders all had a basic goal and mutual desire. They were at a cliff and they all had to jump. This is no longer the case.