Before the average person reads this and freaks out, nuclear rockets are ONLY used in space (which is already filled with deadly radiation). They are not used to launch rockets inside the Earth’s atmosphere.
Also since in space a nuclear explosion has nothing to actually push against, all it will amount to is a big EMP pulse.
Then of course there's 60s/70s SciFi where we had huge spaceships being catapulted into orbit by exploding a succession of nuclear bombs underneath them...
The risky part is getting the reactors safely into space, or at least far enough away to not cause widespread fallout from an exploded rocket.
“Just” need to make sure the radioactive parts per million is low enough (depends on the altitude of the explosion and the amount of radioactive material onboard).
And in what way do we need to cart about fallout in space? The engine thrust isn’t enough to lift anything off the ground, it would be reserved for space activities only.
It’s a heating system for the hydrogen, the heat is moved to before the engine bell and heats the liquid hydrogen causing it to forcefully expand and produce thrust. And modern nerva variants wouldn’t even use uranium, they would use a thorium plutonium duo to allow for the heating to easily be turned on and off.
When thorium and plutonium are placed together they create a sustainable nuclear reaction but both require the other to work so if they are removed the reaction stops.
> And as always arises both the increased risk of dispersion of hazardous materials in the event of an accident at various stages of takeoff – as well as the dose of radiation potentially received by the occupants of rockets equipped with such nuclear propulsion systems.
I mean, the reactors would never blow up, they’d melt down and spread radiation over a wide area, but that’s a moot point.
See Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle for example... Early SciFi was wild, there's a whole crazy (but very interesting) archive out there about the actual physics of atomic rockets and physically accurate space warfare...
You definitely have no clue how modern reactors work. Cherinoble and Fukushima used uranium for the heating element. Modern reactors is a combination of thorium and plutonium. When these are held together the initiate fission but have the exceptional benefits is that they 1. Couldn’t blow up even if they tried 2. Can easily be removed from each other to stop anything that may happen.
What are the chances of this happening? Probably low. But that low probability has a high impact, so it’s not anything to scoff at.
It’s really not that big of a deal. Nerva was found to be the most efficient and reliant engine. It had a high ISP and only needed a hydrogen mono propellant to be used. And it had the benefit of constantly giving electrical energy.