That’s going to be a very tough ask, IMO. The US DoL generally considers commuting time as unpaid - especially regular commute times.
Commuting to an alternate site can be compensable if it is commute in lieu of work - such as if you work 9-5, but the additional commute time cuts through these hours. Commuting between work sites during the regular work day is compensable due to the portal to portal act.
However, commute time to alternate site is not compensable “unless the time involved is extraordinary.” Extraordinary is not defined, of course - but reference is made to a letter based on a 4 hour commute to site being potentially compensable. 90 minutes may or may not be extraordinary.
But this is also why I’m here asking, cause I may not be interpreting it correctly. But I would say the 90 minutes is unreasonable (for me) given it is 9x longer than my normal commute.
These opinions are not binding, they are suggestions to employers/ees that may indicate how a court might rule.
But it’s not normal commuting which is why I thought it applied to FLSA (see the “home to work in special 1 day assignment).
The problem is the example used in the CFR is a special assignment of a DC 9-5 employee who is asked/required to report to NYC.
Driving to a special assignment is also further clarified: “The part of the travel occurring during your employee’s regular hours of work is probably hours worked.”.
Kavanaugh v Grand Union 1999 (2nd Circuit): summary judgement in favor of Grand Union that time spent by a tech for travel to and from home their various store locations around CT/NYish wasn’t compensable.
An employee who travels from home before his regular workday and returns to his home at the end of the workday is engaged in ordinary home to work travel which is a normal incident of employment.   This is true whether he works at a fixed location or at different job sites.   Normal travel from home to work is not worktime.
The frequency of the request would also play a role. If it’s once a year it might lean more towards it being a special assignment, but if they’re sending someone over there once a week or month it might just be an alternate worksite.
Based on the totality of the relationship - the normal commute isn’t just the employee’s idea of a normal commute:
The job may include coverage in alternate locations as a normal part of their business. Even though it was inequitable (unfair) - that’s how it was has been interpreted.
I just don’t think it’s a slam dunk. You can contact the Wage & Hour division for their opinion as well. And City vs suburb of same city might not qualify as a “special assignment in a different city.” Satalite offices in the same metro area may not be special assignment or travel outside the home community.
We will need to go multiple times in one month, but then potentially not go again for over a year. Or we go once and then never again. Cause it has to do with shuffling bodies around to the different locations, when staffing is low. That’s why I feel like it is a special assignment/not just an alternate site. Cause my company does have clinics with multiple sites where employees knowingly go to multiple cities (in other states).
It is definitely at the companies request and purely for their benefit, so that they don’t have to shut a clinic down for a whole day.
And a benefit my company offers is profit sharing of any surplus profits past a goal, but I am only eligible for those of my main office in the city. Even if I worked at another location during the quarter, I am not considered an employee of that site and am not eligible for their shares.
Yes, but Unlike in that case, I do have a fixed office, and I’m not trying to get my everyday commute compensated.
It is purely when they ask me to do a one-off day in one of the other cities. Which l can go months or even years without being asked to do so.
29 U.S.C. § 254(a).   One of the Portal-to-Portal Act's implementing regulations specifically provides that ordinary commuting is not compensable under the FLSA:
Yes in theory I’d you are traveling to another city you are entitled to pay for your drive time (less the time it normally takes you to commute). That said, if you “demand a satisfactory” resolution you are going to come off like an asshole. Just inform your boss that you believe they are mistaken about their interpretation of the law and that you believe you are entitled to be paid for that time, don’t make any “demands” or “threats” to file claims. If they won’t pay you properly then just file the claim. No need to be dramatic about it.
True true. I was probably feeling dramatic, as I am an exaggerating person. And I do like my job and have no real complaints other than this issue. Just also tired of how long they are taking/it seems like a straightforward issue. So not sure why after I pointed out the law, I was still forced to travel without compensation because “they needed more time to assess”.
Of note, the identical words of the law were in our employee handbook 2 years ago saying we would be compensated and then disappeared in 2021. With no explanation and no new policy. (Part of why I brought it to their attention)//why I’m questioning if I have legal grounds to raise my concerns.
I appreciate all your responses so far I think I may need to just reach out again asking them to, in writing tell me what their official stance is on the law/whether it applies to my situation and then consult the DOL. Part of my frustration is I have not even been able to get them to acknowledge my concerns outside of we are looking into it.