Your example is a very large increase, if that's based on real life that may be too large an increase to be legal or require a longer notice period under the CA Tenant Protection Act passed last year.
In general a lease would be prorated from the date an increase is effective - so if your rent is due on the 1st, but the increase is effective the 10th, the first 10 days would cost the old rate, and everything after the 10th would cost the new rate.
This would make your first month of the new rate 'cheaper' because the first third was still subject to the old rate.
It basically says if you have no written lease at all your rent is due at the end of the rental period, not the beginning - meaning on the last day of the month instead of the first.
But this isn't directly related to any rent increase requirements that I know of. Someone more familiar with CA property law may know more.
For the example you gave, your rent payment on November 1st is for the month of November. Changing the rent can only take effect starting on December's payment.
It would be stated in your lease agreement. Most boilerplate leases indicate it is paid in advance. If it is not explicitly stated in your lease agreement, it can be implied by whether or not you paid your first month of rent before you started your lease; you can't double-pay rent, so when you pay your first month in advance the subsequent payment must be for the month after, and so on.
If, somehow, you did not pay any rent in advance and you have no lease document, you may run into the exceedingly rare situation where CA Civil Code 1947 applies. As noted, that would mean that your rent does come due in arrears. However, that does not change the answer; you have an expectation that the rent payment is static for the period of the lease.
That means the terms of your original lease, including the payment date and method, still apply one month at a time. This is covered in CA Civil Code 1945:
Just threw out some numbers. So, this amount would all be due 11/1 or the prorated portion due 12/1? Someone told me section 1947 civil code saids due following month?
>1945. If a lessee of real property remains in possession thereof after the expiration of the hiring, and the lessor accepts rent from him, the parties are presumed to have renewed the hiring on the same terms and for the same time, not exceeding one month when the rent is payable monthly, nor in any case one year.