If he's specifically looking for a bilingual individual to fill a job that, from time to time, requires that employee to speak Spanish, there is generally no legal issue with that.
If your friend believes differently and feels they're legally entitled to be hired for the job despite their inability to speak Spanish, their best line of recourse would be to consult with an employment discrimination attorney and/or get in touch with the EEOC. Your friend should set their expectations accordingly about their chances of getting either of those to force the company to hire them.
If you're curious as to why speaking Spanish is a requirement for that position, and you work there, you can opt to ask your boss why that is. Perhaps there's a reason you're unaware of.
That's not a substitute for human interaction and rapport. The business can plan to penetrate more of the Spanish-speaking market and require new hires to be proficient in the language.
Some of my favorite and sweetest customers have full convo with me through my iPhone translate app. I’m not sure why you would feel you can’t build a rapport with someone you can find a way to communicate with but thank you for your input.
I asked for advice my internet friend. I’m just simply asking questions that may help me further understand this question. I’m in no way attempting to argue. As far as I know this is a civil sub?
And I gave you answers. The employer is allowed to attempt to penetrate the Spanish-speaking market. The law does not prohibit this. Using technology like a translator is not a substitute for a human being having knowledge of the language and understands cultural nuance. I use 3 languages on a daily basis and if you go monthly I use 4. But by all means, imply that I don't know at all what I'm talking about if it helps you justify why your friend did not get hired and why it wasn't illegal to reject his application.
But my answer was given by someone who is clearly more knowledgeable and was much more respectful. So I appreciate your attempt to flex your multi language skill but alas it isn’t actually an answer so much as a way for you to brag. But the case is closed and I will no longer respond to ignorant attempts to argue when I simply asked for advice and clarification.