Was there ever a court case filed? If so, you may be able to search for the case online and find the lawyer's contact information that way. You can usually find those by searching for [county] court case lookup or some variation on that.
The settlement check should be made out to you and your attorney and then the attorney should disburse the amount remaining after his fees in your name only since you are now 18. However, since you were a minor when the accident happened, it is possible they will put your parents' names on the check as well.
I would do what you can to track down the attorney's information and call them to let them know of your concerns.
NAL but I handle lots of bank accounts for stuff like this out of AZ. If you are just now getting the money, you should get it directly as you are an adult now and the attorney should be on board with that. Key word is “should”. If the money was received when you were a minor it should have been put in a restricted conservatorship account and would likely still be there unless there was a new court order releasing it. Sounds like you need to press your dad for info.
You can ask them for an accounting right now of the funds. That will require them to disclose where the money is.
I would transfer the money out of whatever account it's in the second I could (presumably when you're turning 21). If they play hardball, simply speak to a lawyer and they can remind them that a violation of fiduciary obligations isn't something to be trifled with.
How did you get the information that you will be getting the settlement soon? If this is all coming from your stepmom there is a chance she could be lying to you and they already received the money while you were a minor. You really should press your dad for more details so you can at least get back in touch with the attorney. You are correct that there is no way they should be able to legally control that money, and any settlement check should need to be signed by you - assuming it is true that it has not yet been paid and is just getting settled now.
Also, if the check does come and you need to sign it, do not sign it and give it back to your stepmom. Take physical possession of the check and open a new account at a bank that your parents don't have any relationship with. If it does require the signatures of both you and your parents, maybe contact the issuer of the check (insurance or law firm) and find out why it can't be in just your name now that you are an adult. But do not sign it until you feel you have control of the situation. Once it goes into your parents' or stepmom's account, you will likely never have control of that money again.