Again though, please remember the rules, and keep them in mind while you browse. If you don't like how this subreddit is run, keep in mind that this method has seen us continue to succeed and grow for years, and isn't going to change, so at least try and make your complaint original. /r/AskHistory exists, so complaining about the rules to us is like going into a local microbrewery and getting mad they don't serve Bud Light. Everyone has their preferred tipple, but that doesn't require every space to stock yours.
It can take time for , so we thank you for your patience. If you want to be reminded to come check back later, or simply find other great content to read while you wait, provides a guide to a number of ways to do so, including the RemindMeBot- - or.
Additionally, if all you have to contribute is copy-pasting Book 5 Chapter 56 of the Gallic Commentaries, please refrain. Several have, and all have been removed. The question is two parts, and if you cannot provide good analysis of "if this is true", then you are not answering the question to the standards expected here, but we do welcome you to put your source hunting skills to use in the thread!
As several others have noted, Carlin's source is almost certainly an episode in the fifth book of Caesar's Commentaries on the Gallic War, in which a Gallic chieftain calls an armed council. Caesar comments:
It is likely (though of course impossible to prove) that something like what Caesar describes actually occurred. But it is difficult to say whether such executions were really customary. As witnessed by the proto-ethnographic asides that punctuate the Commentaries, Caesar was interested (or at least thought his audiences back in Rome would be interested) in the customs of the Gallic tribes. To accentuate his own achievement in defeating and subjugating said Gallic tribes, however, he had a clear interest in accentuating their "savage" / un-Roman character. So it would be perfectly in keeping with his authorial purpose to play up a rumor or isolated incident of torture into a barbarian custom.
"This, in the practice of the Gauls, marks the beginning of a war; and by a general law all grown men are accustomed to assemble at it in arms, while the one who comes last to the assembly is put to death with every kind of torture in sight of the host. " (5.56).
If you frequent the sub, you know the drill. If you're here from /r/all, or browse only occasionally, please be aware we have strict rules here intended to enforce the very high bar we expect from comments, so before posting, please read our . We remove comments which don't comply, and consider everyone forewarned. If you have feedback or commentary about how things are run here, please don't post it in this thread. We'll just remove it. We love to hear thoughtful, constructive feedback via however.
To be honest, I don't know the literature on the Commentaries well enough to have a really strong opinion on the matter. I think it's more likely than not, simply because Posidonius' description was probably the most comprehensive available to him for at least parts of Gaul. But I would imagine that most of what Caesar learned from Posidonius was complemented by (and maybe discarded in favor of) what he learned from merchants and other informants.
The only source I know that might provide a sort of control on Caesar's description is the fourth book of Strabo's Geography. Through he wrote decades after the conquest of Gaul, Strabo drew on the (now lost) work of Posidonius, a Greek polymath who probably visited Gaul a few decades before Caesar's invasion. Strabo mentions the important role of human sacrifice in pre-Roman Gallic culture, and provides various lurid examples:
"They used to strike a human being, whom they had devoted to death, in the back with a saber, and then divine from his death-struggle....We are told of still other kinds of human sacrifices; for example, they would shoot victims to death with arrows, or impale them in the temples, or, having devised a colossus of straw and wood, throw into the colossus cattle and wild animals of all sorts and human beings, and then make a burnt-offering of the whole thing." (4.4.5).