I did block her on social media bc I just couldn’t take the harassment last night, but that’s solid advice, I’m going to take that advice and price some cameras/security systems today. Ugh I’m kicking myself for getting involved with all this.
"What freaked me out more is that was lined up with a date she was supposed to get evicted..." "I know that might sound paranoid but...".
i think your intuition was correct and you dodged a big one there. the excuses would start building up why they can return to their home. you would be stuck with them until the eviction process is complete. you would be stressed living with them and out of pocket paying an attorney. it almost seems daily we get a post on here from homeowners about a guest overstaying their welcome.
Thank you. Yeah that’s the one thing that’s compelling me to not give the dog back in effort to avoid the drama, it would break my heart to send her back to that environment when we can provide her with everything a doggie needs here (especially the calm, loving, safe home without having to be hiding under furniture to avoid being swung around by her tail 😢).
If they decide to pursue the return of the dog in court, you are allowed to request the amount you spent on care, boarding, and veterinary in compensation for your time.
i'm not an attorney but i think the feedback here is correct. in addition, if they were getting evicted, i doubt they have the resources to hire an attorney or take care of a dog.
You are not obligated to facilitate this person's intrusion on your life. You own the dog now, legally.
Most people would turn away upon seeing it's going to cost them $1k to get their dog back, plus legal fees.
This person wants all the perks of their family having a dog without any of the costs or responsibility, in addition to putting you out by hosting them. This parasitic behavior can very safely be blocked and cut out of your life.
This has all the makings of potential insanity. Like, "Javier Bardiem should never have let Ed Harris in the house, because now Kristin Wiig is here" insanity.
Do not let them in. Tell them there will be no more visits to your house; and that moving in is out of the question. Ideally you will block them, but if they want to see the dog and you're willing to let them, you will meet them in the middle at a public park, and bring some friends.
Remember that "No" is a complete sentence, and so is, "I cannot accommodate that request." But to be honest, saying, "Your child does not know how to safely handle dogs, and that is not something I can allow" is a very valid reason.
If they actually pursue this legally, and if by some miracle a judge would agree with them and compel the return of the property, keep the compensation card tucked in your sleeve.