If you contributed to the invention then your name should absolutely be listed on the patent as an inventor.
You should talk to the patent attorney who is drafting the application and explain your contribution. He will decide whether you should be named.
Inventor vs Assignee is the distinction. You own 0% of the patent, cannot sue for infringement, etc. Your company can sell or license the patent, and does not need consent from you to do so. Effectively, it’s like you were part of building a car for your company. You don’t own any of the final product, you just receive pay to invent/build for your employer.
Companies that don’t take this seriously, and instead hand out or withhold naming like a prize or punishment, are a real PITA for patent attorneys.
But on the other hand, if you’re seeking a new job, seeking a professorship, a witness in a case, or just want to brag about your achievements, being a named inventor on the patent is important. And it’s very important for your company, so take the advice above and make sure your contributions are well known to your employer and the prosecuting attorney.
Typically the process is that you or your supervisor starts a patent disclosure with all of the names, they then send it on to whomever coordinates with the lawyer, the lawyer (or a patent agent) writes it up the best they can and interviews the inventors if there are questions, if everything looks good for filing HR collects the patent releases (which will have the full legal names and home addresses of the inventors), then the lawyer files it.
If you were involved in the invention and you were not listed in the disclosure provided to the lawyer (and thus have not received an inventor’s declaration to sign) you should talk to your supervisor about it.
A patent can have any number of inventors listed. The order is meaningless (some people like being the first name listed - but the order has no legal meaning).
If you did the last part it might be a case of confusion as to what the document they asked you to sign is actually for.
Yes that is just normal boilerplate - it doesn’t cover actual patent filings however. When a patent is actually filed every inventor needs to sign a declaration ( 35 U.S.C. 115 ) for it with their full legal name (and their home address for record keeping with the lawyer).
I would suggest having a candid discussion with your supervisor about it. If your company is going to be shitty about it then your only choice really is to look for a different place to work with a better environment.