They may be your tenants at this point, meaning they'd be entitled to advance notice (commonly 30 days, but highly location-dependent) to vacate from you followed by a formal eviction proceeding in court if they refuse to leave after that amount of time.
An alternative to advance notice followed by an eviction is to offer them something of value (generally, a gigantic pile of cash or whatever) to leave of their own accord, payable only once they and all their stuff are fully moved out and they're standing outside your front door handing the keys back.
I’m currently reverting my apartment back to the way it was before they came because my landlord is coming tomorrow. I’m going to tell them that we just need to deal with it for one night. But I’m very tempted to just be like… ya get out it’s not going back.
Forcing out or preventing one of your tenants from accessing their home is in the realm of an illegal self-help eviction that has a good chance of biting you in the ass, if that's what you're getting at here.
If you want them gone, I would recommend you go the purely legal route with either a cash-for-keys arrangement, or proper, advance notice to vacate followed by an eviction.
Oh I will but as it stands right now they have full access to all property, things I originally offered them ( room, storage space etc) it’s just looks like my place was before with more clutter lol.
Now that being said if I say “y’all have 30 days, no one is less comfortable this way it’s gonna stay this way deal” is that legal?
Pretty much we had to rearrange my whole house because one guy didn’t want to share a bed… I was nice. Fml.
Keep track of all dates and happenings related to their being there. The date they moved in, what they said their plans were, the date you asked them to leave, and what was said, etc.
You might want to inventory your home by walking through every room and outside with a video camera in case they take offense to being asked to leave and start stealing or wrecking the place. Desperate people do desperate things.
There’s a good chance you’re violating your lease with your landlord, so explain to them you’ll lose the place if they don’t move out.
This notice should be in writing, not verbal, not text message, not email -- ink on paper, handed to them, to ensure maximum adherence to the law.
It's not really about an explicit and definite lenh of time, but more about if they actually live there or not and have established tenancy. Part of proving that tenancy has been established might include the fact that you gave them permission to move in and live there, and then they did that, and have been living there for some time.
read on another post, rather than 30 days notice and then filing for eviction, give them 30 days notice that you will be charging rent. then if they dont pay you can file for eviction for non-payment of rent and take them to court after the eviction to get the back rent. Eviction can take several months.
No idea if you have 3 separate tenants or one group of tenants. The same notice delivered to all 3 might be prudent. Be sure it has their name, your name, the address, the current day's date and the date they need to leave by at a minimum.