This isn't intimidation: file away. This is a very clear heads-up, so that everyone can prepare to have their request rejected.
And then they are saying, "even if you have a medical exemption, there is no accommodation that won't be burdensome to our operations.".
They do have to evaluate in good faith. If you believe they haven't done that, then speak to an attorney.
Thank you. I’m just curious, though, if an exemption is granted, they have to provide reasonable accommodation, right? That was my understanding. However, they’re telling staff that even if they get an exemption granted they are not guaranteed a job. Am I wrong that they are required to provide accommodations?
What they are saying is, "we have yet to find a legitimate religious exemption, but if we do, then the issue changes into what accommodation can be made, and we cannot figure out any accommodation that is reasonable, so we're covered under the law.".
Only if they can. Not every accommodation is reasonable in every circumstance. They already seem to be broadcasting that there will be no accommodation. Really, there are only two accommodations that I can think of here: working from home, or wearing a mask 24/7. They may not be able to have you work from home, and the mask may not be protection enough to be reasonable. (In addition, they are likely looking at two factors: the risk to all their patients from you, which is huge and a big liability, and the risk to you from all their patients, which is huge and also a big liability.).
Thank you. I know that a lot of places have been selective about the exemptions they are approving but have not heard about management actively encouraging employees not to file. That’s what I was wondering about, if they can legally encourage and threaten staff with a guaranteed position if they file an exemption. It was my understanding that if an exemption WAS granted, reasonable accommodations would need to be made. They are telling staff that if they receive an exemption, they (as in administration) would not even be guaranteeing that staff members have a job.
(Let's say someone's religious accommodation request is that they can't work on Sundays. The company reviews and does believe this is a sincerely held belief. But the only accommodation available is to not work on Sundays, and the job is working the lights and an NFL stadium. There's no way to accommodate that.).
And exemptions aren’t like a get out of free jail card. If you’re exempt then the company needs to make reasonable accommodations for you.