While u/MuskyElongatedRocket 's answer is a fascinating look into the possible roots of trinitarian thought, I am fairly certain that the main thrust of his argument with regard to your question does not reflect mainstream scholarship - that early Christians viewed themselves as torch bearers of the Essenes, and that this is what made trinity important to them. Though the similarities are remarkable, the arguments for the jump from similarities to influence and importance are not there. It would require:
1 - That we take Josephus', Philo's and Pliny's descriptions of the Essenes at face value, i.e. that the Essenes were a real and widely known sect with tremendous influence. The historical reliability of their accounts regarding the Essenes is debated (notably by Steve Mason), although it seems likely that the sect did actually exist. However, the ancient sources certainly do not describe their theology very well and they certainly do not name any texts (such as Enoch) that they considered authoritative.
However, we can speculate on their theology if we identify the Qumran sect that collected (and possibly produced some of) the Dead Sea scrolls as an offshoot of the Essenes (or vice versa, as the Jewish Virtual Library does). While this identification remains the most widely accepted hypothesis (though notably challenged by, again, Steve Mason, and others), the theology of the Qumran Sect and how it relates to wider Essenism is not clear cut.
2 - That the Essenes' influence carried over all the way to the 3rd and 4th century Christians who formulated christology and ultimately trinitarianism, which is a terribly unsubstantiated claim, especially considering the problems above. It seems all the more unlikely when we take into account that the earliest Christians seem to have been quite unconcerned with the exact nature of Christ and the Holy Spirit with regard to the Father. Those questions only appear in the following centuries long after the Essene sect had died out.
I will try to answer your question from a theological perspective. The doctrine of the Trinity can only be understood in the context of the christological controversies of the 3rd and 4th centuries, and the crux of those controversies lies in soteriology - i.e. who exactly was Jesus of Nazareth, and how exactly does his death and resurrection result in the salvation of souls.
The First Council of Nicaea in 325 formulated the Nicene Creed that declares belief in a Christ that is "begotten, not made, being of one substance with the Father." This was a reaction especially to Arianism that considered Jesus to be just an ordinary man. Notably, concerning the Holy Spirit, the original creed just states belief in it but does not elaborate any further. It's not considered important at this point. Instead the creed proceeds to condemn some Arianistic beliefs about Christ such as "there was a time when he was not".
Edit: Arians absolutely did not consider Jesus an ordinary man. The distinction to orthodox belief was more subtle, concerning whether the Son of God, although divine, was someone who came to be as a willful act of creation by the Father at some point in time, something that the Nicene creed explicitly rejects.
Probably the most important single theologian to the formulation of christology is Athanasius of Alexandria. He opposed Arianism fiercely, and with regard to why the distinction to Arianism and others was thought to be so important, he points out that creation can not be saved by something that is part of it. Furhermore, Christ being anything less than fully divine would mean the Church being guilty of idolatry.
While Arianism was no doubt the most wide-spread alternative to what eventually became the orthodox belief, all other interpretations were condemned for the same reason: they were considered incompatible with salvation in Christ.
After the relationship of the Son and the Father was settled, it seems natural that Christians followed up with the question of where the Holy Spirit fits in all this. While it was agreed relatively quickly during the latter part of the 4th century that the Spirit must also be divine and equal to the Father and the Son, the exact relationships between the persons of the Trinity caused some debate (notably the filioque-controversy). However, none of it was nearly as important as the question of the Son's relationship to the Father.
On my criticism of the Essene argument I cite Cecilia Wassén's Qumran-bevegelsens opprinnelse og identitet (transl. the origin and identity of the Qumran movement) in Dødehavsrullerene: Deras innhold, historie og betydning (2009), which unfortunately is not available in English, but it is the only thing I had access to right now.
Alister E. McGrath's Christian Theology: An Introduction provides an excellent overview of the development of early Christian doctrine.
Edit: I missed your edit about not being interested in theology. Sorry about that. Regardless, I hope this explains why it was such an important issue.
Thanks a lot for your detailed response. As you saw, it seems to me that the deepest and most interesting question about this whole issue is to try to answer, based in part on the information you gave, why would a civilization/culture be so interested in developing a religion based on such a trinity. It seems to be the only religion on earth that attempts to go through that theological path, historically. My intuitive guess would be that it's the only place where you have a concept of divinity based on an infinitely powerful monopolistic appropiation of the ineffable (judaism), and that from there you also have the only human figure ever claimed to be linked in a total way to this unipersonal concept of divinity. And that then, maybe these problems about trinity are questions that would naturally arrive from that set of presuppositions. But then, the concept of the holy spirit seems to be a bit shoehorned into what could have also been a duality of father and son. I sometimes think, as a spiritual person, that the only actor fully alive had always been the holy spirit, being this an institutional spirit, such as all the other gods that have been worshipped, and that the father son narrative is a facade with which it presents itself on this plane. And of course this is plain spiritual personal opinion.
I'm afraid I can't provide a detailed answer to that, but I believe I can point you in the right direction. A proper answer would have to look into the appropriation of Greek philosophical concepts into Jewish and Christian theology, and whether Greek philosophical presuppositions combined with a monotheistic Abrahamic religion, and on the other hand the early Christians' perception of Jesus as undeniably divine, 'naturally' resulted in a doctrine of trinity. Although I'm not sure whether anyone could make such a claim with any historical certainty, I suppose one could try to argue that it was the Greek intellectual tradition that created a need to define Jesus's divinity so clearly and reconcile it with monotheism. It's definitely not an argument I'm qualified to make. Someone in r/AcademicBiblical may be able to expand on this.
As the other user already pointed out, there were strains of thought within Judaism that from our point of view resemble what developed into the doctrine of the trinity. Another good example is the personified Wisdom of God that appears in the Book of Proverbs. Later Christians of course identified Wisdom with the Holy Spirit and found all sorts of references to the Spirit (and Jesus) in the Old Testament. We should be very careful of reading too much into the texts, though. The doctrine of the trinity was born hundreds of years later in an environment thoroughly penetrated by Greek thought, and it was described using concepts that were ultimately derived from Platonic and Aristotelian theology.
From a theological point of view, the Spirit has it's place in the trinity because of the spiritual experience of Christians, and also importantly, it's appearance in scripture. J.R. Illingworth argued that the doctrine of trinity is implied by the belief in a personal god that interacts with humanity through history, and that the Spirit has an instrumental place in the order of salvation. In a somewhat similar vein, Karl Barth considered the trinity vital to understanding revelation - God reveals himself through himself by incarnation in Jesus Christ and through the Holy Spirit acting in reality.