We will happily help them secure their freedom, but let's not make light of what this war costs for the People of Ukraine.
For all the bickering and arguing, we Americans see Europeans as Brothers and helping them stand strong benefits everyone.
I can see a future with a Europe that is whole and able to defend herself alone, standing shoulder to shoulder with America as equals sharing the load as we perpetuate not American or European, but Western Hegemony over Planet Earth.
Tbh Americans and Europeans arguing has always been more like two brothers arguing who’s the better one, we don’t hate each other and are willing to help each other but neither will ever admit that their measurement system is worse than the other lmao.
The reason this EU-NATO partnership is significant is because Sweden and Finland want to join NATO but are being blocked by Turkey. While Turkey has the power to do this they don’t have the power to block NATO and the EU from more closely working together which means Sweden and Finland can get more of the benefits of NATO even if they’re not able to join outright. It should be remembered that one of NATO’s biggest strenhs is that the militaries all coordinate and standardize everything so they can essentially work together as one big unit rather than 30 independent militaries.
We will get there eventually don’t worry we are currently busy fucking over mega corporations before they take over the world, dealing with global warming on our end, helping Ukraine as much as we can both military and legally as much as we can and trying to eliminate any dumb conservative leaders left so our countries can get along better, it’s a long process because there are a LOT of countries but we will get there.
The long and short on China/NATO essentially involves the arctic, which many strategists believe will be a major Flashpoint in the near future. China is very interested in the Arctic, as is the EU and NATO. I do sort of see a future though where we would get your POTATO, but one where the Pacific countries are rolled into the current NATO and we get something closer to the GDI.