Like many issues related to international cooperation the answer is both surprisingly straightforward and extremely complex. In a nutshell, an Olympic Committee at international level was formed before any Olympic committees had been formed at national level, whilst an association of football associations at international level was formed after associations had been formed at national level. Except, of course, that it wasn’t that simple: a British Olympic Committee of sorts had been formed in 1865, called the National Olympian Association (NOA) but which ceased operations in 1883. This was probably what inspired Pierre de Coubertin to revive the ancient Olympics in a modern form; and going back even further, the NOA itself was formed from the Wenlock Olympian Society (formed in 1850), who have held the Wenlock Olympian Games since then (and I believe still do!).
5. The IFA (originally all of Ireland but now only Northern Ireland, the Republic have a separate organisation).
In the case of the United Kingdom, the organisations for various sports organised on a British level (as opposed to English/Scottish/Welsh/Irish) simply because they didn’t have the popularity or resources to organise more regionally. If we move away from Olympic sport briefly and look at the England cricket team: it isn’t actually the England cricket team (as it is always referred to as), but the England and Wales cricket team. Wales simply didn’t have enough people interested in the sport or the resources to form their own board, and merged with England to form the England & Wales Cricket Board instead. But I digress.
I am now scratching at the very limit of my knowledge here. I’m sorry if these answers are all over the place, this is the first time I’ve known enough about a subject to answer on a sub but actually getting the answer into writing is far harder than it looks.
So, in a nutshell: the ‘home nations’ compete separately because they formed national-level associations before the international-level one, and because they all sit on the board that regulates the rules.
Now onto football, and why the home nations (England, Scotland, Wales & Northern Ireland) compete individually. The first football association to be formed was The Football Association, which regulated English football and was formed in 1863 - predating the modern Olympics by 35 years. You’ll notice that the word ‘England’ isn’t in their name - that’s simply because it wasn’t necessary as they were the only one! The Scottish Football Association formed in 1873, and the Football Association of Wales in 1876.
The international Olympic committee, the IOC, was formed in 1894 (with the first modern Olympics being held in 1898). Their plan for the Olympics was quite far removed from the ultra-polished spectacle we have today; all athletes were expected to be amateurs (with the notable exception of fencers) and had to find their own accommodation. The athletes came from whoever either happened to be in Athens in 1898 or could afford to get there - the Wikipedia article says that many of the British athletes were from the British Embassy, and I remember reading that another countries entire team was made up of sailors from a ship that happened to be in port that week.
Those first games were held in Athens and despite some pretty major teething problems (mostly related to funding), were a phenomenal success. One issue was notable though: the rules for several sports were not codified at international level, so many countries played using slightly different rules to others. With the advent of an exciting era of international sport beckoning, officials in many sports were suddenly falling over each other to get their sports properly codified - in the next two decades virtually all of the major European sports formed committees, associations or federations at national and international level. Organisations were formed at international level in tennis and fencing in 1913, water sports in 1908, athletics in 1912, shooting in 1907 and many more.
There’s one other organisation which needs to be mentioned here: the International Football Association Board (IFAB) founded in 1886. Their role is to regulate the rules of the sport, and there are five members:
Other territories can form their own football associations and apply to join FIFA. As a simplification, if a territory is not under the jurisdiction of an existing football association then they can form their own (as is the case with Gibraltar, the Faroe Islands, Hong Kong, Macau etc). Some territories have their own quasi-independent associations but are not eligible to apply to FIFA (Catalonia, the Basque Region etc), whilst others could apply but haven’t for whatever reason (Greenland).
The international level of associations is FIFA (Fédération Internationale de Football Association, literally ‘International Federation of Football Associations’) and was formed in 1904. Originally it was comprised of the national associations of Belgium, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland - the FA would not join until 1905, and with the other British associations left in 1919 at protest against FIFA refusing to exclude the associations of the Central Powers of WW1. They rejoined in 1924, but the FA would again resign in protest against rules relating to payment for athletes in 1928, not rejoining until 1946. Perhaps ironically the organisation they were protesting with was the British Olympic Committee.
Conversely, the IOC will only now take applicants from independent countries which are recognised by a majority of UN states - so Monaco could go to the Olympics, but as they aren’t in FIFA can’t go to the World Cup.
I chose to continue the proud Olympic tradition of amateurism by throwing the odd typo into my answer.... that’s my story and I’m sticking to it 😂.
Perhaps I'm misreading, but that doesn't seem to answer the question "What in history led to the UK consolidating some national sports and keeping others separate?". If "England" wasn't written on the FA's tin, why didn't Scottish or Welsh clubs ask to join the FA, send representatives to meetings, offer their dues, et cetera -- or why didn't the FA reach out to them, like advertising nationwide, writing to prominent clubs outside England, et cetera?
I'm nitpicking, but the correct translations of FIFA would be "International Federation of Association Football" - meaning the _sport_ association football, not the organisations in different countries.
Basically there were two sets of rules being used: rules used by the Football Association (“London rules”) and those used by Sheffield Football Club (later Association) (“Sheffield rules”). The sport looked quite different to how it does today: for example handling the ball was allowed by any player within 3 yards of goal until 1876, when this was modified to specify it could only be handled by the goalkeeper.
To answer your question in a pretty simplistic way: the FA (as an organisation) didn’t penetrate into Scotland because there was a parallel set of rules being used in the Sheffield area. It wouldn’t be until 1877 that the rules would be merged into the Football Association rules which more closely resemble the game today. Until then many clubs were looking south with bemusement at the constant wrangling over the rules and deciding which to adopt or even whether to just make up their own!
(As a side note there was also ongoing dispute amongst other clubs who didn’t want to follow either set of rules - Blackheath Football Club left the FA just six weeks after joining in 1863 and would later be a founding member of the Rugby Football Union in 1871. This was the split between Association Football and Rugby Football, solidifying the new sport of Rugby Union. By 1895 even that had split into itself and Rugby League, forming yet another new sport with its own rules!).