It sounds like you're a victim of identity theft. Figuring out who did it isn't your job. If the police care they can track it down. Probably they won't. Fill out the forms, get the debts out of your name, and move on. If you were ever asked, you don't know who did it so say so. You won't likely be asked.
Thankyou so much for this. I'm being way too irrational, bank of misouri is way too random (we live on the east coast) for this to be her. And even if it was her I'm sure they wouldn't be able to trace it back definitively years later.
If it was her, it is either you or her that gets into trouble. It is the classic between a rock and a hard place.
Even if she did it, there's no guarantee that she gets in trouble. First of all, it was 6 years ago and, secondly, identity theft isn't exactly on the top of the list for a lot of local police departments.
If she ran up the debt, your choices become limited. You can pay off the debts or suffer the consequences of the bad credit rating.
Or your mother can suffer the consequences of racking up debt in her child’s name without paying it off.
But what is the likelihood of the ftc filing charges against her for identity theft? I havent made any phone calls, just submitted the ftc report and said I had no idea who did it. and disputed the charges on my credit agencies.
Could the bank of Missouri card could be opened in any state since its a credit card? And if the ftc did think it was her could I not press charges against her or say I gave her permission to make the charges and forgot?
Hopefully she didn't do it and hopefully she doesn't get in trouble. I'm stressing out over this so much.
ive been to court from one incident in the past involving a check that involved her. And one of the fake names on my credit reports has a last name she is friends with.
Your mom says it wasn't her. If you want, tell her that you're going to file a police report because somebody else stole your identity. If it was her, you'll know pretty quick.