It does, but multiple MLRS vehicles can work together with command and control to form a larger system.
I think they avoid calling it MLRSS to avoid confusion...but because more than 1 vehicle is involved, MLRS system is actually correct.
It brought back 13 of them in 2014 with a M270A1 modernization effort that notably removed the ability to operate cluster rockets from it.
France isn't giving their M270A1s to Ukraine, they're giving their old M270s that are just sitting in a warehouse. Nothing wrong with that though, better Ukraine use them then have them just collect dust.
Bruh... the article clearly mentions the "LRU" (Lance Roquette Unitaire), which isn't the base model M270. One does not need to speak French to guess that "roquette unitaire" means "unitary rocket" (so no cluster munitions). The LRU is the French name for the European version of the M270A1... which is basically the same thing as the German MARS II and Italian MLRS-I (the upgrade program was a cooperation involving the 3 countries).
More importantly, it is specifically what the French defense minister had spoken about sending a few weeks ago. It was reported by various outlets and what is confirmed to have been sent:
That's quite clearly the LRU. And yes, there are only 13 officially in service (with 8 operational according to a recent French Assembly report).
The plan is to get rid of the platform (the LRU and the base M270s stocked alike) and replace them by a new long range artillery platform by 2027. There is no report about France sending its old M270s to Ukraine and there probably will never be. I don't know why anyone would think France would very publicly be sending its old stocked M270 systems that are only able to operate the M26 rockets, when it literally signed the Convention on Cluster Munitions that deems them inhumane to use lmao. Neither the UK nor Germany sent their old M270s. They signed the same convention.
Last month they promised three, this might be a fourth. They’ve also sent 18 Caesars (which the AFU loves) and a number of VAB APCs. Despite the grief, France has quietly sent some pretty useful kit.
They sent them to the UK, but the UK simply sent 3 of theirs to Ukraine. Norway's M270s are still in the UK.
M270A1 - 2005 upgrade with a new fire control system and the ability to fire GPS guided rockets such as the M30, M31, M39A1, M48, M57, and M57E1.
MARS II/LRU/MLRS-I - French/German/Italian M270A1, just with an Airbus fire control system that removes the ability to fire cluster rockets due to their signing the ban on cluster munitions. Also includes a different automatic fire extinguisher system.