If you have no way of knowing which agency is responsible, there are a couple of things that come to mind: Your county prosecutor's office, your state's Attorney General's office, or the US Attorney General's office.
Which one you try might be specific to the situation -- if you think there's an issue with federal agents, going to the local DA might not be of use.
Just a couple things to bear in mind: Actual sworn LEOs have a lot of discretion to participate in or commit crimes so long as they are doing it pursuant to an investigation or operation -- by which I mean traffic laws, taking/selling drugs, trafficking in contraband, that sort of thing. They don't get a pass on crimes against people (assault, etc.).
So I'll be blunt with you: That is most likely a delusion you're having. It doesn't really match up with reality. Usually, when someone thinks something like this is going on, it turns out to be neurochemical.
They also generally don't get a pass on things like fraud (except maybe as part of a drug sting or something related).
I believe I am being electroshocked and sleep deprived by an undercover law enforcement agent who lives in the apartment unit above me. This has followed me from Florida to PA, I have reported the license plates of who I believe has been following me to local LE but they come back as regular people so I am not being taken seriously. I contacted the state police in my area and they told me to contact the local police.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Please . If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, . Do not make a second post or comment.
I know you won't believe me, but do yourself a favor and look into whether or not it might just be a trick your brain is playing on you. Brains are complicated and don't come with instructions, so having it looked at by someone who knows how brains work is a good idea.