Charles De Gaulle had a really special place within the allied powers, no doubt. Most of the allies didn't see Vichy France under Philippe Petain as neutral because of how willing they were to allow Paris to be occupied, along with how cooperative Petain's government was with Nazi Germany's demands. De Gaulle absolutely hated the Vichy government and openly spoke out against it, so naturally the allies were gonna like De Gaulle more than Petain from the onset.
De Gaulle declared himself the leader of Free France, which was the anti-Petain pseudo French government and after some help from the legendary Jean Moulin, De Gaulle became a uniting force for the French Resistance despite being in London. The resistance played a major role is creating set backs for Nazi advancement toward more of western Europe and the like. De Gaulle got the money to help them from working with the allied forces who weren't a fan of his personality, especially Roosevelt, but liked the idea of France being ruled by someone they could trust more than Petain after the war. And let me tell you, De Gaulle swore up and down that he was going to be the leader of France after the war.
De Gaulle put himself on the map with some help from Paul Reynaud, who was the Prime Minister directly before Petain. He wanted nothing to do with Petain's plans of collaboration and set De Gaulle off to London to work as an opposition to Vichy. When Vichy collapsed in 1943 and entire country of France was under Nazi occupation, De Gaulle saw a moment to sneak in and shoot his shot, and that solidified his position with the allies and victors. Even though the country of France was essentially lost, one French colony wasn't, so De Gaulle migrated/set up the entire French government in Algiers, Algeria which was still considered French soil. He took the broken bits of government that France had left and put them back together while being forced to operate the entire thing on a completely different continent. This move earned him massive amounts of respect from allied forces, so much so that General Dwight Eisenhower personally went to Algiers and promised De Gaulle that Paris would be liberated.
Once De Gaulle had a hold of the government he put every effort and resource into helping ensure an allied victory. And although they didn't have much due to a totally occupation, they still tried. It was a complete 180 from Vichy's government which had since collapsed. When German occupation was forced out and De Gaulle arrived in Paris, there was no question of his leadership from foreign or domestic powers. He did what a lot of people had thought was going to be impossible and sustained France as a power despite all the odds stacked against him and garnered a ton of respect because of it. This was also one of the reasons that the allies were willing to help France so much after the war. If Petain was still in charge after the war, I highly doubt that the allies would have been so kind.
You present a very good image of De Gaulle, and his perception from the allied leadership. What were the perceptions of the public, both french and foreign, during this time? What did they think of him?
If any of this was unclear or you have more questions feel free to ask! My specialty is in French history from 1789 to 1946 and I love talking about it.
Also, I could be wrong, but it seems that perceptions shifted in modern times against De Gaulle. Why was that?
Foreign powers were more mixed with their feelings. As someone who has studied Charles De Gaulle quite a bit, he was not the easiest guy to get along with. He was really abrasive and stubborn, which no doubt helped in the long run but made him less than ideal when faced with diplomatic issues. For example, the various French resistance groups had exactly zero interest in working together under Charles De Gaulle until Jean Moulin dramatically appeared and explained that, actually, De Gaulle could get them money and supplies if they were willing to call him their leader and work together. Two people that stick out in my mind are Roosevelt and Churchill, who both hated De Gaulle. Churchill mostly had issues with him because whenever De Gaulle could, he was constantly nagging Churchill trying to get more supplies, money, and food to France. De Gaulle was kind of a stubborn pest but with decent intentions. Roosevelt absolutely hated him too and the feeling was mutual. Roosevelt didn't like the idea of such a stubborn idealist in charge of France and instead wanted a different guy in charge, Henri Giraud, because he was more willing to bend to the wishes of the US. De Gaulle hated Roosevelt because he knew that Roosevelt was only against him for the sake of worming US interests into France, which was true. De Gaulle was a dedicated patriot and wanted to keep France French.
De Gaulle's public perception shifted heavily from his first broadcast on BBC Radio to his eventual leadership of the French government. In the beginning people had a lot of faith in Petain when Vichy was created because of Petain's efforts and victories in the first world war, particularly Verdun. They were hoping that Petain would save France after their unexpected defeat with an armistice which a lot of people supported. However, as it become clear that Nazi collaboration was doing significantly more harm to France than good, people started looking for some kind of alternative, and there was De Gaulle in London waiting for the people to start listening. As the public saw that De Gaulle was a capable leader, already close to allied forces, they saw him as a hopeful figure which was all it really took. The people of France were living in a nightmare of being round up and deported to German for labor, so any other option was better than that.
I have a couple of favorites, but they don't deal directly with De Gaulle. The Fall of France by Julian Jackson and Outwitting the Gestapo by Lucie Aubrac are two of my favorites.