Police first, definitely. They will be the folks who have the right to investigate the incident and talk to the other kids to find out what actually happened. The school cannot prevent them from investigating a suspected crime, and that’s what this is right now.
If it ends up being ruled an accident, it’s likely that the school will be liable for a lethal injury on school grounds, and in that case the parents should look for a lawyer with experience doing civil lawsuits against the school system. Since most of those folks work on contingency they may not want to get too involved while the investigation is still ongoing, but they may be motivated enough by the prospect of a future suit to help the parents navigate the investigation and helping them not ruin their potential case preemptively (by, for example, signing anything that absolves the school of liability or agrees to arbitration or anything of that nature.).
Do not let the parents sign anything the school gives them without discussing it with you or their lawyer first.
This helps, thank you. They won't sign anything and they aren't acknowledging or accepting any of the excuses the school has given so far. The school just keeps trying to drop the situation and literally told the family they should redirect their energy toward their son, ZERO compassion shown. Didn't even ask about how he was doing, their own student.
I really hope it doesn't get to that. I won't tell them right now because I don't think the mom can handle even thinking of that right now, but I will if it comes to it. The police are sending an investigator in the morning so it does look like we're going to have a proper investigation, or so I hope.
We also found a shirt that was with him when he was discovered and it's covered in blood, nobody knows who it belongs to. A bunch of his stuff is missing though and it looks like the cord his cross was on was cut with a knife or scissors. All his other jewelry is missing, and his watch.
One additional thing, which is that if he dies, he will need an autopsy. There are characteristics of wounds that can point toward an assault vs a fall, and an autopsy will be needed for that.
Another thing that's weird is they just found his glasses out in the football field but the school literally just told the family they now believe he hit his head on a fire hydrant in the parking lot. Opposite sides of the school, so what the hell. We have an email from the school nurse stating where she found the glasses so we're going to save that too.
What gets me is the road rash. How do you get road rash that bad from falling and hitting your head? Or the wound in his head. It's a literal hole. A big circular dent where his skull was shattered and concaved. It literally looks like someone hit him with a baseball bat or something.
He also has a bunch of scratches on the backs of his hands which are really weird. We took pictures of everything, too.
Edit: Also I just realized, the wound on his head is toward the UPPER back of his head. Like it starts at the upper portion of the back of his head and extends toward the top in a circle shape. How the hell do you hit the TOP of your head from a fall???
Not quite yet, that's the last option they plan to pursue. I did suggest it but they wanted to see if there were certain avenues they should go after first.
Also, if we do go that route, what's the best way to bring it up? Do we tell them we think there's a murder or..? Do we report the school? Should we ask for a certain department?
OK well if someone assaults you, the police are who you call. They're really isn't another way to go right now.
I know that sounds weird but my neighbors are very very ignorant Mormons who are essentially fresh out of a back-water cult. They're... very very uneducated. Good people, but fearful and wary. I thought if I got some solid advice here for them then we could help them pursue whatever avenue they needed to. The boy is a great kid. He's been a real hero to my son.
I am so sorry that this poor boy has been so grievously injured, regardless of how it happened, and that your son is losing his friend so tragically.