In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I ended up being a mid-level leader there, so I did not create policy, but was expected to enforce it. They wanted me to do like two Bible studies a day and several longer activities a week for the younger, volunteer staff members. But these staff were expected to work from literally dawn to dusk, and so the only time they could all make it to the Bible study would have been before sunrise. They also stayed in the group cabins with the kids 6 out of 7 days, and so generally did not ever sleep well.
I went on one when I was like 12 with a friend and the cliques were worse than highschool. I hid in the bathroom to avoid going to church as everything felt super force and pressured. I did not have fun. I had to sort of fight my way to just call my mom and ask them to pick me up. I lasted two days.
I can’t disagree with this. I was molested at church youth camp. The only time I went. My mom wanted me to make friends. I was miserable and got molested. Never again. I would NEVER send my own kids on one of these trips.
The cliques were TERRIBLE. I was 12, too. And we had just moved to that area the year before. Everyone felt so fake. I just couldn’t figure out how to get an in. I did not make friends, and I started coming up with every excuse in the book to not go to church after the experience.
I was super religious and went to a religious camp. I never made new friends at one. Luckily our camp allowed us to go in as groups, so that worked for me, but that just meant that kids going alone had it worse off.
Our camp was pretty mild on the religiousity as camps went, so I generally enjoyed it and worked there as a summer job later, but in retrospect it was not a good fit for almost anyone, as though the kids were limited to about an hour and a half of religious activity a day, the requirements for the staff was bizarre.
There was also a morning meeting at like 6:30 am (which is insanely after the prospective Bible study time) and I was repeatedly told that I had to write people up for being late or missing the meeting after they got like 4-5 hours of sleep every night for weeks in a row. They literally were working from dawn to the early hours of morning every day and their "day" off was Saturday noon to Sunday noon, so it was not even a day off. On top of that they were expected to spend their off time helping clean and set up for the next week, so they were not even off on their fake day off.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
No, it was independent. Though I did go to a Young Life camp at one point. I would say that the this one was slightly less weird than Young Life for the campers, but due to their extremely low budget and very odd independent leadership, very exploitative of the staff.
I was probably the "worst" person they ever had at my job, in that I literally did nothing, but as I was being told that my whole job was to be a religiously affiliated slave driver for 16 year old unpaid volunteers, just being there and refusing to do anything was the best thing I could do for them.
That and I constantly lied to my supervisor saying I punished them or wrote them up, but never did so.
It was illusion shattering for me. I legitimately became depressed and got angry with the people in charge and just stopped doing anything. I just gave up and refused to enforce their stupid rules or play along with their insane legalism.
Also there were just some strange extra-Christian beliefs. Christianity on its own can be pretty weird, but it has nothing on weird syncretic mixes of Christianity and new age psychology/magic.
This is something I’m really struggling with. She retired in 2015 and ended up spending a lot of time taking care of my ailing grandfather. She doesn’t have any friends so after he passed away, she has stayed glued to Fox News and gone to church much more than she did when I lived at home or even the many years up until my grandfather passed away. She’s fallen into a big rabbit hole of culture way BS that is pushed, and you can’t even talk to her about anything outside of very surface level what we’ve been up to. She had this crazy breakdown at Christmas where she gave my kids and my niece and nephew bibles as gifts and insisted my niece read this passage. I bit my tongue the whole time. My husband said if she keeps going down this path he will not be allowing us to go back. It’s gotten so uncomfortable, but my heart aches thinking about cutting her off. It’s been really difficult.