In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
But the general public has zero knowledge of the differences between type 1 and 2, and really overestimate the percentage of insulin dependent diabetics that qualify for this .
I don’t know any type 1 diabetics over 65, personally. The vast VAST majority of diabetics over that age are type 2. If they need insulin, I’m glad they’re able to get it now, but this isn’t even close to helping solve the insulin situation for the people that need it most.
To anyone confused: type 1 diabetes is generally diagnosed in youth (of course there are exceptions), and ALL type 1s need insulin to live. Pretty much everyone who’s a type 1 diabetic is still screwed, aside from the lucky ones who’ve made it to 65. But that’s a VERY tiny percentage of us.
Yeah type 1 is the genetically fucked not your fault but uncared-for diabetics in the USA. Type 2 are the generally shitty lifestyle types (I know it can be stress, etc but predominantly it's poor life choices c'mon now).
Ah yes, not bothering to vote regularly is definitely a way to show an elected official that they should cater to you on the off chance you vote that election.
If young people show up regularly, as a real voting block, then their interests will suddenly matter to politicians.
When they don’t vote, then the issues of people who DO regularly show up (usually older people) matter instead.
Yeah, that means sometimes you have to vote for the lesser evil in the general election, even if your preferred choice didn’t make it through the primary.
You’re certainly entitled to your opinion, but considering that you’re also skipping voting on local elections which are often decided by a fraction of votes, and which impact the average person’s life way more than federal officials, it still sounds foolish to me.
If you insist on not voting for either candidate, then your best bet is to still show up at the polls and just don’t vote for them. There are lots of positions on the average ballot and if you feel that strongly that you don’t care who wins, don’t chose either candidate, but there may be candidates who do interest you, and even if you turn in an empty ballot, that still signals that there was a vote that turned up that was missed.