That being said, what you describe is essentially textbook amateur historian territory. An interested party with no formal training who has amassed knowledge in a particular subject area. You should feel no hesitation in using that term to describe yourself. If you are concerned about possible pejorative context, I direct you to from , who was the president of the AHA (American Historical Association) back in 2012.
> In this usage, the amateur is no less skilled than the professional, and is honored even more because that skill was acquired without financial incentives. In this, we glimpse the oldest linguistic root of the word amateur, which is the Latin amator, "lover," which derives in turn from amare, "to love." Understood in light of this most ancient meaning of the word, amateurs are those who pursue their interest not for money but for love.
I don't use the term "history buff" disparagingly, and my own work has been greatly aided by the (sometimes obsessive) cataloging by such "buffs" (I did a project awhile back that involved a Pullman Porter train and my god, the buffs enriched my work on that). ABut there's a real difference in the _type of work_ and the _approach to history_ that buffs and historians have. Historians need not necessarily even know as much as the buffs do (at least about the details) — it's the fact that they are creating novel research questions and then writing them up and sharing them with a broader community of historians that makes the difference.
For me, the difference between a "history buff" and a "historian" is: _do you generate new research questions and answer them to the level of rigor that would be accepted by other historians?_ If the answer is "yes," then great, you're a historian, congrats. If the answer is something more like, "well, maybe I _could_, but I've never tried," then you're still in buff-land, but you could imagine transitioning, though it might take more work than you imagine (it is far harder to generate novel research questions than most people realize; it is really the hardest part of the job, aside from, you know, getting said job). And if the answer is, "but I have encyclopedic knowledge," that's great But that's not the same thing that a historian is. That's still in the territory of the "history buff.".
Happy to help. I just saw in your other post that you are 17, so instead of the graduate programs list that I posted you might want to look into these .
Note that this definition does not depend on your place of employment, degree, or anything like that. Those things are obviously _signals_ of being a historian at times (because they won't give a PhD to a buff, usually, and they won't hire buffs at universities), but there are many respectable historians who do not have PhDs and who do not work in academia. And there are some jobs with titles like "historian" which, when you look at what the person does, really ought to be renamed "archivist" or something like that, if you used my definition.
That's just my definition, as an academic historian, so you can take it for what it is worth to you. There are no accreditation boards or anything like that who regulate the title of "historian.".
I am thinking of all that a historian could do in studying Peanuts and Peanuts related things. Go get the skills of a historian and put them to use analyzing cultural effects of the comic and vice verse. Find out if anyone uses Peanuts related analogies. What about the cultural impact of the Christmas special? What about sales of fake vs wooden Christmas trees? All sorts of fun stuff. You just need some mentorship in knowing the questions to ask and the places to find answers.
Harry Collins, in _Are We All Scientific Experts Now?_, distinguishes between the kind of expertise it takes to read a subject in an informed way, versus the kind it takes to contribute to it in an informed way. It is much easier to pick up the knowledge necessary to read a subject than it is to become an active contributor to a subject. That is essentially the distinction I am using above. You definitely have this in other fields; there are far more people who read about physics (for fun, or as a hobby) than make contributions to physics, for example.
Would anyone actually be interested in hearing what I have to say about those things tho lol like would anyone read the things I produced?? Not that it really matters I guess lol, I’m interested in Peanuts because I enjoy it not because I need a job with it.
17 lol Ill be attending college next year and majoring in Spanish and either tourism and hospitality or something along the lines of global cultures (depends on the school I choose).
I’m not too active in any sub’s reoccurring events so I honestly had no idea the Saturday Showcase was a thing, do I have to sign up in a form to participate or is it a post I can just make come Saturday and if so what are the requirements?
I did not know you could choose a focus that specific lol wouldn’t u like eventually run out of content to read and learn about?😂.