Ahmed Rashid's works on the Taliban are a good source for this topic. The Northern Alliance managed to hold out in a relatively small area due to a combination of multiple reasons.
The factions that made up the Northern Alliance had previously lost huge areas to the Taliban. By 2001, the terrain they ended up in was geographically good for defensive tactics. The brutality of the Taliban to the Hazara, their breaking of agreements with the Uzbek faction of Dostum, and all factions losing territory and resources, created the situation whereby the factions of the Northern Alliance had no other choice than to stick together.
The Northern Alliance received just enough support from neighbouring states like Uzbekistan and Tajikistan to hold out. Alleged opium smuggling was also a vital source of income.
The Taliban had conquered most of the territory and population centers. The war in the north had become a stalemate. Achieving the final victory with a major offensive would have cost a lot of lives and resources. There is also an advantage to keeping the civil war going in this way, as it is easier to maintain a sort of wartime economy and authoritarian leadership when the regime remained 'under siege'.
Also, maybe less straightforward and more controversial, the Taliban had no immediate gains in achieving a final victory against the Northern Alliance.
It also diverted the attention from their foreign allies such as the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan. It would serve the Taliban's interest to have them keep fighting the Northern Alliance in an insignificant area, and divert their attention from incursions into Uzbekistan or from efforts to establish a Central Asian caliphate. Becoming more of a threat to other Central Asian states, and Russia, or potentially even China, was not in the immediate interest of the Taliban. Just like it was not in the Taliban's interest to be attacked by the United States after 9/11.
It is my understanding that Afghan governments through history - both indigenous and colonial - have always struggled to extend their rule beyond Kabul and its environs.
Was the Taliban/NA situation different in any substantial way from, say, the Soviet- mujahaheen conflict of the 70s/80s?
You are right that Afghan governments have always struggled to exert control beyond Kabul. But the rule of the Taliban is different than the Soviet/mujahedeen conflict.
It helps to frame this through the point of view that the Taliban was a grassroots rural movement that conquered the population centres, thereby enforcing their rule on the population centres from a rural support base, instead of trying to control the rural periphery from a population centre-centered support base.
An argument can be made that the growth of grassroots support for the Taliban among the Pashtun population came from the incorporation of Pashtunwali code elements into the Taliban's mode of governance. In this sense, it was the Pashtun rural periphery taking over the centre of governance. The Taliban did not extend their rule as political elites who were trying to exert their control over the periphery. They exerted control over the Pashtun rural areas because that was their original support base and subsequently took over population centres, such as Kabul, from the previous political elites.
But more importantly, put very abstract, the different warlords from different ethnic backgrounds had fought each other in ever-shifting alliances. They were all corrupt, and all committed human rights abuses of different kinds.
The Taliban offered a new way of stability. A strict fundamentalist form of governance is, whatever our moral views on it are, very effective in establishing rule of law, pacification and governance. Especially in a state ravaged by civil war and chaos. Pakistan also saw this and supported their rise as part of their strategic depth defence, while they stopped supporting their previous Pashtun subsidiaries. One by one, the Taliban defeated the warlords until they made a last-ditch effort to form the Northern Alliance.
In non-Pashtun areas, the Taliban depended on brutality to enforce their power. But then again, their form of governance was relatively simplistic and, in a way, easy to carry out and enforce.
The statement that no one ever conquered and ruled all of Afghanistan is true, but the Taliban surely were very close.