[When did the "band name" come around? As in a group of musicians giving their group a specific name.
HSH gives a really neat overview of the different types of band names (The Things, Name & The Things, and so forth). And be sure to see , for a look at bands named after more abstract entities (Garbage, Green Day, &c).
But this is also kind of a peculiar case. In the later 16th and especially 17th centuries, traveling English troupes--still designated by the English patron's name--end up as the stock court entertainment for decade+ periods of continental nobles and royals. To the extent that German lords are writing plays in German for English actors to perform! Actual French and German (at least) troupes are more likely to be noted by performer name, at least in my experience.
As for medieval: the 15th and 16th century sources that I'm familiar with for performance troupes (players, farceurs, minstrels, dancers, acrobats--there aren't always hard and fast lines) generally refer to people by their names, or name the whole group after its leader/most famous member.
'First' questions are sometimes hard for one flair to answer, because they require you to have quite a wide range of knowledge - you'll see by the wording on my flair that I know the 20th century, and will leave anything before that to someone else. Additionally, the answer depends to some extent on what exactly you mean by 'music groups' and 'names such as the Beatles'.
So, assuming that by 'names such as the Beatles', you're referring to musical groups that have abstract names which are not immediately relevant to the group's music (or their location), which aren't simply backing bands for a named singer (e.g., in opposition to 'the London Symphony Orchestra' or to 'Joe Bloggs and his Swing Orchestra'), it certainly predates rock'n'roll acts like the Beatles, and almost certainly the 20th century.
In A New History Of Jazz Alyn Shipton refers to turn-of-the-century string bands in New Orleans as precursors to jazz (who had jazz attitudes and playing styles, but were more string-instrument based rather than brass based), and names groups like the Big Four, the Excelsior, the Tio and Dublais Orchestra and the Union String Band. The Big Four and the Excelsior might count in terms of bands as abstract as the Beatles, but might also be basically descriptive (e.g., the Excelsior might be the name of the venue where they got their reputation). Shipton alsao discusses a raime band who were friends with Scott Joplin called, at first, the 'Musical Bumpers', and then 'the Five Spillers' in 1907 (Spiller being the surname of the band leader and his wife the singer, so perhaps that doesn't count) who, by the time the jazz fad started in the mid-1910s were labelling themselves as a 'jass' band. Broadly speaking, however, 1910s or 1920s jazz bands typically highlighted a band leader - Jelly Roll Morton's Red Hot Peppers, for example, or the names were self-explanatory in terms of their sound (e.g., the Original Dixieland Jazz Orchestra) or where they were formed (e.g., the Casa Loma Orchestra). The original recording of 'Mood Indigo' by Duke Ellinon and his band - usually called 'Duke Ellinon & His Orchestra' or 'Duke Ellinon & His Washinonians' on most of their records - was released under the name 'The Jungle Band', which is meant to be evocative, but is at least somewhat abstract. Outside of jazz, , which is getting on the way to abstract (though clearly the band title concretely refers to the band in a way that 'the Penguins' doesn't).
Generally, in the 1920s era where folk acts (very broadly defined, including jazz) first began to be recorded in serious numbers, bands have names like the Joe Bloggs Orchestra or the Texarkana Minstrels that are rather more concrete in literally describing the band rather than abstract. But you do get , and the , who have elements in their name that are abstract.
Not even really a phenomenon. Actors often travelled around because they were considered bad for towns and cities. The crowds they attracted spread disease and they were free to slander the local lord or monarch. It wasn’t until after Queen Elizabeth that the idea of a company of actors that stayed and performed in a theatre inside a town or city really took hold.
Early live radio performances were introduced as the Pink Floyd which I'd always assumed, perhaps incorrectly, was announcer error. I saw ads from old newspapers that billed the band as including 'the'.
You’re right that both the Rolling Stones and the Swingin’ Blue Jeans existed under those names before the Beatles hit the big time. But both bands were signed and promoted by record companies in the wake of the Beatles having more than a minor hit; if the Beatles had never existed, there would have been more pressure on them to be Brian Jones’ Rolling Stones or Ray Ennis & the Swinging Blue Genes (the Swinging Blue Genes had been a relatively prominent Liverpool skiffle group, and their conversion to rock’n’roll around 1962 was definitely influenced by the Beatles’ early success). The abstract name in 1963 was part of the magic that got them signed and in a position to be hoping to emulate their success.
After the Beatles become very very successful, very many bands hoping to emulate their success had abstract names (e.g., The Byrds, The Doors, The Swingin' Blue Jeans, The Rolling Stones, The Knickerbockers, etc) which arrived in the wake of the Beatles' success - where the charts had previously been largely filled with named singers, with occasional vocal groups or instrumental rock bands, the bands became much more prominent on the charts. The abstract non-The rock band - e.g., Pink Floyd rather than The Pink Floyd - arrives on the charts 1966, with the likes of Love, Harpers Bizarre and Cream being the early examples that were widely imitated in the later 1960s (along with, perhaps, earlier examples like Them, Sounds Incorporated, and Hedgehoppers Anonymous).
However, broadly speaking, I would date the increasingly widespread use of abstract names for musical groups that led to 'The Beatles' as dating from the African-American 'barbershop' and then 'doo-wop' vocal quartets - The Ink Spots, whose first recordings under that name date from the 1930s, being particularly influential. Generally, it's thought that the trend towards avian names in African-American vocal groups starts with The Ravens, who first recorded in 1946 (and who were soon followed by The Orioles, who first recorded in 1948, and then The Crows, the Flamingos, the Penguins, etc). Before the Beatles, there was also a trend for instrumental rock bands in the late 1950s to have entirely abstract names - The Shadows, The Champs, The Virtues, the Royaltones. But it's probably also fair to say that, after the Beatles (and to a certain extent the Beach Boys), the popularity of the abstract musical group name exploded exponentially, and that there were very few 'bands' (with an abstract name, and were self-contained in terms of having both singers and instrumentalists contained within the name) before the Beatles - the obvious influence on the Beatles being The Crickets (who had a career after Buddy Holly's death, when they were unambiguously just The Crickets rather than Buddy Holly and the Crickets).
I mean, to be blunt, the question of the origin of band names is not one that historians of pop music really give a shit about - broadly speaking, they're typically more interested in the music itself, along with the culture that surrounded it and how both evolved intertwined. So the band name thing is trivia - but it's trivia that people ask about here. As a result, there isn't an authoritative text about band names I can just refer everyone to.
So, basically, when you ask 'It's true that there are more bands with abstract names after the Beatles than before. But it's also true that there were far more bands...How can you tease this change in artist composition apart from the names of bands?', the answer is that we actually don't need to tease this change apart. The Beatles were the reason that, from 1963-64 onwards, there were far more bands, and why there were a variety of successful bands called The Abstract Names. If The Beatles had simply been called 'Beatle', and had the same level of success, there almost certainly would have been pressure from Decca on The Rolling Stones to change their name to Rolling Stone, and the Byrds - who were fairly straightforward in their Beatles fandom - would almost certainly have been Byrd.
What is the case is that the Beatles caused profound changes in the music industry, and in popular culture, and they effectively became the new norm, and were thus very widely imitated. To quote from a few different broader histories of pop (which aren't simply Beatles hagiographies):
Basically every half-decent history of rock music or pop is going to have a couple of sentences along those lines, because the Beatles really were that pivotal in changing the way that rock music was perceived by the music industry and society in general, and they were commercially incredibly successful. Whether or not you like their music - and Gillett in particular has some biting comments about the Beatles a couple of pages later -.
Record companies like EMI and Decca were - blatantly - commercial enterprises that aimed at making money. Rock bands in the mid-1960s were fairly unashamed about wanting to be very successful. And record companies very much held the upper hand, and were entirely used to substituting other musicians and rearranging the images of the bands they signed. The Beatles were, in fact, incredibly lucky to have a producer in George Martin who was willing to let the Beatles have their (in 1962) very weird idea of being a democratic group, rather than call them Johnny And The Beatles and promote Lennon or McCartney as the star in the band (as was the standard practice in the UK industry at the time after Cliff Richard and the Shadows.