In the pre-industrial world armories were necessary to be able to produce enough weapons for an army, as production was a big challenge and there had to be some standardization- muskets had to be the same caliber, and concentrating lots of skilled labor in a place where energy resources ( like water power) and materials ( like coal, iron ore) made very good sense. In the 20th c., it was no longer necessary to get weapons manufactured in one big facility- transportation could move materials, energy sources were no longer limited to location, and mass production methods had become standard industrial practice, so Reminon or Smith Corona could make 1903-A3 rifles to specification just as well as Springfield. It was also very difficult for one facility to produce enough: Springfield could not produce enough rifles for WWI , and the Italian armory at Turin, unable to make enough Carcano rifles, was forced to re-work old Vetterli rifles to use modern 6.5 mm ammo.
In the end, having a government facility make rifles became as outdated as having a government facility make fighter planes, heavy tanks, guided missiles.....the armory was replaced by the military-industrial complex.
But in essence the idea was the basis for industrial production, and soon it was used by Singer for making sewing machines, McCormick for making reapers. Why should the government build its own factories, when they already exist? Why should the Army Air Force have built its own bomber factories, when the Ford Motor Company already had them and could switch to making airplanes?
I understand why having one Arsenal wasn’t a good idea. But instead of closing down your government arsenals and moving to commercial companies for your arms; why not just start a ton of brand new government arsenals?
Isn’t the whole benefit behind having your own arsenals that you dont have to rely on private companies and can produce everything yourself? Isn’t it cheaper that way since you don’t have to pay for each gun but instead only the employees.
Because the need was gone. It was in Harper's Ferry Armory that a man named John Hall replaced an army of men with files, grinding wheels and saws, created all the machine tooling, jigs, fixtures, and gauges that made it possible to do repeatable machine operations, to get identical parts. Soon there was also a Blanchard lathe, that would carve gunstocks to be very close to finished dimension. This would be known as Armory Practice, or the American System, and it was adopted by Springfield and , soon, other armories.
This is essentially the argument for the public sector: why the police are not a for-profit organization. The armory system actually came out of abuses that happened when equipping armies was done by the private sector: circa 1660 an English colonel would be given a lump sum by the Crown to buy new equipment for his regiment, and he could buy old junk for them an pocket the difference. More and more regulations on contractors were imposed through the 18th c. to prevent this, with a greater role for the armory in the Tower, until the government established its own manufacturing armory at Enfield in 1816.
But it was finally recognized that armories could not keep up with either production or innovation, compared to private industrial contractors.. When the M1 Garand was to be replaced after WWII, the designers at Springfield were hampered on one side by the demands of the production staff who wanted to preserve as much of the tooling for the Garand as possible, and the demands of the Army on the other, who wanted a switchable-fire weapon that was impossibly light. And, when a lighter , better 7x43mm cartridge was proposed, a British design, US politicians even intervened and prevented it.
Springfield could just not keep up, either with design or production. By the time Robert McNamara closed it, Springfield was getting parts made by private contractors anyway: McNamara just completed the process.