From now on, every time you stop by, record the property and its condition so you can verify that nobody was living there.
That way if a squatter does get in, they can't print out a fake lease and forge your name and backdate it. Because if they DO do this police may say that there is nothing they can do and make you take it to court.
From what I've seen, the police will do this anyway. They have no way to verify the lease is real, or that your little 'house is unoccupied diary' is real, either. So they'll allow the squatter to stay, and say 'talk to the judge'. And by the time you wend your way thru an eviction, the place will be trashed.
I've said it before- all leases should be written (ie: verbal agreements are not valid) and notarized. Then it's a simple call to the notary to confirm. Even a cop can handle that. ).
It would inform them of delivery time so the person can speak to the driver and try to resolve things.
If they're already doing it, recording that walk-through isn't going to be any extra effort and just MAYBE gives them a slightly better chance. I'd do it for that extra bit of hope.
Edit: I would also consider turning off the electricity, and any other utilities you can. Once a squatter takes hold, you won't be legally able to turn off the utilities. So turn them off now. At least the ones you can. At the circuit breaker box, with a lock on it, keep power to the camera, maybe the heat, but everything else should be off.
Edit to add: the reason i mentioned the sender name was to point out that OP could use it to differentiate between other packages.
You need to be very proactive to prevent a person from becoming a squatter in the first place. In many areas, it only takes a few days of illegal occupation for a person to become defined as a protected squatter. And once they are acknowledged as a resident, especially with proof of an internet account, you then have to legally try to evict them in the courts, which takes time, and the professional squatters know this game.
The first thing I would do is to secure the location with cameras and alerts on any motion inside the residence. If you detect something, you must call the police on the trespasser. No matter who it is.