Can someone explain why Russia would want to sabotage Nord Stream? As far as I can see, as long as Nord Stream is in place then Russia has another card that it can use against the West: if you're nice to us then we may give you some gas; if not then we withdraw it. By destroying Nord Stream, Russia no longer has any leverage. What does Russia have to gain?
The best argument I read (in r/de) is that fingers pointing anywhere is politically destabilizing Europe, which is in Russias interest. Not sure I buy that, though.
I don't think you do. However, Russia being responsible for this would be a solution all countries in the area would be fine with. Especially since all of them would have - from my point of view - a much more compelling motivation to be behind the sabotage.
second would be personal vendetta from putin. he despises the west. he knows dying is a possibility. he doesn't want russia to turn 180° the moment he dies. russia would be pumping germany/europe with gas again. with pipelines gone russia has to start at below zero to trade with europe (below zero because reparations to ukraine would be on the table while negotiating for gas). if a perfectly fine pipeline was already in place there'd be some reperation-sheninangs via cheap gas and things would be like before. but putin doesn't want things to be like before. he wants the west to be weakened. he wants some kind of new world order no matter what.
first would be a signal warning. signal warnings are important in geopolitics and tend to be costly/risky. the pipeline was busted the same day norway-poland pipeline opened. (never ever a coincidence). shortly after that norway had many many drone-incidents at points of their ciritcal infrastructure.
and the second thing is doing crazy things is a warning to everyone. you really think its a coincidence that the pipeline bust the same day as the norway-poland pipeline got opened? followed by weeks of "drone-incidences" in norway? it was a threat. and if you think this is a threat solely to norway you dont understand. norway is crucial as an energy supplier both regarding electricity _and_ fossil fuels.