It's an mRNA vaccine, which means it'll go bad and unstable at higher temperatures (read: colder than Antarctica, in some cases) relatively quickly. It's definitely promising research, but the nature of the vaccine itself might put a damper on its usefulness outside of developed nations for mass vaccination on a recurring basis.
From what I've read, though some flus mutate somewhat fast, none mutate anywhere near as fast as COVID, and the main reason we have such a problem with the flu is because there are just so many different flu viruses and families floating around out there.
I had the flu a long time ago and it's tied with severe food poisoning for worst illnesses I've ever had. Could barely move for at least a week, felt like I was hit by a truck.
Feel better dude. The worst I've ever been sick is with the flu. Was way worse than my bout of Covid. If this vaccine pans out, it'll be a really big deal.
Progress has been made toward mRNA vaccines that, though not room-temperature long-term storable, can be shipped and distributed using less expensive dry-ice and non-cryo super cold refrigerators that run off regular line power. For instance, Moderna COVID vaccines can be stored until expiration at up to +5°F, something a conventional resi chest freezer can easily handle. Refrigerated storage up to 46°F gives you thirty days of viability, and up to 24 hours at 77°F. That's more than good enough to establish a decent supply chain in most countries that have reasonable electricity reliability, which is basically any place that has an effective supply chain for refrigerated/frozen foods and drinks. Anyplace you can enjoy a cold soda, you can have Moderna mRNA vaccines.
mRNA vaccine technology has been in development for two decades or more, and the nature of a breakthrough in a fundamental technology is that it can be built upon for faster future expansion of the technology.
There may never be a sterilizing vaccine against coronaviruses, for whatever reason the human body just can't develop long-lasting immunity against those. This is not specific to the virus that causes COVID, either, it's all the coronaviruses, four families of which cause the common cold. Immunity against those typically is gone in two years or less, and often in just 6 months. What the vaccines are extremely good at is keeping you out of the hospital and out of the morgue, and we may end up having to take that as the first major win against any coronaviruses in our history.