In simplest terms, Nazi plans for the United States were fairly ill-formed. I would begin by referring back to which covers a lot of ground here, but the main takeaway should be that conflict with the United States before the war remained something that was to happen in the indefinite future, and although this shifted by 1941, real plans for how to attack America, let alone what to do with it afterwards, still were not a priority. Practical concerns had been bandied about since the '30s, but never reached the point of any concrete discussions about imminent conflict, and what planning existed was pushed back with outbreak of war in '39.
As I touch on there, there was obviously an awareness of just how hard reaching America could be, and taking the war to American shores required a strong, deep-water navy as well as air power capable of making it that far, all of which were a part of development of naval and air assets in the '30s. Some of this fed into the insane idea that Hitler had once held of Britain siding with Germany - and thus the Royal Navy bolstering such needs, something which he continued to harbor against all odds. In any case, Japan did change the calculus to a degree, insofar as it provides more naval power to split American attention, but it didn't add all that much.
In mid-1941, Hitler provided what Herwig describes as the "clearest definition to date of his ultimate plans concerning the United States", but I would say that they are more illustrative of how vague they remained at that point. Coming from a discussion between Raeder and Hitler, the Naval War Staff diary recorded:
Again, it is fairly telling. Although the potential of how to wage war with America had been disused prior of course, in '39-'40 it had mostly focused on reaction to American entry rather than German provocation - such as the need to act quickly to prevent capture of the Azores. Only now, in July of '41, is planning seriously shifting to the potential of actual war with the United States in the imminent future, and at that it remains quite vague, with Hitler vacillating back and forth about how immediate it might need to be. Hitler's unfounded notion of British willingness to not only make peace, but enter the German sphere, continued to play a part here, in August of '41 opining that:
As you can see, this also is a step back from the bellicosity of July. Although America's entry into the war in December ensured that Britain would not be seeking peace, although as noted, this was seen as a positive, since Japan's navy would serve essentially the same purpose. And of course, Hitler still remained dissuaded, opining in '42 that:
Still though, war did mean better plans were required at this point, but again, the plans being constructed were much more basic, about how to even strike at America in the first place. In Spring of 1942, the Luftwaffe's "Tasks for Long-Range Planes" proposed the construction of long range bombers, either upgraded FW200s or else the ME-264, which never entered production, being based on the French coast in Brest, or alternatively the Azores, and supposedly penetrating as far as Indiana. Nothing ever materialized, and when he wasn't dreaming about an alliance with Britain, Hitler too was more reasonable in his estimations, such as the remarks he made to the Japanese ambassador in early 1942 that "How one defeats the USA, he does not know yet". The core considerations were practical, and forever remained hard to surmount, and an awareness that even once war had begun, it was a ways off.
Beyond these vague plans though, what more was there? Very little. There is which speaks to the division of South America, but it had little basis in reality, despite Roosevelt's reference to it in an October, '41 speech. A forgery of British intelligence, it was at best based on vague information from Nazi agents in South America, but certainly not a German product. It should be telling that James P. Duffy's book Target America: Hitler's Plan to Attack the United States doesn't even seem to cover this, not having read it myself, but based on the index only spins out the above, and discusses espionage and such in Latin America, without anything about actual plans for occupation.
Essentially that we know quite little about German plans, or rather we know that there is very little to know. The practical concerns about how even to take the fight to the shores of America were never laid out in considerable detail, and contrary to the impression the Ken Burns documentary may give, there is nothing to indicate that Germany had some administrative apparatus prepared and ready to go for the mass occupation of the United States either. If anything it is more of a reflection of American fears, however unfounded, about the potential reach of the German threat, than the reality of it. We can only speculate about the truth behind the anecdote, be it a misunderstanding, or an outright false memory, but it certainly doesn't reflect the degree of preparation that German had undertaken in reality.
If we want to speculate on how Germany might have ramped up direct pressure on the American mainland, the rudimentary plans for the Amerikabomber is perhaps the best to look at if we want something concrete, even if that too never made even close to the production stage of development.
It ways fascinated me just how close U-boats got to American shores, sometimes even sinking ships off the coast of Long Island and Rhode Island, not far from New York City.
Herwig, Holger H. Politics of Frustration: The United States in German Naval Planning, 1889—1941. Little, Brown & Co., 1976.
Hauner, Milan. "Did Hitler Want a World Dominion?" Journal of Contemporary History 13, no. 1 (1978): 15-32.
Thompson, John A. . "The Exaggeration of American Vulnerability: The Anatomy of a Tradition," Diplomatic History, Volume 16, Issue 1, Jan. 1992, 23–43.
I'm not entirely sure what you are asking here, but certainly it was readily understood that they were trying to destroy as much shipping bound from the US to the other Allied powers. It was very straight forward in that regard.
Weinberg, Gerhard L.. A World at Arms: A Global History of World War II. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2005.
Weinberg, Gerhard L. Germany, Hitler, and World War II: Essays in Modern German and World History. Cambridge Uni Press, 1995.