You see, as soon as they have enough fissile material it becomes quite easy (for a State, mind you) to make a bomb. Also, bombs are relatively small, so easy to hide. A military nuclear program can only be stopped by military means if it is in the production of fissile material stage, as the Israelis did before with Iraq and Syria. After that it is fait acompli.
If you have enough enriched Uranium or Plutonium making a bomb is very easy. For an individual even.
What he said is correct, but it wouldn't be a very impressive explosion. The reason nuclear weapons are complex is that getting decent yields is somewhat difficult (and pretty much all classified). Plutonium is bloody hard to machine as well.
It's basically 1/2 the fuel in a bowl shape, 1/2 in a sphere to fit the bowl and slam them together hard. 15-20m of gravity is enough energy.
Irrelevant, where is the final warhead? Where is the rocket? I asked for sources on ukraine having the capability to deploy nuclear arsenal, funny how you based your fantasies on this instance, hell, why don't all countries have nukes if it's this easy?
It is easy to create an inefficient bomb that fizzes a bit and makes a lot of mess. There is a lot more complexity to creating an efficient bomb that has a decent yield (neutron reflectors, etc).
Going from no nuclear weapons to having nuclear weapons with decent yield is a multi-year programme (or has been for every country that has done so, including Israel and South Africa who both did it illegally). Plus having an expermental weapon with no delivery system is very different than having a production ready system.
I personally have no issue with Iran having nuclear weapons. If they use them they get wiped out. If Israel gets out of hand, Tel Aviv gets a kicking. Keeps everyone fair (and ensures no one uses them).
It's not nonsense, and even if they can rebuild the nukes, they're very cash strapped to the point they sold many airplanes, tanks, and ships for scraps. Including the hull of a Kuznetsov-class carrier to china for only $20m.