Send her a formal 30 day eviction notice. Evict her legally through the courts. If she willingly leaves do not give her anything until every single belonging of hers has left the premises in her hands.
I'm considering this but she's put us through so much we want her gone ASAP because of safety concerns and for peace of mind mostly. Aside from her suicide threats, since she's been here she has had major meltdowns over very little things and has made us so uncomfortable to be home. Without giving the cringe details she's very obsessed with us, especially my husband, and barely works so she pays us $500/m to pay us back for fixing her extremely expensive car engine but most times trashes parts of our place and sleeps all day or sits in the dark room sulking and telling us its because we don't want to hang out with her so she'd rather sleep her life away to make us feel guilty. She's had manic episodes when her moving out comes up so we sleep with a knife nearby in case she tries something, and we really believe she might. Do you think not outing ourselves to the office is a mistake considering all that? I understand we'll take a credit hit but we'd be able to move faster and get away from her.. I prefer that route just to force her out fast in an unpleasant way for her for everything she's put us through but I'll go with the 30 day notice if you don't think its worth it.
You could try calling for police/ambulance stating that this person is making suicidal statements the next time she does it, and that you do not feel safe having her in your house.
She can sue you for unlawful eviction if she does not agree to leave. Absent a lease, she is a legal month to month tenet. The 30 day notice must be sent through certified mail. If you are evicted because of her, you will take more than a credit hit. Yes, it’s always a mistake to break your lease. It is a legally binding contract.
Calling someone when she says something suicidal is a bit tricky in this case. When she first moved in she'd do it often and tricked one of her facebook friends into believing she was in danger of killing herself by saying suicidal things and asked if she wanted to see how cut up her wrist was, so that person friended me online and begged I check on her but she was sleeping soundly cut-free. At that time we told her no more suicidal threats or we'd have to consider kicking her out. So she stopped saying those things to us but she still convinces people on facebook she's suicidal and is actively hurting herself to the point we received multiple other friend requests begging to check on her and even an occasion where cops showed up for a wellness check on her because someone was worried and called. But suicidal or not she always acts normal and denies anything happened. But we keep the screenshots.
I would also not bring her back in after you do eventually get her out. Hospitals cannot discharge somebody unsafely; they will find her a place to go if you say she cannot return to you.
It’s really not cruel of you. This person needs psychiatric evaluation, and likely medication or an adjustment on her current medication to be stabilized. You’re not a psychiatrist, and she’s not experiencing quality of life.
Also, there is a lot more she's done but its too much to type out. But the latest thing is that 4 days ago she told us she found someone to move to in another state and had someone over to pack for her yesterday while she sat in bed wailing about not wanting to leave and today, the day before she was scheduled to leave, her friend changed their mind suddenly (seems convenient) but she insisted to us she was searching frantically to still move this week so we went to buy her boxes. But while we were out she texted us she's not leaving and is accusing us of illegally forcing her out and taking advantage of her anxiety to bully her, etc. So we sat her down and she was extremely rude and told us her friends told her we cant make her move and that they think we're trying to force her into some threesome sexual situation and that we're forcing her out because she denied but nothing like that has ever happened. And she admitted she didn't correct them. (SORRY for the rant but I'm extremely aggravated by this whole thing).