Double-crusted pie was how late medieval Europeans "packaged" street food to go. This was convenient for the purchasers and eaters, of course. But we know from court records that it held some extra possibilities for especially...ambitious...sellers.
They claimed to the court that Passelewe had deliberately sold them bad, life-threatening meat that was "an abomination to mankind--to the scandal, contempt, and disgrace of.
In 1351 London, Henry de Passelewe sold two chicken pies to Henry Pecche and his friends. Ravenously hungry, Pecche was halfway through the first pie when he realized the meat was rotten. The group of friends then opened up the second pie: also rotten.
^1 Another, similar cased used the phrasing, "abominable to the human race, to the scandal and opprobrium of the City and the manifest danger of the plaintiﬀ and his friends." This appears to have been rote legal language in English court records, which is why the Middle Ages are the best ages.
The court called in several other cooks and food-sellers in London to testify--per frequent medieval practice, based on Passelewe's fama rather than an ability to examine the relevant pies for themselves. A fiction writer might make up an interesting backstory for Passelewe here, because they witnesses easily concluded that the chicken had indeed been unmistakably rotten when it was into the pies. He had deliberately used the "container" as a disguise for his fraud.
Along with the pie crusts, there's some textual evidence for disposable and biodegradable methods of takeout. Catullus (84-54 BC) described the writings of another historian as "only fit for wrapping up mackerel".
It's worth pointing out that back then the "pie crust" was not a flaky pastry made with fluffy white flour and butter or lard, rather it was stuff like "huff paste" made out of whole grain coarse rye flour and water, only sometimes with any fat at all and then typically just suet. Think hardtack rather than fluffy modern pie crust or biscuits. These crusts were typically not eaten by the pie eater, and would have been discarded, given to servants, or fed to livestock. However, a properly cooked pie could preserve the food inside for a very long time, potentially even months.