Likely none, as most HOAs have board members' terms expire as a function of the passage of time. However, as you describe things, he's likely to continue acting as if he does have that authority, including doing things like spending money out of the common fund (using whatever signing authority was established when he was elected) and trying to pass and enforce rules. It may take a special general meeting (or, if that fails, litigation) to sort out who sits on the board, and it may take substantial investigation by the new board to determine whether it's worth trying to undo past spending or whether it's better to start from where the HOA is today.
It almost certainly means that they are not enforceable until they are properly recorded and the owners are properly notified. While the Board can pass rules, individual Board members cannot just make up rules and enforce them without following the process.
If the vacancies mean that Board meetings cannot reach quorum, then the Board is, for all intents and purposes, crippled until the requirements regarding interim replacements or the election of new board members are satisfied.
You're almost certainly better off getting the members together and calling for a special general meeting, to appoint a new board of directors, rather than suing the HOA to dissolve and elect the board or trying to get your county courts to appoint board members.
Massachusetts has relatively loose HOA governing laws, so a lot of this will ultimately come down to the contents of the master deed and your HOA's current bylaws. If there's a dispute about which edition of the bylaws is the true one, then things will be messy. I would _strongly_ encourage you and your fellow owners to get a local attorney involved to review the status of your HOA and advise you.
Thank you so much for the detailed reply. We were considering forcing a special meeting, but since he opted to call a meeting himself, and he almost certainly wants to resign/get a replacement board up and running (he's mentioned it before), we decided to just focus on making sure that the meeting reaches quorum and new leadership is in place. We're hoping to avoid getting attorney's involved and instead just getting a new, functioning board up and running and start properly documenting things going forward. We're not worried about past spending; he's not good at managing people, but is pretty good at managing the building, and he has been willing to open the books to unit owners when requested (that is also part of the bylaws). He also does generally have the best interest of the building at heart.
One quick point of clarification if you don't mind. While the condo rules were not recorded with the Registry of Deeds, the bylaws make it seem like recording is an optional step to establish absolute proof, and he has notified new owners of this policy (even though he never enforced it). If he could somehow produce evidence that the bylaws were voted on in the past when the board had three or more members, would that make them legitimate? (I totally understand if this question is too speculative, you've been super helpful already, thanks again for your time.).
If you've got a prospective board ready to step up and feel confident you have the votes, it may not be worth plumbing that particular hole. The new board can amend the rules to reflect the members' wishes today, complying with the bylaws, master deed, and state laws in the process, and obviate the whole question of whether the existing no-pets rule is valid or not.
If I could suggest something to the acting board, it would be not to make substantial changes to rule enforcement when there's an upcoming general meeting, and to get those changes on the agenda there, instead. It does him no good to start enforcing the existing rule if the incoming board is going to repeal it or stop enforcing it again.
So far as I can find, state law only requires that the master deed be recorded (and recorded again when amended). Bylaws and rules are an internal issue to the corporation, and while the members have rights regarding records, they don't automatically have a right to throw out a rule on the basis that it isn't publicly recorded. , paragraph (c) onwards, covers the mandatory recordkeeping around the business of the association.
Check your bylaws for secretary to call an immediate meeting. My condos HOA has a petition the secretary with signatures of 66% of owners.
Also the ByLaws should state the minimum number of board members. Own mine the Board can appoint people to fill the open seats.
Also in regards to the dog policy if they are going to enforce this ban with fees? If so don't pay after the election ask the HOA new board to waive the fees.
The HOA board doesn't need to record rules with the county for them to be enforceable in most case. It needs to go through a comment period, then be voted in by the HOA board. Unless this rule was in the CC&Rs, or you have unusual bylaws or CC&Rs it wouldn't need a homeowner vote.
We definitely could call a meeting (we only need 33%), but we probably couldn't get the meeting on the books any sooner than the meeting he called himself. He's below the minimum number of board members, and even the number required to hold a quorum. We can probably hold everything off until after the election, but I'm afraid he might do something drastic in the meantime (he once tried to take me to collections for a special assessment I already paid; wasted the better part of a Saturday going through bank records to prove that I actually overpaid by $350. Took another two months to get the refund).
It would likely cost $10k+ in legal fees to sue the HOA. The courts won't just appoint someone to the board because they sue the HOA, that would only apply if a homeowner was elected, but the current board fraudulently recognized someone other than who was elected.
It is hard to say about a specific case, but if this homeowner was appointed to the board, no one submitted nominations for an election, their positions do not expire after a set time and run until someone else is elected, and your docs allow for quorum with just a board president the actions could be valid. If all of that isn't true potentially you could sue to challenge any fines they issue, or any other HOA business they act on without authority.
Well, the docs define a quorum of the board as at least two members, so he's certainly not reaching that. There is language stating that board members will remain past their terms, but their fairly specific language making it clear that it can't be in conflict with any other terms laid out for how appointments and elections are handled; basically, the language makes it sound like nothing short of of a crisis should prevent proper appointments, and he's not even trying to hold elections. The language regarding board elections and appointments is also very specific, and states that these appointments start from when the Registry of Deeds receives the documentation. The only time that the registry of deed wouldn't be notified is when a board member is appointed by a court, and this guy claims to be elected.
The path forward here is to hold an election, convince enough neighbors to volunteer and vote. Then change the rule.
Woah, thank you so much! This is exactly what I was looking for, and I never would have found it on my own. Seriously, I cannot thank you enough for this.