Before I go through the history of the Hagia Sophia's mosaics under the Ottomans, I think the most important thing to emphasize is the sheer scale of the building.
from Thomas Whittermore's investigation of the Hagia Sophia during the 1930's gives a really good sense of the scale we're talking about here. Note that this is taken from the upper galleries of the Hagia Sophia, which are as the aisles on the first floor, let alone even comparable to the nave itself, which is gigantic.
With the sheer scale of the building emphasized, much of the following history will make some sense:
When Constantinople fell to the Ottomans in 1453, the Hagia Sophia, much like the rest of the city was subject to indiscriminate looting for three days following the end of the siege.
Mehmed did not want his future capital to be a smoking ruin, but he had to appease his troops, who had been through hell to take the city. On the third day, Mehmed went into the city as quickly as possible, directly towards the Hagia Sophia, fearing the worst.
Mehmed immediately ordered his troops to stop, and declared that they should be satisfied with the loot and slaves, but that all the buildings of the city were his. Mehmed got the soldiers and remaining priests out of the building, and then went towards the altar of the church, and began demolishing it. After he was done one of the Ulama climbed what remained of the pulpit and recited the Shahada, inagurating the building as the Imperial Mosque.
With the exception of the altar being demolished, it doesn't appear Mehmed did much else to the buildings decoration. Even the huge image of Christ on the dome supposedly remained visible for over a century after the conquest.
When he got there the church was supposedly in a desolate state. His troops had broken into the church and indiscriminately enslaved, raped or slaughtered the refugees and priests within the church. Even three days later when Mehmed arrived, some priests and refugees were still hiding in obscure corners of the church. Other soldiers were supposedly hacking away at the marble in the building.
The first thorough documentary evidence we have of the Hagia Sophia's mosaics is from the early 18th Century. Following Charles XII of Sweden's disasterous defeat against the Russians at the Battle of Poltava (1709), he and many of his compatriots went into exile in the Ottoman Empire.
One of Charles XII officers, Cornelius Loos made many detailed drawings of the Ottoman Empire during the Swedish exile there, the most important for us being his drawings of the Hagia Sophia.
Loos' drawings are significant because they show many mosaics which have now completely dissapeared. His drawing of the shows exceptional mosaic vaults, which appear to have been completely untouched by the Ottomans. Although it is noteworthy that the famous mosaic is not present, seemingly having already been plastered over.
His drawings of the nave show a similar story. While the apse appears to have been , retaining the mosaics of the Virgin, Archangels and John V Palaiologos, the great arches on the north and south have been and some of the windows have been made smaller. For comparison, this is what we know of their .
The Ottoman policy during the 15th-18th Century appears to have been one of pragmatism. They would only whitewash the lowlying, easy to cover up mosaics, and the larger, harder to reach mosaics were plastered over when repairs were needed.
The erasure of the mosaics on the Tympana for example, can be attributed to the restoration by the Ottoman Chief Architect Mimar Sinan, who made the windows of the Hagia Sophia smaller to stabilize the structure during the reign of Sultan Selim II.
We do also have reports of conmen selling mosaic tesserae from the Hagia Sophia as 'gemstones' during this period, which seems to suggest that some of the mosaics were looted or hacked away at occassionally, albeit not by approval of the Ottoman Government.
Shortly after Loos' visit however, the Hagia Sophia's apperance changes dramatically. By the late 18th Century the interior of the building has .
The vaults are now covered in white plaster, the Seraphims have had their faces covered and all the smaller mosaics have been completely whitewashed. Why the sudden change?
Thank you, this is really interesting. I visited Hagia Sophia about a decade ago - it was incredible, but that peeling plaster was very evident and dismaying to see.
Going through the renovation history of the Hagia Sophia, this plastering likely happened during a renovation by Sultan Ahmed III in the 1710's, briefly after Loos was there.
Now we don't know exactly why the Ottomans were suddenly concerned with covering up all the mosaics in the 18th Century, but here's my theory:
The Ottoman Empire in the early 18th Century was in a very difficult position, especially compared to earlier centuries. Having just lost the 2nd Siege of Vienna, the Ottoman Empire was now on the defensive for the first time in centuries, its heartland was no longer safe and was subject to invasions by the Holy League.
The Ottoman Empire's future was now in question, arguably for the first time since the Crusade of Varna in the 15th Century. I imagine the prominent appearance of Christian Mosaics in the Imperial Mosque during these times must have made some uncomfortable.
Before, these mosaics could be interpreted as a symbol of conquest. The Ottomans were proud to show these mosaics, proud to show that they had taken a Christian place of worship and made it their own.
The ultimate destruction of the mosaics however, had ironically nothing to do with the Ottomans, or even Muslims. In the 1840's the Hagia Sophia was showing signs of neglect, some of the columns were leaning, the walls were showing signs of caving in. Seeing that the Mosque was in urgent need of repair, Sultan Abdulmejid I hired two Swiss architects, Gaspare and Guiseppe Fossati to conduct repairs on the building.
As they were doing this, they constantly discovered mosaics beneath the plaster, the plaster applied during the 18th Century had ironically preserved them in miraculous conditions. Amazed by the artistry of these mosaics, the Fossatis covered them up in temporary tarp and invited the Sultan for advice.
The Fossatis began their work in 1847. As they were stabilizing the structure, they also pealed off the 18th Century plaster to replace it with new work (their plaster murals are what you still see in the building today).
Upon inspection, Sultan Abdulmejid suggested the Fossatis document the mosaics and cover them up again with plaster, to preserve them for future generations.
The Fossati plasterwork unfortunately, was not applied well. Even today the plaster is constantly and gets miscolored due to its constant decay. Residiue from rainfall also causes the plaster to become moist, which further contributes to it peeling off slowly.
As this plaster started peeling off, the mosaics underneath were being dragged down with them, and were completely destroyed. In the 19th Century, European visitors report tiny pebbles constantly dripping from the ceiling (could these be the mosaic pieces?).
In short, there was no single policy in regards to the Hagia Sophia's mosaics. The attitude towards them changed and evolved constantly during the buildings time as a Mosque. Their ultimate decay and destruction ironically had nothing to do with religious iconoclasm or vandalism, but rather poorly applied, ugly plasterwork done by Swiss architects.
In the 1930's the building was studied extensively by the Byzantine Institute of America, during their studies several mosaics were uncovered.
While many mosaics had dissapeared since the Fossati's recorded them, or had been heavily damaged, several others were in near pristine condition. Following suggestions by the Institute, Mustafa Kemal, President of the Turkish Republic ordered the Mosque to be converted into a museum.
It's interesting how so much of what we see in major historic buildings, at least in Europe, are mostly 19th century restorations, whether done well (eg, Notre Dame before last year) or not so well, as in this case.
No problem, if you have any further questions about the building or want some more detail about some things I mentioned (there was alot of information I had to compress for it to fit within the character limit), don't be afraid to ask.
Another important difference would be that the windows would have been much larger compared to today. Infact during the 1980's, some of the exterior plaster on the tympana were removed to show off the of the windows. The on the outside of the building were also not present at this point.
What is the most accurate image of the original look of the church? (even a digital reconstruction using all the info available with be great). Thanks!
Indeed. Part of me really wishes they'd replace that awful plaster with something a bit more durable. They don't have to change the patterns or anything, but that plaster has to be repainted constantly, and it never looks good because it gets discolored and begins peeling extremely quickly.
The main difference that would strike you compared to today, would be that instead of the vaults being covered in , they would all be decorated in gold mosaics. The difference in apperance this would make on the upper vaults is demonstrated really well by the of the church fathers in the northern Tympanum. The mosaics on the inner narthex are aswell, so they also give an idea of how the ceiling would have looked before it was plastered.
Well that depends on what you mean by 'original'. The Hagia Sophia was subject to constant changes, additions and alterations long before it became a mosque. Already 20 years after its completion it had been signficiantly altered.
Well, in that case I'll just pick the period we know the most about, which would be around the 10th-12th Century. After the renovations of Basil II but before the mass looting during the 4th Crusade.