Most districts in Oregon are required to take attendance within the first 10 minutes of school (this stems from the Kyron Horman disappearance). You might also want to ensue that he was marked absent and they notified you.
Certainly this is an outrageous circumstance and you should work closely with the district to see it corrected and not allowed to recur.
As far as legal counsel goes, I’m not sure, thankfully, what you’d sue for. The what-ifs here are huge and deeply troubling. But you can’t sue for what might have happened.
That driver is probably fired, but if they aren't they clearly need retraining. Absolutely report this to ensure that happens, and that the bus company is promoting a compliant atmosphere (and not cutting corners). Follow up with the bus yard to see what corrective action or discipline were taken, same with the school. If you have to, escalate to your department of motor vehicle. We'd hear horror stories about this kind of thing all the time, and (at least the company claimed) they were exposed to civil and criminal repercussions for this.
Where I was licensed, it was not just company protocol, but required by state regulation that after your route you check your bus for missing children. Basically any time you park your bus or start it up, there are pre and post trip checks which you must know by heart to get licensed - and checking for children is part of both.
NAL, former school bus mechanic. Where I worked was a school bus dealership and all of our buses had a safety feature where even if you cycled the key, you would then have to walk to the back of the bus to press a button. This was yo ensure you walked the bus to check for any children still on the bus. If this button was not pressed, then an alarm would go off until the button was pressed.
Yes! You'd (probably not) be surprised how many folks jog to the back without checking anything, hit the button and then jump out the back. This feature wasn't on all of our buses back in my day, but I wouldn't be surprised if it's required now.
"...Not allow pupils to leave the bus except at their designated stop without the authorization of school officials".