1. Predestination didn't mean you were automatically saved, it meant you were born with the capacity to be a good enough person to have faith to be saved?
The question of a faith-based versus an action-based soteriology (ie. salvation theory) is a difficult one, and is not only limited to the Calvinists. It was a huge and complicated theological debate, especially during the Reformations, and one of the central gripes of many of the Reformists (Martin Luther included) was, specifically, the idea that your actions did not decide whether you would be saved or not. Lending to this specific question is also the history of the debate about predetermination, the question of the church's role in the material world and the historical context of anti-Catholic polemics.
While I am no expert on Calvinism specifically, I think I can answer your question by explaining the general outline of the above complexities.
First of all, on the question of predetermination. While predetermination, and the discussion of its intricacies, had existed within the church since St. Augustine, it was brought up again in full power by the Reformists. Each one had their own specific theology, but most (including Melanchton, Luther and Calvin) were staunchly predeterminist. Calvin, especially, had predetermination as the very core of his theology, and he brought it up in almost all of his sermons.
Now, the thing to remember about predetermination is that there really is no way of knowing whether or not someone is predetermined to be saved. Calvin tentatively believed that one could make an educated guess based on how often a person went to church and did good deeds (we'll get back to this), but generally, the idea of predetermined salvation was a hypothetical one; it was great for complicated theological debates between scholars, but not much use when it came to determining how to practice Christianity in real life. One must also remember that predetermination, at least according to Calvin and the other reformists, was never supposed to be random; it was not so much that you were predetermined to be saved, as it was that your were predetermined to be a faithful and good Christian so that you would in the end be saved. That is to say, it \did\ matter what you did and believed in your life, since this would be the deciding factor in whether your soul was among those predetermined for salvation. This leads us to the question of actions versus faith.
The soteriology of both Luther and Calvin was based on the dogma of sola fide - 'faith alone'. What this meant, in theory, was that the sole thing determining whether a person is saved or not is whether or not they have faith in God, and not whether they do good deeds in their life. In practice, though, the Reformists believed that someone who had faith would naturally do good deeds, and so the end result was.. pretty much the same. So why the distinction? Theologically, it was based on a certain reading of the Pauline Epistles. But functionally, it was a way for the reformists to condemn the Catholic Church's selling of indulgences as a way to gain salvation. If your salvation is based on faith alone, then there is no way to buy yourself to heaven - neither by buying indulgences, going on pilgrimages or fighting crusades. So sola fide makes it impossible to gain vast riches and power by dangling salvation over the heads of believers, and takes away the Catholic Church's main income.
This is not true for Calvin since, as in all things, he goes a bit further than Luther. He demanded that all people should live imitatio christi - that is, imitating Christ in their way of living, and that this should be instituted on a structural level. This included the establishment of a State of God. Basically, he saw the Bible as a book of law, and believed that society should be structured entirely based upon it. This meant that there was to be no separation between church and state, and a perfect Evangelical society should be built for the good of the good Christians.
So in conclusion, Calvins Evangelical society was built to provide a perfect example. While not everyone was predetermined for salvation, he still believed that society should be held to a rigorous moral standard (and perhaps this would lead to more good Christians predetermined for salvation being born in that society?). While this can still seem confusing, it's because.. well, predetermination and its practical effects is confusing. It was confusing to the Reformists as well, who spend their careers either trying to avoid talking too much about it (like Luther and Melanchton) or trying at lenh to explain it (like Calvin). There's a reason it's been an active theological debate for almost 2.000 years.
Lastly, there is the question of the two regiments. How, according to the Reformists, should the world be ruled? Martin Luther had his idea of the two regiments, the worldly and the spiritual. According to him, the two should have nothing to do with each other. The state is in charge of keeping an orderly and peaceful society while protecting the church, and the church is to own no land or armies, but only focus on spiritual teaching. In Luthers worldview, the ideal world would have good Christians as judges, lords and kings, but the church should have no worldly power while the state should have no spiritual power.
To answer your final question, I can say that it was definitely something brought up by numerous Catholic polemicists as a critique of Calvinism and Lutheranism. But, qua all of the above, I know of no Calvinist theologians who saw it as a valid point. If anyone else knows more, I'd love to hear about it.
I hope this answers your question halfway-comprehensively. I realise it's a mess, but when it comes to theological dogma and Church history, things simply become very complicated very fast, so I've done my best to try and boil it down.
Unfortunately, none of the sources I have at hand are in English, but I can try to dig something up.