In summary “Pirates participated in the slave trade, Pirates were racist towards blacks and didn’t see black crew members as equal, black crew members were usually slaves on private ships.”.
There's also on "How did Indonesia and Malaysia become majority-Muslim when they were once dominated by Hindu and Buddhist kingdoms?" by /u/PangeranDipanagara who has sadly deleted their reddit account, but had a history of writing extremely detailed answers.
This period of piracy has a much different character, as it was largely part of the decades long-struggle between the Ming and Qing, and then the continued fighting between the Qing and Ming loyalists. Again, piracy can depend on perspective, as to the Ming loyalists they were fighting for the legitimate rulers of China, not engaging in piracy. This piracy was also systematic, on the scale of a state navy, not the entrepreneurial individual crews of the Mid-Ming. As such, the crews largely recreated the hierarchies, patriarchy, and Confucianism of their opponents. Whereas the multicultural crews of the mid-Ming defied state authority and often had norms sharply opposed to those of the Chinese state. The Ming-Qing transition saw both the pirates and the state largely mirrored in their norms and hierarchies.
The linked answer speaks in great detail about the “Golden age of Piracy” in the Caribbean. And I can add a little about the Chinese situation. Similar to piracy is the west, where the Golden age resulted from European inability for several decades to effectively project naval force to places such as the Caribbean. There were several periods when piracy flourished on the Chinese Coast and in the South China Sea. These periods generally coincided with a breakdown of Imperial Chinese state authority. The three periods historian Robert Antony identifies are:
The common western example is how Sir Francis Drake was a hero and privateer to England and pirate to Spain. This marks both European piracy in the mid-Ming phase, as well as the Ming loyalists during the Ming-Qing transition. Pirates are those who commit a particular crime, piracy. But different legal authorities or jurisdictions might recognize the same action very differently.
Imperial force projection and control were weakest at the periphery, in the mid-Ming this meant most banditry and challenges to state authority were concentrated in the South, in regions such as Fujian. Piracy thus also was concentrated here. The pirates were characterized in much of the primary literature as Japanese, but in reality were predominantly Chinese. Sources also cite the presence of Malaccan, Siamese, Portuguese, Spanish, and even African sailors. This is the most cosmopolitan period of Chinese piracy. The sources I’ve read make only passing mention of the African sailors. But cooperation between Chinese and European pirates seems to have been on a reasonably equitable basis. Given what is known, and as this period overlaps with only the beginning of the Atlantic slave trade I would speculate that African sailors were not treated all that differently during this period of piracy. However the record is limited Following the Portuguese conquest of Malacca in 1511, the first wave of European “explorers” to arrive in East Asia often engaged in conquest or open piracy and banditry. Despite this, they tended to be regarded as explorers and merchants by their home nations, because ‘pirate status’ is often dependent on perspective, a point I will return to. Over time, as European nations exerted greater control over their countrymen in East Asia, this independent entrepreneurial sort of violence declined. But to reiterate, this European piracy in East Asia often included significant Chinese or other East Asian participation or collaboration.
The pirate crews in the record are overwhelming Chinese with some token Vietnamese participation. Similar to the Ming-Qing transition, this explosion in piracy was driven by a breakdown of Imperial Authority along the Guangdong and Fujian coast which had diffuse causes. This is sort of tied up in China’s calamitous nineteenth-century. When technology, foreign threats, Malthusian pressures, ecological pressures, and a variety of other factors caused a major decline in standards of living for most of the population. This caused similar breakdowns in authority during the period 1780-1810 such as the Lin Shuangwen uprising on Taiwan, The White Lotus rebellion, and the Triad Revolt near Canton. In any case, stagnating incomes and rising prices caused many to turn to piracy, with as many as 70,000 pirates and thousands of ships when the phenomenon peaked. Like the Ming-Qing phase, these pirates coalesced into large fleets of thousands of participants and set up parallel state institutions in the form of protections rackets, with professional record-keeping, networks of tax collectors, and often investment and support by powerful local merchants, gentry, and landowners. Underpaid government garrisons often sold supplies to pirates, and under-resourced officials often turned a blind eye. As with the Ming-Qing transitional outbreak, piracy during this period largely recreated the hierarchies present on land, though there were some notable female pirates and some evidence of more open homosexuality among pirate crews. However, the trustworthiness of the sources on these issues is difficult to assess, a point I will return to. On the whole, these crews were not particularly egalitarian though, they engaged in high levels of violence and sexual violence against their victims. There seems to be little in the way of diversity through which to assess their level of racism. For a time, many pirates used bases in Vietnam and were sort of sponsored by the Tayson rebels. But the dynamic with Vietnamese crew members seems to largely have mirrored the contemporary status of the Vietnamese within Chinese society.
The sources on Chinese piracy are overwhelmingly written by Chinese officials, writing official reports or verdicts for an audience of higher-ranking officials. So there are some significant biases in play. It can be impossible to tell whether a characteristic of those engaging in piracy is being overemphasized merely to depict pirates as degenerate or deviant. Or when the nature of piracy/events is being falsified to protect local gentry or government garrisons who cooperated with pirates, or to obscure the incompetence or corruption of the official writing the report.
Another point, in fiction pirates are often presented as a distinct social group or subculture, marked by Parrots, earrings, eyepatches, west county accents, and other tropes. In reality a pirate is someone who has committed a particular crime (piracy) and they have no more cultural uniformity or a distinct sub-culture than say arsonists or murderers do. In general pirates were indistinguishable from other mariners. But there is a caveat to this, in that in periods where sustained piracy existed for decades there is some evidence that those who engaged in piracy developed a somewhat distinctive set of norms, practices, and slang. But this was more of a minor subculture of the broader mariner culture, not something highly unique. I should note that piracy is not typically a single crime under Chinese Imperial law, and pirates would instead be convicted of robbery, assault, rape, murder, kidnapping, or extortion offenses. Pirates were generally considered a genre of bandit by most Chinese observers.
Most pirates in China were part time coastal pirates, existing on a continuum of fishing, smuggling, wrecking, and piracy. Piracy, as a riskier venture, often happened as an economic activity of last resort, and happened seasonally when fishing or normal employment was limited. Piracy increases dramatically April to August, as summer typhoons and poor winds make for poor fishing, and food prices peak. Piracy can also be an extension of the continuum of violence around maritime communities. Brawls between sojourning sailors and permanent inhabitants of towns they visited. Violence between neighboring villages over fishing or littoral rights, involving kidnapping for ransom, occasional murders, sabotage of the other side’s fishing nets or oyster traps. According to Antony intra-village rock fights were also common, and “temple fairs often descended into bloody frays between drunken sailors and locals.”.
Something that is often forgotten is that many people took to piracy under duress. This is true of many groups which engage in violence, from 14th century routier bands in the Hundred Year’s war to child soldiers in the Congo Wars. According to contemporary records, roughly 50% of the individuals in pirate crews were captives providing forced labor, not full members of the crew. They were forced to join, often initially as servants doing tasks such as cooking, making tea, bailing, or sailing. Usually the choice was to join the crew or be killed. These servants would be promoted to lookouts or porters before being pressured to participate in the actual violence themselves.
Chinese banditry during the Ming period sometimes occurred along ethnic lines, with Mongol soldiers often being identified as the culprits. Then as now, minorities were often marked by greater precarity, and would be the first to lose their income or go hungry in periods of economic stagnation. Whether this dynamic extended to piracy isn’t something I’ve seen scholarship on, but the inference may be reasonable given the dynamics of banditry on land. Southern China has a number of ethnic and linguistic groups, such as the Hokkien and Dan people, some of which are closely associated with maritime activity. But I want to emphasize that the dynamic here is a lot more complicated than some sort of ‘minorities are predisposed to crime’ nonsense.