Let me preface this by saying that I am not a professional historian; however, I am an experienced home brewer with an enthusiasm for history. So I can at least offer that perspective with some references. I also live in Germany, for what it's worth.
To me, this last part is the key to your question. Historically, a variety of herbs, fruits, and/or spices were used to fill the role of bittering/flavoring. In modern beer, hops are almost universally used. I would argue that the use of hops is the defining factor that would make a fermented malt beverage identifiable to a modern drinker as "beer." Records of hop cultivation go back to at least the 8th century. However, it's not until around the 15th-16th century that that we see widespread and consistent adoption of hops in beer brewing in Europe (although hops were adopted a century earlier in Belgium and the Netherlands). In fact, in 15th century England, beer and ale were two distinct terms, with beer referring to a hopped beverage and ale unhopped. This distinction no longer exists; today, "ale" simply refers to any beer made with ale yeast (as opposed to lager yeast, which ferment at lower temperatures).
I think a few terms will be helpful to define before addressing your question specifically. Beer is first made by steeping crushed, malted barley grains (or some times other grains such as wheat) in hot (but not boiling) water. This process allows the conversion of the starch in the grains to simple sugars. At this point in the process, the liquid is very sweet! After this step, the grains are removed from the water/sugar mixture (called the 'wort'), then the wort is boiled (note: strictly maintaining a boil may be a relatively recent practice, but this isn't hugely relevant to answer your question). During the boil/heating, a variety of botanicals can be added to the wort. The purpose of this is to balance the sweetness of the beer with the bitterness of the plant.
Certainly, you can still find fermented malt beverages today that are flavored with herbs other than hops; these are collectively referred to as gruit, although the term itself is really the name of the herb mixed used in the brewing process. Additionally, there are many modern and traditional beers (i.e., hopped fermented malt beverages) that do not follow the Reinheitsgebot; for example, some Belgian beers use coriander seeds and sugar in the brewing process. However, you asked about Germany, which today is dominated by light-colored, lower-alcohol lagers such as Pils and Helles, beers that have been copied many times the world over. I would speculate that such a beverage first comes to mind when most people think of "beer.".
Yes, this is a great point. I addressed it in an answer to a follow-up question but probably should have included it in the main post. Although the Reinheitsgebot tends to be remembered for its decree of ingredients, the reasons for it were economic, which makes up the bulk of the text. Specifying a single grain to be used in brewing freed up supplies of grains for use in food.
Bavaria introduced this move so make bread an affordable good, as until then breweries compeeted with bakeries for goods such as wheat and rye. Some cities adopted similar laws even earlier than that, so did the the Nuremberg City Council. Because of a famine in 1303, they issued that only barley and no other grain should be used for brewing beer.
Focusing again on Germany, the famous Reinheitsgebot (the purity law) was established in Bavaria in 1516 (although there were some earlier laws that were similar). Among other things, this stipulated that beer could only be made with hops, barley, and water (and later yeast once microorganisms were discovered; restrictions on other grains such as wheat were also loosened). One of the more interesting factors influencing the use of hops was religion. In Germany, there was no tax on hops by the Catholic church, and it has also been suggested that the promotion of hops was intended to curtail the use of herbs viewed as playing a role in pagan rituals.
In any case, although one could certainly find hopped beer before the 16th century in Germany, it would have been much easier to find a clearly identifiable modern beer after this time, especially given the co-occurring transition towards more mass production of beer, which would have ensured more consistency among batches. Indeed, many of Germany's most famous breweries emerged from Bavaria during the 14-17th centuries, producing the pale lagers and wheat beers that are familiar to modern drinkers.
As /u/Daedalus0815 rightly pointed out in a follow-up below, Germany of course did not yet exist as a unified country in the 16th century. Thus, if you really want to know about the beer you'd find in Berlin per se, the developments in Bavaria at this time would not necessarily apply wholesale. Northern German and Southern German (e.g., in Bavaria) beer brewing differed at this time, and continued to do so long after. Today, German brewing practices largely center around lager beer (made with yeast that ferments at a cool temperature) and wheat beers (and increasingly "craft beer" style breweries are popping up). However, there are still popular beers today that fall outside of these categories, such as Kölsch, which is a lager-like ale from Cologne. Anyway, in 16th century Berlin, you would have found much more variety in brewing practices than you would have in Bavaria. However, much of this detail might fall outside the scope of this answer. I think it depends on whether you mean, when would it first have been relatively common to find a recognizably modern beer in Berlin, or when would virtually all beer available in Berlin have been recognizably modern? I find the widespread changes occurring in brewing in the 15th-16th century (not just in Germany, but in, e.g., England, as well) to be at least a good starting point as an answer to your question.
Also 1516 Bavaria was its own country, it was not party of Germany, the law was not applicable for the rest of what we consider Germany today. In fact, it only broadened slowly outside of Bavaria. Bavaria even insisted on its application throughout Germany as a precondition of German unification in 1871. Only then it spread throughout the rest of Germany.
Jochen Sprotte: Das Kontrollsystem des Nürnberger Rates über die mittelalterlichen Brauer und deren Biere. In: Jahrbuch der Gesellschaft für Geschichte des Brauwesens.
Not sure if I'm allowed to ask these questions here or not, but here we go: Why were hops so important that Reinheitsgebot had to be passed? Also, are there any records of recipes that exist prior to the passing of Reinheitsgebot? Has anyone tried to recreate alcoholic beverages from that time?
Follow up question, do you know what was used before hop became popular? You mention gruit which today is a mixture of sweet gale, mugwort, ground ivy, horehound and calluna heather (wikipedia). Was this mixture similar to what was used prior to hop? Were there other herbs which used to be popular?
As to the second part of your question, there actually are quite a few surviving recipes. The American brewery Dogfishhead is well known for releasing many unconventional beers, including some that try to closely follow ancient recipes (I believe "Midas Touch" is one?). As I briefly mentioned in my main post, one can still find gruit-style beers today, which are made with a variety of herbs instead of hops.
This really depends on the time period and what was locally available. Fermented malt beverages have had many additives over the centuries, including the herbs you listed, as well as other flowers, honey, sugar, fruit, etc.
Mead is a group of fermented alcoholic beverages in which the majority of the fermented sugars come from honey. Thus, mead can be simply water, yeast, and honey, or it can include fruit or spices. The alcohol content can also be variable, say from 5% to 20%, though most fall somewhere in the middle. Mead can also be dry or sweet, and sparkling (i.e., carbonated like beer) or still (like wine). Each of these variants has its own name (e.g., mead made with fruit is called a "melomel"), but each one is still considered a mead. There are also variants of mead made with malt and often hops; these are called "braggots". Additionally, beer brewers occasionally use some honey (or any sugar, really) to increase the alcohol and dryness of a beer, though these would not be considered a mead if the proportion of honey relative to malt is relatively low.
Additionally, I think it's somewhat subjective whether one would taste this and think of it as "beer" or not. That's up to the taster and the particular beer. You could argue that because smoke was such a common thing, and virtually absent today, that modern beer didn't exist until the 19th century. However, I do find this aspect more subject and hand-wavy than looking at things from a fundamental ingredients perspective.
As I wrote in a reply to another question, much of content of the Reinheitsgebot is economic in nature. It limits prices as well as ingredients. It has also been argued (although this is disputed) that the law had public health in mind. Brewing practices varied widely across Germany, and many ingredients, including some plants, had adverse health effects. Limiting bittering agents to hops, which were now widely used and cultivated, and untaxed by the Catholic church, would have been advantageous in terms of economics and public health.