She kept partying without worries on another saturday while being exposed to covid on friday meeting with Pekka Haavisto. It came to public on saturday that Haavisto had covid but she didnt care, just kept partying till late night and went to the tests on sunday.
There is also the case where she brought 5 cabs of random B-class wannabe celebrities to prime ministers workplace to drink and celebrate, putting the whole Finnish defense on jepardy. (This is the place where they meet other countries state of heads for example) Ill try to search the links for you tomorrow. Cant promise I will find english articles but for sure I can find Finnish articles where you can use google translate.
This latest "drug" partycase is just a small part of a bigger problem she has caused for Finlands security but reddit likes to view things their own way. If you are against her, people seem to jump to the conclusion that you are against women, especially the younger ones. This couldnt be more far from the truth as we would have already kicked the male PM with similar record.
Now imagine bringing 5 cabs(25 - 38) of semi random people to PM's workplace where you could place mic's everywhere or other shady shit.
They are virulently pro status quo and make a “scandal” about everything Marin does because she is a young woman.
Edit: Just so that people can understand why Finland has always kept PM's in such a high value: They are the ones who hold the most power in our country and being a neighbour to Russia, our defense has always been a 1 priority. There is alot of spies here and the previous male PM got kicked just for texting to a random stripper. Reason was that he could have possibly told state secrets to people that couldnt be trusted.
It’s my experience that people use morals to justify voting against people or policies they don’t like. Then when the people they voted for turn out to have worse morals they say it doesn’t matter.
I'm going to have to use this line next time I'm accused of having a good time. What a fucking boss.