…I’m curious about how you concluded it was a homeless person as opposed to the previous tenant holding over.
It was a homeless person who stayed there because all the bed, chairs and tables were taken out from the trash. I am not comfortable knowing that a person was able to enter the apartment which was under my name and has been using it. What if I was there when that person entered the aprtment? I think you can empathize with my concern here.
Most anyone here can understand your concern, but we don't advise people on how they should feel. The advice you've received here is good legal advice.
Read your lease and see what it says about terminating the lease, if there's an option beyond paying for the entire term you agreed to, it will be described there.
If it was previous tenant or a missed work order, I am okay with that but I guess this is a more seriuos issue and my amazon packages which got delivered was already stolen.
Unfortunately this is a very difficult or expensive lesson for you to learn and one action could have prevented this from happening--waiting until you have seen the rental in person before agreeing to obligate yourself for a year or more. Finally, no one MADE you agree to this contract. You signed willingly.
Have to allow them a chance to fix and they did. Just sounds like they did not change the locks before and old tenant or friend got a copy of the key.
I saw the apartment where the stuff taken out of trash being used. When I asked them did you file a complaint, they said they did but they cannot show it to me because of confidentiality. I really dont think anybody should be living there even for free. All the clauses in the lease documents are just mentioned they will sue me over this or that but nothing in favour of the tenant.
With tenant protection laws. Not even worth it to call the police if they can just get the squatter out. Judges are just going to dismiss the case. Landlords dont even want to call the police. Since can be a chance they could be told they cant force them to leave. And have to take months with the eviction process. Of course landlords can sue the homeless person for any damages. But know a homeless person cant pay. So waste of everyone's time.
Not really sure what you are asking for. If you buy a house or rent another place it will be the same. Most will just have new locks. Like you do now.