Generally speaking during the period of time I am interested in, the Royal Navy divided its crews into two "watches," usually named port and starboard (although this had nothing to do with what side of the ship they inhabited). There were certain men, called "idlers" who merely worked all day, such as the gunner, carpenter, boatswain, surgeon, chaplain, and other warrant officer. Any women aboard would also not stand watch. But most of the enlisted crew would have a four-hour-on, four-hour-off schedule, which would rotate because two dog-watches, or shortened two-hour watches, were added between 1600-2000 hours.
So the function of the dog-watches was to shift the men's schedules so that they wouldn't always be working from midnight to 4 a.m., and so forth. The dog-watches are called so because they are cur-tailed.
Men would get what sleep they could when they were off watch, by slinging hammocks on the gun-decks of the ship. They were each allotted 14" of space to lie in, which would be doubled by half the men not being on watch at a time, but the berthing would still be incredibly crowded by modern standards.
It was well established in the period I know about but pretty much the story of the RN in the 18th century was that things were becoming more standardized over time -- I wouldn't be confident putting a time frame on its origin.
Additionally, for many merchant vessels at the time they would have all hands on deck from noon until dark (around the end of the dog watches). The crew on watch wouldn't necessarily be at a task throughout that time, particularly during the dog watches in the evening, but they would be above instead of below. This effectively put them at spending 16 hours a day on deck with two 4 hour shifts for sleeping in the evening/night.
Sometimes, rarely, there would be three watches, which would make it possible for the crew to get up to 8 hours of sleep at a time.
Do you know when that watch system was instituted? I know it was used during the American Revolution and Napoleonic Wars, but the Golden Age of Piracy peaked a hundred years before.