Your comment has been removed as it is difficult to read. It is either far too long, incoherent, or it has been improperly formatted for use on Reddit. Please review the following rules and edit your post to be more concise and readable. This includes the proper use of Reddit markup tags, paragraphs and sentences, as well as proper spelling and coherent thoughts. Do not make a second post. Please review the following rules before participating further:
The only problem with this is shopkeeper's privilege in IL requires reasonable suspicion. For shoplifting, this means someone (the witness) must have observed you, uninterrupted, from the time you pick up the item to after you've passed the point of sale and not paid for it.
What you are missing here is shopkeeper's privilege - the store has the legal right to detain people they have reasonable grounds to believe have stolen, in order to look into the situation and verify the items were paid for. See . Your conduct was almost certainly enough for them to detain you because you went to leave from the store area rather than the checkout. Can you not see how that looks suspicious? This wasn't a battery against you - she was detaining you as she has the legal right to do.
Sue them for what? Your post is one.huge block of text and impossible to read but it sounds like they stopped you because of your behaviour, not your race.
It would be nice to see a source on what you and that attorney are saying is "required" in order to detain people. It's a store policy in many places, I realize, but I have yet to see any legitimate source that establishes that as a legal requirement.
The store explained their reasoning and it was legally sound. You escalated the situation when the store was simply exercising its legal rights, so any embarrassment that resulted from the escalation is on you.
I am not at all convinced by that random attorney's website, which (alarmingly) conflates probable cause with reasonable suspicion. They are two very different concepts, and the privilege to detain requires significantly less than what's needed to arrest.
Caselaw or statutes are the kind of sources that I consider "legitimate" for answering legal questions - not attorneys' websites that by nature have to dumb things down and are trying to solicit business. It may be a useful criminal defense strategy to try to poke holes in the prosecution's case if there isn't a witness who saw the whole thing, but that says nothing about whether OP can sue for a brief detention by a shopkeeper. Probable cause for arrest is not the standard here.
Please . If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, . Do not make a second post or comment.
For whatever reason, you linked to the same attorney again. LegalMatch is not a "law library" and it says nothing specific about Illinois.