That's not a guarantee at all. India gutted the Rafale order due to costs for example. Was supposed to buy 126, with most made in India. Costs skyrocketed out of control, and the order was cut to just 36 aircraft.
India didn't want the same fighter Pakistan has, even if India's would be drastically more evolved and superior. As is, the TLMAL plant in India just produces the wings for most new construction F-16s now.
According to a single blogger, who couldn't even get the most basic facts of either aircraft correct (like saying the F/A-18Es wings can't fold to save space, same as a Rafale, when uh... ). Forgive me if hold out for someone with any shred of actual credibility to announce it on their own, not just linking back to said blogger.
I don't think India has ever shown unreliable in its cooperations with France in the past. They're reputed to take some time to decide things, but to stick to what's agreed after contracts are signed.
Decision-making is slow in India for administrative reasons, but I think they're perceived in France as a reliable partner who stand by the contracts they sign .
There's huge issues for the Rafale M aboard India's carriers, given they quite literally can not fit on the elevators. The rumor is that Dassault is going to design them so the edges of the wings can be removed and reattached, but there's no evidence that has been done, nor has any air worthiness testing of such been done. Only way they fit otherwise, is putting one side on blocks to it's at an angle, which is... Insanely moronic to put it gently.
This has been in the works for a while. India is going to equip these planes with the new advanced radar that they designed and built so they will have fully modern instrumentation as well. These will be many times more capable than the F-16s Pakistan got that caused so much of a fuss.
Also something that blogger simply chose to omit, is that India's indigenous twin engine deck based fighter (TEDBF) carrier aircraft is using F414 engines, the exact same ones found on F/A-18Es. Commonality shipboard heavily outweighs commonality between the Navy and the Air Force. Means only 1 kind of engine has to be trained for, and only 1 kind of engine has to be stored on ship as a spare part. There's only so much space on the ship for spare parts. Having commonality with the Air Force does fuck all to address that if the carrier's own air wing has 2 different engines being used.
We don’t live in a vacuum and these types of deals don’t just get the “pinky promise” rubber stamp of aproval.