No. An advertisement is an invitation to treat, not an offer to contract. This is even more particularly true in the case of an advertisement for an apartment where everybody understands that even the advertised price is conditional on the results of a credit check.
I physically went to go see an apartment and was quoted a ballpark price because “systems were down”. I was told that if I was interested in applying for this specific unit to go online and enter the unit number and the correct pricing should appear. I went home and paid for my credit check and authorized $200 to be debited from my account pending approval of my application. Application was approved and I was debited $200 only to be called hours later and be told that the price on the unit was actually higher.
You almost certainly can't force them to rent to you at the lower price, but you can complain to the local DA's office, because they may have committed a misdemeanor, and at the very least they should refund your fee. If they refuse, .
Hot damn, this may actually be illegal under . They definitely made an offer to you to induce you to enter into an obligation which they should have reasonably known was untrue or misleading. You paid them $200 because you were quoted a particular price for an apartment, and they at the very least should have known that the website price was incorrect.
I am not a licensed CA attorney and I don't know if that's something you could pursue in small claims, but I would think so. If nothing else, having the appropriate sections of the BPC at hand may help you convince whomever you're dealing with that you're serious.
I'm still not quite understanding what happened here. You saw an apartment in person. It was apartment number x. You were told to complete an application online? You filled out the application, in part by entering the apartment number x, and on the application it said both the lower price and that, conditional on a credit check, that was the price you agreed to pay for the unit? And now, after having determined that your credit is adequate, the leasing company is telling you that the price you were given when you applied is not the correct price, and they will only lease you that apartment at a higher price?