I am not an attorney, but I deal with difficult situations in my job a lot. It is difficult when a parent realises they do not have the ability to keep one of their children safe from another, but I want to first provide you with some assurance, you are doing what is best for his younger sister. The siblings of children with severe behavioral needs can suffer greatly and begin experiencing issues themselves if not supported.
As for what to do with your son, it sounds like you have made many attempts to provide him with tools for success, and be is continuing to not only disobey his parents, but break the law. The first thing I recommend is look up the incorrigibility laws in NC. If you cannot control him, there are ways through the courts to seek remedy and protect yourselves from his actions. While you are working through this process, and it is a process, make sure to document/notify law enforcement every time he breaks a law. What is he doing at school? Is he exhibiting the same behaviors? With the diagnosis he has, I would assume he has an IEP and BIP. What do the teachers at the school do to address behaviors and is there a possibility of transfer from school to home? Has he had legal issues at school? Attendance issues? All of this will help build a case with the courts as well.
We are concerned about being liable for his actions (we've had plenty enough complaints from other parents over the years).
He has missed a LOT of school, and we've had more unexcused absences that I care to count, resulting in a letter home saying that the sheriff/police may get involved. I immediately wrote to the school who said don't worry about it!
I've kept the school counsellor updated, and have had a few resources back, but there's not much else they can do. I've asked if he can go to school physically full time, but that's not possible either as he's not disabled enough.
He has a 504 but not an IEP. I've not heard of a BIP. Teachers typically after several weeks will call or email to say he's not doing work, but I tell them there's nothing we can do. We even offered him money for grades, and he turned it down.
We will move ahead with reporting the credit card theft. The hesitation was that we have had our hands full with trying to find support for the sexual assault side of things. We're also concerned about the retaliation he might give while he is still living with us.
I do document what happens, although I'm not sure how to notify law enforcement every time. Do I call for threats of vandalism by a minor? I don't know. I'm also wary of calling them and them not being able to do anything, since he'll see that as them not supporting me, and it will embolden him further. When I called about him molesting his sister, the police said they can't speak to him directly.
Contact the police and ask to file charges on behalf of your daughter for sexual assault. Go back through your records, texts, school emails, previous reports and put it into a comprehensive time-line. Hire a family law attorney and find out what what your next steps should be. You appear to have done all you can without your son improving. Now you'll have to take steps to protect your daughter, family and community. This is not your fault. Your son has to be stopped before this escalates and someone else is hurt.
For them to file charges they need to gather evidence, and my daughter was unwilling to open up when we had the forensic interview. On top of that, even if she did I'm told it's still a he-said-she-said situation. I have kept a diary of his behavior since he was young. I don't know how to push things further with the police, but you're right that a family law attorney may be able to help.
I did let the police know, but the concern about reporting the credit card theft is that it's more stress and time on top of everything else, if there's court appearances, etc. And I don't know that it's really going to be impactful, other than to harm the already frayed relationship with him?