Because if there is one, I would well imagine there are clauses in it that he has to inform you of address changes and travels, especially outside the state.
She may have no "right to the information of where the father lives" but the father with no court ordered custody rights has no right to see the kid or take the kid anywhere unless she agrees.
If he says "Well, we have a deal that I can take the kid" she can say "Not anymore we don't. You're not taking the kid again until you tell me where you're taking it or until you get a court order saying you can take the kid.".
That street goes both ways. He has no legal obligation to return the child at their agreed upon time. As the child's legal father and no court appointed custody in place, the father technically has full custody just as the mom does. He could take that kid out of state and the cops can do is shrug their shoulders. So she needs to be delicate on how he addresses her ex and to make sure she gets a court appointed custody agreement.
Telling a client like her "you have no right to know where the father is taking the kids" without also telling her "but you don't have to let him take the kid at all without a court order" is just bad lawyering.
There's no court ordered custody agreement. Her best approach is to tell him "you don't get to take the kid until I know where it's going." The father will likely realize he has no leverage at all and agree.
If he wants to go to court to try to enforce his right to take the child to parts unknown, fine. No judge will be "pissed off" at a mother who wants to know where her kid is and who allows a father part time custody based on the eminently reasonable condition that he tells her where he's taking the child.
As it stands, she doesn't even know if she's taking the kid out of state. Both Arizona, California, and Utah are an hour away from Las Vegas.
Should mom have dad's address? Sure. But he shouldn't withhold his children and make them lose their father because she is mad. She should go to court and make that a condition of the order.
So you are saying that the father has no right to take his children at any time (with our without a court order) without mom having all the details? Can't go take them to pizza without her approval? Can't go to grandma's without mom knowing first? No. That's not how parenting time works.
Not it's not. She's coming to this forum for help. She wants to know her options and what she can do.
And yes, a judge will have a problem that mom decided to withhold the children for no reason instead of going to court... Like dad would have to do if mom withholds the children. Judges do not like it when you make the children the pawn and use them to get what you want. That's insane and horrible parenting.
Don't tell people out is ok to use children to get what they want. That isn't what children are for...
Kids are living in her house. Dad comes to say "I want the kids and will no longer tell you where I'm taking them." She says "No" and closes the door.
Father is being the asshat here refusing to tell the mom where he's taking the kids. She shouldn't put up with that for one second, and doesn't have to.
It isn't like it is a stranger. It is the child's father that the mom has had no problems with him having the children. She should go to court if she wants that stipulation, not debt the father access to his children until she gets what she wants. It is inappropriate... Not illegal but not what is best for the children.
If the father says "Judge, I wanted to take the kid somewhere without telling her, and she wouldn't agree, so I'm coming to you asking for a court order that I can take the kid where I want without telling her," the judge isn't going to to sympathetic to the father at all.