Never, ever take legal advice from an adverse party. In a divorce or a separation, your spouse is an adverse party, because their interests conflict with yours. Your husband is entitled to his perspective, but it does not help you to take him at his word.
Divorce is, at its heart, an equitable process intended to sever the marriage and divide up the remaining assets. Depending on factors like who has been working or not, and for how long, and what children and assets you have together, support payments may also be appropriate, or they may not be.
Washinon does follow community property rules, meaning that each of your property that is not separate from the marriage is equally both of yours. Property purchased after a separation can, sometimes, be separate property. However, you should talk to a lawyer as soon as you can about your separation and make sure that those assets will be protected as far as they can be, and that you know what to expect. That cuts both ways, however: your husband, also, is in possession of a number of community assets and their value will need to be split with you, too.
Start shopping around for a divorce lawyer now. Don't wait until you have money. Often, you can use joint assets to pay for a lawyer, and some lawyers will delay payment until there's a separation plan in place.
Your husband cannot evict you from your marital home together. If you're not safe there, it might be a good idea to leave regardless, but on your terms, not his.
You can always, always leave, and you can always, always take things with you. The division of your property is a civil dispute between the two of you, and not a criminal one, and it will be months before any final decisions are made about how those assets will be divided. Until then, they're both of yours, and each of you can do as you please, within reason.
Thank you so much for the clarification about civil vs criminal. I was really worried that I could face jail time for taking something.
Are things like books or a desk considered marital property if they were purchased for me with my money or by him?
My understanding of "assets" is that it pertains to things of value like cars, homes, stocks and bonds.
I'm planning on taking them as I can afford to care for them with both my time and money. I am relieved to hear that contesting that would be a civil matter.
They are baby brothers and I don't feel like that's in their best interest. He's also gone for long periods of time and I worry about his ability to care for one. The adoption papers are in my name if that makes a difference.
There is also the issue of 2 kittens we adopted so I would have some company when he leaves for work for days or weeks at a time. He is really fond of one but has no interest in the other. I'm worried that the kittens are going to be a... I'm afraid he will want to split them up.
Even though I want to leave as soon as possible and don't wanna stick around to find out... He said he owned this house when he actually rents it. His landlord was never notified. My husband may not be able to evict me but his landlord will. That's neither here nor there though as I'm playing real nice until I can leave. Which will be very soon.
In short: breathe. You're going to be okay, and you have room to plan and maneuver right now. Make the best of it - your plan to get consults is a good one. If you need help urgently, reach out to a women's shelter, as they often have connections to legal services.
If your husband rents, then you're pretty safe from eviction. The landlord can evict both of you, but not just you, and for the landlord to evict your husband for having his spouse move in would be challenging and unusual. Evictions also take time, and money, and many landlords have no interest in spending those resources on someone else's divorce.
Furniture bought during your marriage (and sometimes furniture brought into the marriage and used together) would generally be a marital asset, but it's also pretty irrelevant, as the value is what it'd cost to replace it with a similar used item, not what it cost new. A whole household's worth has some value, but a sofa or a mattress isn't really worth arguing over, in either direction, in most cases.
The same is broadly true for pets - most pets aren't really worth much, unless they're pedigreed or show animals of some kind. If you take them with you, odds are the most that'll come of it is a small offset in the eventual settlement, or that it'll be a non-issue entirely. It _is_ possible he could seek to have them returned, but it's not terribly likely.
I left my marriage with a couple hundred dollars, my beater car, my clothes, my cats and the dog. It's not easy but you can push through and rebuild on your terms. Talk to an attorney, rally your support team, and make a safe exit plan. Good luck You got this.
He only has the power you give him, at this point. (Also remember this goes both ways, you both have equal "power" but this really isn't about that.).
Never take advice from your opponent. Or from someone with a problem telling the truth. You probably have enough money for a free consultation with a divorce attorney. Get one of those first.
I will start shopping around for a consultation immediately. I was under the impression that I would need to pay for advice. So thank you again for the clarification.
Thank you for the advice. I'll disregard everything he has said and go get a consult. Was asking here first so I wouldn't have to explain where I'm going. But maybe I can make calls at work or leave work early.
Ya once I leave there will be no contact between us. I'll have a new phone . New and unknown residence. He's not allowed to be at my place of work unless he has proper identification and license.
So lol the next time we communicate it'll be through a lawyer. Thank goodness for advocates who specialize in stuff like this. There's so many potential pitfalls it's mind boggling.
I've met some pretty crappy people/addicts in my life but this one takes the cake. I've never known someone to lie about things this ridiculous. My ears are bent shut haha.