The variance of acronyms is so interesting. You referenced the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan and I found:
The article mentioned that the Taliban took credit for it. So basically we have a religion killing people in the same religion for being the wrong flavor of the religion.
That’s because the British fucked the entire region badly. The pashtuns never wanted to be part of Pakistan like kashmiri muslims didn’t want to be part of India. I do agree though they should have come to resolution by giving some semi autonomous status or something.
In 1948, Afghanistan's government provided weapons and ammo to to declare independence from Pakistan and form.
Throughout the 1940s-2000s, every single Afghan government laid claim to Pakistan's eastern half as Afghan territory.
There's 1.9 billion Muslims globally. The overwhelming majority of people killing in the name of Islam come from 3-4 organizations that claim to have a monopoly on Muslim beliefs.
Come to America, we have Capitalist Fundamentalists who would rather go bankrupt rather than have "Socialized Medicine".
AlQaeda: Founded as an organization to oppose the Soviet-Union, most of its founders had been funded by the United States using Pakistan/Saudi Arabia as intermediaries until they turned against America after the Soviet collapse.
Islamic State / Daesh: rose to prominence due to a power vacuum in Iraq caused by the U.S. invasion of Iraq.
Taliban: Founded as a militia in 1994 after the Soviet withdrawal had left Afghanistan in the hands of warlords. The Pakistani Taliban was an offshoot of this that rose to prominence during the initial years of the American invasion of Afghanistan, when America asked the Pakistani military to make incursions into Waziristan and capture militants who were fleeing across the Afghan border.
Islam isn't a pacifist religion by any means, but there are plenty of Muslims in Europe, North Africa, Turkey, Arabia, South-east Asia that aren't killing in the name of religion. Even within countries like Afghanistan and Pakistan, these terrorists are a tiny minority. The past 30 years of Islamic Terrorism picking up is a direct consequence of Soviet and American interference and the overwhelming majority of Islamic Terrorists are funded, indoctrinated and trained by organizations that grew to prominence because of U.S. or Soviet intervention in their region.