You might seek a consult with an attorney. In the broadest terms bits of drill bit left behind aren't necessarily "massive fuck ups." In fact they're often a pretty ordinary risk of many dental procedures.
I agree he should get a consult -- the dentist has to miss a lot of procedures/safeguards to get to this. You must at a minimum count your equipment.
Bits of drill bit left behind are famously an ordinary risk of root canals. While IANAD (it's not as fun because there's no anal), wisdom tooth procedures have similar aggressive work with implements.
I haven't heard of this being a known risk of dental procedures. Generally surgical equipment left behind is considered the most straightforward of malpractice to prove.
Beyond whether there's malpractice or ordinary risk here, there's also the question of what might be recovered. If OP is about to spend $10k on a surgical procedure this is an important question. If this is a couple hundred in some kind of removal procedure, litigation may not be financially viable.
On your second point, I'd just note that when it's a more obvious type of liability, there can also be greater ratio of recovery:bills due to the defendant's concern about reputation. If it's a full drill bit I think a medmal attorney would be interested regardless of the dental bills. And OP still needs a surgery... dang.
Edit to clarify: The whole bit left in the mouth would be a big deal. More commonly pieces of the bit are lost. And obviously harder to account for.
Not exactly. Or at least this is far different than the sponge left behind in the surgical patient.
Broken bits happen every day. An altogether lost bit, aside from being logistically hard to understand, is a horse of a different color.
Your second point could, I guess, be right if this dentist lost a whole bit in someone's mouth. But not if he lost a bit of a broken bit. You and I are really imagining much different events.
In the dental world, OP just had a surgery (cutting into his gums and trying to find the foreign object). They next one could be more involved, but since it is in the same physical office, it is likely more of the same, just with an oral surgeon instead of a standard dentist.
Edit: I misread the post - he did say "neurosurgeon." I have never heard of direct coordination between a neurosurgeon and a standard dentist and certainly not at a dentist's office (and this is an area I'm familiar with), so I feel like op may have misheard.
Medical malpractice is \very\ fact specific, so to get a real answer you're going to want to talk to a real lawyer.
That said, when you had your wisdom teeth out, they should have given you some paperwork that noted possible side effects and you would have had to sign it before they did the procedure. As far as I know, this isn't mandatory, but it's so common as to be a red flag if someplace doesn't do this. They have to have your informed consent to do surgery, and this form is how doctors cover their ass in case you come back later and claim you didn't consent.
That form would have covered side effects in general terms, so it wouldn't have said "you might end up with a bit of drill bit left in your mouth", but it would have covered the possibility of follow-up procedures and that is for things exactly like this.
In fact, you may have signed a similar form for this visit, but perhaps the dentist didn't bother since it was expected to be such a minor procedure.