We can expect France and Israel to become a bigger part of Indian defence. As far as smooth and quick manufacturing is concerned Indian government is looking to boost its local defense industry with Joint Ventures annd Technology transfers.
It is unfortunate that India has not gone more towards American defense industry considering it's the largest not to mention the most advanced. But working with the Americans Military industrial complex comes with a lot of conditions and limitations which India might find unacceptable.
India needs to develop an indigenous defence manufacturing sector and fast. Considering the next decade, it will have close regional tensions with China flexing it's military in the region.
They have been trying to replicate it with France right now both with Rafael Fighter Jets and Submarines. India has along way to go but also has a young and relatively well educated population. If the put the right policy and right support it can create a strong indigenous defence industry within the next decade.
Not really, What we will see is a second stage of Indian weapons modification. India began its indigenous weapons programs in the 60's with heavy Soviet Influence, From what we have seen India is probably the second largest user of Soviet and Soviet derived weapons. It can be seen even in the Indian weapons industry the Tejas, Arjun and Arihant.
What will happen this next few years is that India will replace Soviet and Russian Tech with Indian Tech while it buys More high end stuff from France, Isreal and little bit from the US. The Indian Army will be staffed with T-90's, Arjuns, Perhaps a more advanced Arjun, Leclercs and Isreali Tank models similar things will happen to the Airforce where Indian planes will be the workhorse of the skies while French and American planes will be a minor but elite squadron. Indian navy is quite self reliant to be real.
Girl, we can make whatever the fuck they need they simply will not get the schematics. Hey we can even make certain parts customizable if they really really really want, if they are really really really willing to invest in a safe overseas arms contract with good old USA.
Eventually Indian aerospace industry will gain insights from Western aerospace industries, And likely by the 2050's it will have a industry compareable China or America. It will build cheap and lower quality drones for African and SA countries while Keeping more High end drones for itself. India will likely be self sufficient by this time period, Being a weapons export Titan. It's main rivals would be SK, Turkey, China and America. America will likely hold the edge on Tech but it will be pretty close in the competition.
I think that India could catch up to China in 2050, especially if the world continues to block China from certain high-tech manufacturing sectors, but there is no chance that India would catch up to the USA. The defence industry in the USA is simply too big, and too well funded: the USA spends around a quarter of India's GDP on defence per year.
India could overtake Russia quite easily, and could become a major arms exporter if the government made it a priority. I agree that we'll likely see a new Arjun project soon, and I think that there will be a domestic T-90 upgrade programme in the near-ish future. I think that India's next major MBT will be a joint venture between India and either France or South Korea, but this would likely depend on India agreeing to closer cooperation with the US and/or NATO.