I haven't read them myself, but I would imagine so. It is a corporate based franchise so I'm sure they keep it tight in that format. But I was wondering if there has been any new laws added since the pandemic to protect against that kind of thing. I don't want to use the massages right now, but I also don't want to lose all of my money. And I feel like considering the global condition that ultimatum shouldn't be allowed. I shouldn't have a timeframe when that time frame can essentially put me and others at risk for the profit of a company.
I haven't heard of any new laws that would come in to play with anything close to this. the pandemic hasn't even been going on for 2 years, so you not using at least half of those massages are your own fault. the company isn't taking advantage of you or this pandemic. it really sucks, but you can either take that loss or get a massage every day for the next 6 months. the company is only legally obligated to fulfill the terms that you agreed to when you bought the subscription.
Negotiate with them to see if you can get some extra massages, but you don't have a case for a refund.
You weren't taken advantage of. You just didn't pay attention to what you were signing up for. It's not their fault you didn't utilize the service you subscribed to.
I do not want a refund. I want to use what I have but not during a pandemic while still getting charged. I have 60 days after I cancel to use what I have accrued. I want to know if that should be allowed considering the pandemic as if I go into a room with a person for an hour that can easily cause a spread. I want to use what I have after vaccination has taken place without getting charged until then or losing all I have paid for.
You willing signed up for a service and didn't read the terms, or check your account for over 2 years. You're not being taken advantage of.
The pandemic isn't in play, and you're taking advantage of it to try and get something back from your screw up. If their terms say you have 60 days to use unused credit, then that's your option.
They told you have 60 days to do so. Or if you want to wait, pay $10 a month until may or so when everyone is vaccinated.
That was pre pandemic chief, these are different circumstances. I am saying those terms are unrealistic since a drastic change in our environment. I'm not trying to get anything back, I just want the option to use what I already have paid for without getting charged for it and without putting myself or others in harm. Read what I say first before throwing your bullshit in the wind.
Again you're using the pandemic, not them unless for some reason they changed the terms specifically because of them. These are terms you signed up for and agreed.