Even if he's threatening to remove the door? We are the renters of the house, this is our home we have still paid rent up to November so at the end of the day we are allowed to deny access if we can right? He also made copies of the spare key so he can come in and out whenever he wants to but we have since took that key back because of his unprofessionalism and threats.
Btw i should mention that the handyman and the landlord know each other personally and are in constant contact with each other but the landlord refuses to acknowledge our request to have him not into the house. It just feels like we're being bullied and threatened and we're not allowed to do anything about it.
What happens if nobody is at home? Are handymen allowed to break down doors to be able to enter homes because of a simple paint job? What happens if somebody comes back and sees somebody in their house and takes physical action against them? It seems like just notice doesn't force us to allow entry to someone who has been repeatedly hostile.
You do not have an exclusive right to possession of your property as a renter. Reasonable maintenance by the owner is not only allowed, but encouraged. Now it is true that they aren’t allowed to barge in with no notice at any hour of the day or night. But they are allowed entry with notice. And you have been given notice.
How the notice is given will be determined by the lease. As far as who gives it that can be the landlord or their designated representative - for example the maintenance man. Let me be clear here: you will never prevail in an argument about notice in front of a judge when you’re being pedantic about whether or not it was oral or in writing on this sort of issue. It might matter for $1 billion business deal, but it’s not gonna matter for an issue about apartment maintenance. The only thing a judge is going to care about is whether you had enough notice irrelevant of how you received the notice.
Regarding the fire extinguishers and smoke detectors you’ve already been given good advice on that point.
I’m not even clear on how you expect them to fix the problems in the apartment if you won’t let them in. Psychically perhaps?