Couldn't this completely backfire and end up with them being required to pay to be hooked up to a public utility?
Its in the original real estate contract that if a public utility is available, we need to hook into it, but we are down a long deadend road, and the water main is on the other side of the park on the main road. So there is no utility for us to hook into without going through private property.
I agree, unfortunately they are not being very reasonable with my offers (which is just current market rate, nothing crazy). So its back to the status quo of just ignoring them, like has been the case with previous home owners for decades.
I have the same fear about them being difficult when it comes time to sell, however, 3 of the homes have been sold/purchased within the last year (myself being one of them), without paying them and without any real hangups.
Thanks, and that was my thought as well, I was just seeing if anyone had any other thoughts before I potentially unleash fire and brimstone on the park.
It would be worth at least getting a consult with a real estate attorney first. I just saw your other comment about the contract requiring you to hook into a public utility if available, and the location of the utility connection (being on private property is what utility easements are for), there's a lot more at play here. As you said, it may be fire and brimstone, but that's been known to have collateral damage at times.
Gotcha. I'm not a lawyer, so I can't say what would happen if you contacted the authorities. I know that in my state the public authorities won't do anything about a private contract. So this is at a weird intersection of private contract and the utility thing. I think it would be in your best interest to work with the RV park to come to a new agreement. I know it'll be hella expensive, but when it comes time to resell your property something like that could be the difference between being able to sell and being stuck.
For sure, i could write a novel on the situation, but was trying keep it light and figured I could clarify things in the comments. I will update the post with that info though. Thanks!