When Japan plunged into civil war, naturally legal authority became less important and personal authority took the front. You might notice that I have not once yet used the term Daimyō. That's because the term is basically a catch-all for powerful warlords of the provinces. The term originally just meant someone in charge of a large plot of land, with no legal definition of what was "large". Daimyō could be shugo, they could be shugodai, they could even be priest/monks or low-ranking branches of warriors. Perhaps the best demonstration of this is Oda Nobuhide and his son Nobunaga (at first). In the legal political hierarchy of Owari province, Oda Nobuhide was only a bureaucrat of the shugodai for the southern half of the province. But while legally Nobuhide was not even shugodai, his personal authority was such that he ran the entire province. Another facit of this personal power was that Daimyō often officially "retired" and passing the leadership of the clan to his son. Yet the real power often remained with the now-retired lord. This was done to ensure smooth succession, by the father passing the legal power to his son and allowing the son to build up his own personal power while the father used his own personal power to keep the clan in check in the mean time. However, it was not unusual for this to backfire resulting in father and son coming to blows.
There's a bit of difference between (for lack of a better term) legal authority and personal authority. When society is stable and the law is strong, the two are often the same thing. But when society is in turmoil, while the two are still related, the gap between the two are often large.
You might be interested in reading about the power of the that I wrote before (slightly outdated) and the by /u/Morricane.
What this tells us is that the relationship between the different people can not simply be summarized as "puppet" or "figurehead". To borrow a phrase from Game of Thrones, power resides where men believe it resides. And while legal power, at least of the Court and the old Muromachi hierarchy, was weak, it was still respected.
In the 15th and most of the 16th century, Japan was ruled by the Muromachi Bakufu, based in Kyōto. In terms of rank at the imperial court, the Emperor was the top. The Kanpaku, often translated as imperial regent, but the documentary translated as prime minister, as the (usual) head of the aristocratic government, or court, is second. By this time, however, the aristocratic government are really only in charge of formal and/or religious rituals and officially issuing court ranks and titles. The Bakufu, the warrior government oversees Japan outside of Kyōto by appointing shugo to the provinces. These were the formal ruler of the provinces, collecting taxes, overseeing lawsuits, and mobilizing warriors for police duty and, if needed, war. Instead of the government collecting taxes from all over the country to fund its operations and pay civil servants, the Bakufu's incomes were only from the lands directly controlled by the Ashikaga family, so other warriors were under obligation to answer the calls of the government in exchange for the right to collect taxes and be in charge of plots of the provinces. Therefore, the shugo for the most part were required to stay in Kyōto or Kamakura, both to help run the government and to ensure they don't rebel. This means the person to actually oversee the province was his deputy, the shugodai, who actually assigned the warriors to carry out the tasks.
The court ranks and titles for warrior lords (leaders in the Bakufu as well as shugo of the province), including the title of Seii Taishōgun, the head of the Bakufu, are formally assigned by the court. The ranks and titles, seen as formal assignment by the Emperor and Court give much wanted and needed prestige and formal authority to the warriors. During the heyday of the Muromachi Bakufu (first half of the 15th century), however, the court basically assigns anything the Bakufu recommends. Likewise, the court basically decide among themselves who from a handful of branches of the Fujiwara families get to be Kanpaku, and the Emperor approves it. While this might seem like the Emperor, the Kanpaku, and the court were just figureheads, and in many ways they were, it is important to keep in mind that their words carried a lot of formal authority. It is also important to remember that the Bakufu also for the most part left the shugo to run the provinces, and, as mentioned, the shugo left that to the shugodai. Succession to the titles and post of the Bakufu, shugo and shugodai were also for the most part hereditary.
So by legal authority, the Emperor was the head of state and has the final say in everything. Under him, the Kanpaku leads the Court. The Emperor and court appoints the shōgun, who leads the Bakufu. The Bakufu appoints shugo, who formally rules the provinces, help run the Bakufu, and assign shugodai to actually run the affairs of the provinces. However, even at this stage during height of the Muromachi Bakufu, personal authority was incredibly important. While legally a shugo might be able to assign anyone they like to be shugodai, in practice, as the shugodai ran the province and the position was de-facto hereditary, the shugodai were able to build up personal ties through marriages or alliances, appointment and assignments of people and resources of the province, and in general just actually being there, meaning the shugodai had significant personal authority that the shugo ignores at his own peril. This was the same with the shugo and the shōgun, and even more so for the shōgun and the Court.
The Kanpaku, was legally second. The Emperor's orders also went through the Kanpaku, and the Kanpaku assigned and sent out the Court's diplomats. The Kanpaku position also allowed much more mobility and with that the ability to apply pressure in person, an advantage over the Emperor that we can't overlook. In the Sengoku period, tax income for the imperial family fell to less than one tenth of what it was at the height of the Muromachi. In comparison the Konoe family, the most powerful of the Kanpaku families, through being to send people to its lands, was able to keep about one third. Konoe Sakihisa, who was Kanpaku just before Nobunaga's rise, even travelled in person to meet Nagao Kagetora and secure his promise to bring his army to Kyōto (again) to restore the peace, though it never came to be due to ongoing wars with his neighbours.
When the court demanded Nobuhide to make peace with the Imagawa and cough up money to repair the imperial palace, Nobuhide in fact complied and agreed to a peace (which, like all peace in the Sengoku, was temporary) and coughed up a lot of money that he could've put towards his loosing war effort. Nobuhide was far from the only person in this regard. When the Bakufu demanded that Takeda Harunobu (Takeda Kenshin) and Nagao Kagetora (Uesugi Kenshin) make peace, they complied. Nagao Kagetora went as far as bring his army to Kyōto in answering the shōgun's call for support against his enemies. In return, Nobuhide, Harunobu, and Kagetora received official recognition, titles, ranks, and praise from the Bakufu and Court. Nobunaga was the same. While he had the most personal power, his conquest of Kyōto was done in support of a claimant to the position of shōgun, and for a few years many of Nobunaga's orders were formally the Bakufu's orders. Once Nobunaga fell out with the shōgun, he was quick to curry favor with the court. In return, he received imperial edict formally sanctioning his wars against his enemies. During this period, first the shōgun and then the Court and Emperor also helped Nobunaga a lot with negotiating peace when Nobunaga needed peace with this or that foe.
The Daimyō had legally the least authority. However, as he personally commanded armies, issued laws for his realm, and had significant income from lands under his control (including those that should've belonged to the aristocrats), he had the most personal authority. Even so, besides the above examples showing the importance of legal authority to the Daimyōs, they also tried to secure legal authority through the formal assignment/recognition of ranks/titles whenever possible. For example, Matsudaira Motoyasu of Minamoto descent went through the trouble of changing his name to Tokugawa Ieyasu of Fujiwara descent (with the help of Konoe Sakihisa) in order to secure the formal title of Mikawa-no-kami, or lord of Mikawa.
The person who was named Kanpaku in the documentary was Toyotomi Hideyoshi. He was a lowly foot soldier who rose through the ranks of Oda Nobunaga's army. In 1585 he was without a doubt the person with the greatest personal authority, and the position of Kanpaku just happened to be vacant, so he seized the opportunity to get himself appointed Kanpaku by the court (by threatening to wipe out the Fujiwara families if they won't appoint him). In 1586, he also got himself appointed Daijō-daijin, or "Chancellor". For a few years, the Kanpaku was the most powerful person in Japan. But this was because Hideyoshi had the personal authority to back the legal authority. Hideyoshi passed the position of Kanpaku to his nephew in 1592, but retained so much personal authority that he ordered his nephew.
I've not actually watched Age of Samurai: Battle for Japan, so I am going to respond to this as I know nothing how it portrays the events of the Sengoku Jidai. However, this is indeed a broad set of topics that are linked together.
Depends on which details. Some were recorded at the time. Others were recorded a few decades later in chronicles. Others were anecdotal stories or even historical fiction created in the high or late Edo period. Still others were just BS written by post-war fiction authors.
If you have a specific detail in mind you want to check, message me or start a new thread about the subject.