The category of non-felony crimes or conditions that would disqualify you are DV protective orders and certain domestic violence related misdemeanors. You've probably heard this referred to as the "" provisions of Federal firearms law.
If your conviction prevented you from possessing a firearm, you would have been given that order by the court specifically.
But since it sounds like it was a possession crime, not a DV assault, that conviction won't affect your firearms background check or disqualify you from buying or possessing a firearm.
They were going to sentence me for a year in jail but I got a plea deal exc. the reason I’m asking this is because my public defender said something about me not being able to buy a gun but that was before the plea. They dropped assault or something.
It's possible that you were originally charged with a felony like aggravated assault. It is a common plea bargain to drop the assault, keep the weapons charge, and sentence to probation.
In general, Colorado misdemeanors have a maximum sentence of 18 months. Possession of an "illegal" weapon (brass knuckles are in that category) is a Class 1 misdemeanor. I use quotes because there are legal distinctions in Colorado between "illegal" weapons and more serious "dangerous" weapons like silenced or sawed-off firearms. Prosecutors often pressure defendants with a threat to seek a long sentence.
It is normal for a defense attorney to advise you of the collateral consequences of the charges you face, so you can make a plea bargain decision.
I don't recommend "try to buy a gun and see if you get rejected" as a way to learn about your criminal history and your gun rights. In general you just get rejected, rather than prosecuted for lying on ATF Form 4473. But it's still best to consult with a criminal defense attorney who can look at your court records and knows the Colorado gun laws in detail. There are attorneys who specialize in firearms right restoration, but any criminal defense attorney can help you order court records and understand what they say.
You can get a head start on that process relatively inexpensively by ordering records about yourself, but Colorado doesn't have completely free and open records like some states.
You can get your arrest record from the CBI, and some "real time court records" from a vendor that serves the Colorado courts. To get actual filings and documents, you would generally need to visit a courthouse.
Paying $5 per search to the CBI and $7 per search to the court records outfit isn't free, but it's a great head start and a lot cheaper than paying your attorney to do it for you.