Ok, there isn’t a lot of good advice here, so let me try and write some good advice. Obligatory NAL.
You’re innocent until proven guilty. The system isn’t perfect but you must take advantage of the rights you have.
As far as I know there are no lawyers right now. I have only been contacted by the family. I want to contact a lawyer but I'm scared of involving lawyers/the courts when it could be resolved in the family. On the other hand, I know that speaking to the accuser is probably an awful idea. But if I ignore this until he turns 18, then what? I'm just so worried. I genuinely do not recall ever molesting him or forcing him to touch me. I don't even like to be touched on the arm, let alone in a more vulnerable spot.
Please don't take this as me ignoring your advice as I actually really appreciate it, but I'm a wreck right now.
But I think I just suffered a panic attack. I don't know how I could live another week like this. I can't sleep and my stomach turns when I eat.
It sounds like you need a lawyer and perhaps a therapist. Although it feels like your life is going to end, the information that you have suggests this is a slow process, so take your time and don't rush into any big decisions.
How likely do you think it is that an extradition could happen in this case? I have college and several other obligations. My god my life is over before it has even begun, isn't it? Worst news of my life.
1. Cut all contact. Only answer official legal documents or communications that are passed through their lawyer or your lawyer(we’re getting there).
They made me all kinds of promises about how I could get probation and then have my record expunged. Worst mistake of my life. But because I was scared and didn’t have a paid lawyer I thought I was “fixing it”.
It has ruined my life - fear - ruined my life. I know this is stressful. I was facing attempted murder after a suicide attempt. I won’t go into details but it would have been easily beaten if I had simply kept my head and talked to a lawyer.
Keep your head and see this through. I plead guilty to a crime I did not commit simply because I was scared and wanted to remove my head from the guillotine. It’s haunted me forever.
So for your sake. See this through the right way. You don’t need to call a bunch of people and plead your case to them. You don’t need to convince anyone of anything. That is your lawyers job. So get one ASAP and stay strong.
2. Depending on the province there is a very long to indefinite statute of limitations for sexual crimes in Canada. Because of this and wording of your comments the crime was allegedly committed in Canada. You should at the very least consult with a criminal Defense attorney in the appropriate province. If you believe there is the potential that you will be approached by local police then you should get a criminal Defense attorney for Rhode Island, you may also want to make a list of potential attorneys who deal with extradition as well.