He was being in appropriate with my daughters? I’m not honestly looking to ‘blame’ someone here but with his boundaries pertaining to dangerous sexual activity you can back off a little bit.
This attitude and sentiment is a big part of the problem here. All of you adults should step back, grow the heck up and start looking at what is best for the kids involved here, not acting like petty brats on a playground trying to hurt each other.
You don't like this ex, she doesn't like you, etc. = not relevant. What do the kids need here? Instead of dumping this older son into a mix of anger and resentment and then blaming him for acting out, you all need to figure out how to improve the overall family dynamic so he feels safe, comfortable and able to love and accept new siblings rather than that he's in a competition for affection with them and you. That also means family therapy, not arranging therapy for the one kid and expecting a therapist to "fix" the terrible family dynamic you have created.
A kid hugging his young siblings too tightly is aggressive and undesireable, but calling that "dangerous sexual activity" is quite a leap. You are obviously not thrilled with having to deal with this stepchild and he clearly feels that. It's hardly surprising (or unusual) for him to react by behaving aggressively to the younger siblings who he feels are favored and competing for his dad's affection. You can either try to portray him as a predator, which will further push him away and probably aggravate any problem behavior or you can do the hard work to make your family a welcoming, supportive place for him, do family therapy, help him feel just as loved as the siblings and it's likely this hugging will cease to be an issue.
I served as a Court Appointed Special Advocate for foster children for many years and am fairly attuned to "There's more to this story" type stories... and if you're currently having only supervised visits and calling hugging "dangerous sexual activity", that's a pretty good indicator there is waaaaay more to this story and CPS, the courts and your attorney will see that as well.