The rules for restraining orders vary but jurisdiction so nobody can answer without knowing the countries that are involved.
Are you a citizen of the country that you plan to move to? If not why do you believe that you qualify to immigrate there?
I’m not but a close friend of mine is, I got a job at her uncle’s firm (nothing special just to get me started) so I’ll be staying there on a student/working visa.
An RO isn't going to stop a person capable of murder, your best bet is likely getting in touch with an organisation well versed in dealing with your situation to advise you.
Moving out of their reach is an excellent idea, but making sure they never find out where you went and what you changed your name too is far more imporant.
ROs provide penalties for breaking them, but that happens after the fact. It would limit any attempt at intimidation, but I'm sorry to say that as you are in real fear for your life, an intending murderer is not likely to be deterred by an RO. If your European country is the UK (can't help with other jurisdictions), restraining orders are generally only issued on criminal conviction of the subject, or a finding in court that regardless of a not guilty verdict, you likely need protection.
That's a criminal offence in and of itself- a (successful) prosecution for making threats to kill would incapacitate the people doing the threatening for the duration of their sentence, and in the UK at least, would provide grounds for the judge to issue a permanent 'protective order'. During any investigation, you're likely to get a temporary restraining order against any named defendant who faces charges connected to the threats, regardless of age.
Evidence could simply be your sworn statement for a TRO, as it would then get the ball rolling on their investigation and (hopefully) prosecution. For conviction, the police/CPS would need to show evidence of a clear threat to your life, made with intent, for each defendant. If there are any text messages, emails, or sound recordings (you can use apps such as "Echo" on your phone, which do a rolling record of sound- you then save retroactively after an incident), then those will definitely help get a conviction.