It's likely in their state of panic the parents couldn't find your pulse. Your heart probably didn't stop. Most likely, you fainted.
Could've been an allergic reaction to something in the joint or just the smoke inhalation. You should probably see a doctor about it because you may have an undiagnosed heart condition.
What happened can only be determined by a physician and will require a series of tests to determine if you had a cardiac event or other emergency that could’ve led to sudden cardiac arrest. I can’t stress to you enough that if you truly believe you went into cardiac arrest based on the what you’ve been told, you need to go to the hospital now. You should have then, but you can’t undue the past. Any emergency that stops your heart requires prompt medical care as soon as possible. Even if the event itself has passed, the underlying cause and/or any lasting damage can make you a ticking time bomb. I’m telling you this because it’s that serious.
The first thing you would need to do is to figure out what even happened to you. You don't actually know that this is not the result of some underlying, previously unknown condition - you're just assuming it's the fault of whoever sold you the joint.
I don’t necessarily believe your heart stopped, but the CBD industry is extremely unregulated and the FDA has bulletins issued all the time about weird things showing up in CBD marketed products. Not saying this happened or it caused your episode, but even if it did, you won’t get very far in proving it since you don’t have any medical reports from that day.
I’m not sure your heart would have actually fully stopped, because if you had a 2-3 minute downtime with no pulse I don’t think you’d be left with the cognitive ability to write this post, there had to have been some blood flow through the brain and still a heart rate.
Still scary though nonetheless, maybe a sudden drop in blood pressure when you finally stood up (orthostatic hypotension) which could easily cause you to pass out / respond this way.