However, "cicer" was also a slang term meaning "testicle", with a fairly straightforward origin of this as a slang term being suggested by the somewhat scrotal appearance of a chickpea pod:
If the dish was "ram's testicles", then it is very appropriate for Aries. The "arietinum" chickpea is also appropriate.
give a good indication of the variety. The Gemini dish is testicles and kidneys, both paired organs. An African fig, while being African to suit a lion, is not particularly leonine. "ficus" does have an alternative slang meaning, of "hemorrhoids", but seems unlikely as a dish.
Hi, just a quick comment about chickpeas, because I think you were so close to the answer but then completely missed it....As much as I'd love to associate chickpeas with testicles, the simple fact is that a chickpea resembles a ram's head - it has two little "horns." The "arie" in the latin name "arietinum" is in reference to that. The connection between chickpeas and rams seems actually pretty explicit to me.
Just as a side note, and I do apologize for this not being up to the usual standards of this sub since I'm referring to wikipedia but this seems just a matter of reference: Vetches are a genus of legumes. The use of the word vetches in the translation is not scientifically accurate. Vetches and Chickpeas both belong to the same family, Fabaceae, and are closely related, but it would be like us colloquially referring to a spider as a bug, when spiders are arthropods and "true bugs" their own specific order:
A variety of other guesses have been made, such as an arrow-shaped squid or cuttlefish (Ramón Baltar Veloso, "Octolepa", Glotta 84, 50-51 (2008)) or that it's a copyist's error for "otopeta", "ocipeta", or "osclopeta".
The Roman use of "cicer" included the "cicercula" (Lathyrus sativus), as noted by Pliny in the link above. L. sativus is a vetch, so translating "cicer" as "vetch" isn't entirely wrong. However, the arietinum variety is not a vetch.
Are you say it's a dish of chickpeas? That doesn't sound right for the context of the meal. But its symbolic so I might be misunderstanding it. Chickpeas also don't have 2 horns, they have 2 lobes and a single point. Is there an ancient variety that looked different or is my modern viewpoint misinterpreting it?
Whether this variety is still grown, or still common, I know not. (My original comment is now edited; thanks for the further details.).
Rose, K., & Sullivan, J. (1968), "Trimalchio's Zodiac Dish (Petronius, Sat. 35. 1-5)", The Classical Quarterly 18(1), 180-184.
One further question regarding that passage. It references a Bull's Eye on Sagittarius. A very understandable play on word. Was the term/concept that old?
Alas, the meaning of "oclopeta" is unknown. "Bull's eye" as a rebus for "bullseye" is a modern guess, and I'm not aware of a similar Latin usage for the centre of a target. The Oxford English Dictionary gives 1833 as the first use of "bullseye" for the centre of a target, with earlier uses for small round things, 1699 being the earliest (for a one crown coin). "Bull's eye" is a common guess, and assumes "oclo" comes from "oclus", a variant of "oculus", meaning "eye" or "eye-like spot or hole".