The fact that it was from the same store doesn’t really matter all that much. Jail time is possible (though I can’t tell you the sentencing range because I don’t see your state listed), but between COVID serving as an incentive to keep incarceration numbers down, only having one prior, and the fact that you paid for the food make it seem unlikely to me that you’ll do any time. Taking a plea deal before court is pretty much always an option. Most states allow you to access a public defender for misdemeanors, though there may be a fee. Call the court where you are set to appear and ask if a public defender is an option.
It looks at first glance based on this information that the Class A misdemeanor you were cited for can carry a sentence of up to 1 yr in jail and up to a $5000 fine, with the possibility of a suspended sentence/probation. It looks like you may be able to get a PD (public defender) for a misdemeanor charge depending on your county so I still suggest calling the court. All of this is from Indiana Code § 35-43-4-1. Right now, you are ticketed with the Class A misdemeanor but the prosecutor can choose to upgrade the charge so it’s important that you do not get into any more trouble as this is resolved. Indiana has strict shoplifting laws, so because you have a prior shoplifting conviction, this could technically be charged as a level 6 felony (6 month-2.5 yr prison sentence, all or some of which can be suspended while you complete probation.) I am not saying it will be upgraded nor am I trying to scare you, but the reality of your situation is that it’s a possibility.
So the short answer to your questions: probation over prison is possible and yes you can take a plea deal prior to your court date if one is offered to you.
Thank you The one I spoke to cost 1200, I’m assuming that’s the lowest they go on that kind of thing so I’d have to set up a payment plan. I appreciate the honesty I’ll probably update the post in the coming months on what ends up happening.
I live in Indiana. The attorney cost is 1200 and I can’t help but cringe at that, but if it keeps me out of the actual jail, I’ll deal since I can’t afford anyone to watch my kids either.