Is that even possible? Usually the student themselves has to participate in dropping/withdrawing from a school, because if someone else could come along and unilaterally withdraw them from school without their consent and/or participation, that would cause all kinds of messes.
It may not be possible, but me (being 18) and her having no clue about college resulted in the situation I am in. Basically, my step mom told me she would take care of it while I was in a completely different city.
I would have thought the school would drop me automatically after not showing up to any classes the first 2 weeks. I know they at least threaten to do that at many schools if you don't show up on the first day....soo yeah.
NAL, but work in Higher Education in the US. No, this is not possible, even if you were underage. FERPA requires that all information from a Higher Education institution only be shared with the student, unless a waiver was signed to allow the guardian access to student records.
Technically, the school should have dropped you for non-attendance or non-payment during the first week of classes. However, each institution has their own policy - from 11 years ago.
Now, if it was a private or for-profit institution, FERPA still applies but they can have wildly different policies compared to a state-accredited institution. Based on the information provided, I am guessing it was a for-profit institution.
So, as I'm understanding this, you registered for classes, didn't withdraw before the drop/add date and therefore owed tuition, but did withdraw by the midterm drop date, so got Ws on your transcript rather than Fs.
A "W" usually means "withdrawn" which is what you get when you drop classes after the drop/add deadline, so you did drop from those classes. If you weren't withdrawn from those classes you would have had an F.
SO if my step mom wasn't able to drop me then I'm not sure what happened. I guess I SHOULD have received Fs but they just told me that they are all Ws.
I never personally contacted them again after signing up for courses. I believe I did it at the orientation I attended. Im a first-gen college student so I was completely ignorant and overwhelmed and honestly had no idea what I was doing during that period. I found out that the state university, last minute, was going to offer me a bigger scholarship so I just packed up and moved there without giving the other school a second thought.
The statute of limitations has passed, so they cannot come after you via the legal system for that debt, but that doesn't mean they have to give you your transcript when you still owe them money. I think you are going to have to negotiate with them and see what they will be willing to take in return for releasing your transcripts.