For one—SpaceX’s President, Gwynne Shotwell, made the call. Two, civilian internet systems can not be weaponized—this breaks US and international laws. SpaceX is just following the rules.
For one, Elon already tried this and was heavily rebuked for it. Having the CEO now do it, doesn't change the fact that ultimately this came from Elon. Two, The US is supplying funding for these systems in Ukraine, The US is well aware of if this breaks any current rules or regulations.
SpaceX is providing Starlink for communications use, not for weaponization. They are following US and International laws.
Apologies on Gwen you are correct there, but the difference is semantics and the statement still applies.
Because Russia cares so much about "international law". They started this war, they don't get the luxury of hiding behind the law they already chose to ignore. To even suggest that is beyond disgusting and inhumane.
It has been well known that starlinks has been used for more than that since well before Elon tried to kill the service and blackmail the US gov for outrageous charges before. He was rebuked on both fronts. Starlinks were then continued to be sent already. This is just another attempt.
I'm not a lawyer but I was on both sides of the ITAR wall, prior to immigrating. The company I worked at was fined millions and had to have a government mandated export control officer on site for years, simply because the door lock separating my office from my US coworkers was not up to standard.
If Ukraine uses Starlink to guide drones and munitions, it will be considered guided missile technology, and will be subjected to heavy export restrictions by the US.
This means a lot more paperwork to sell the product in US friendly countries, and even more problems in non-, friendly regimes, which I imagine would have a population that would benefit the most from open internet access.
For example, if Starlink became ITAR, it would not be able to be provided to normal Iranian or Chinese residents looking to escape bans and firewalls.
This was a company whose main business was helicopter modifications for law enforcement and third world militaries.
This is civilian tech already being sold world wide. Not sure what your company was working with, but I could see that.
Using civilian tech for military purposes has it's own risks, in the cyber attack areas, already. It is not a threat to US secrets.
How about we just let the lawyers decide this. The US is fully in a position to shut this down already is it wanted to at all. All of this has been going on for well over a year and has been very public.
Then what the US needs to do is have written guarantee to Elon that they will allow this exception to EAR and ITAR.
"International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) establishes controls regarding the export and import of defense-related items and services that appear on the United States Munitions List (USML). ITAR is meant to limit access to specific technologies and their associated data resources.Dec 21, 2022".
Pixhawk is an open source hobby grade autopilot developed by a swiss nonprofit, openly shared in the internet, and partially manufactured by a US company 3DR. The US still had them shut down exports even though a North Korean could just download the whole design package and make it locally.
This does not fall under guided missiles, as the missiles themselves are mostly developed in Ukraine or otherwise already approved for use by Ukraine by various governments. Beside the fact that we are already providing much more sensitive stuff to Ukraine, including now Abrams.
Defense articles can be broken down into two categories: (a) physical items (often referred to as "commodities") and (b) technical data. The ITAR contain a list of defense articles called the US Munitions List ("USML"), which can be found at 22 CFR §121.1. The USML is broken down into the following categories:
The US was not the one invading Ukraine for no reason. Nothing we do causes us to lose the moral upper ground here unless we aid Russia.
However the moment you use it to guide munitions, that's all off the table. Pixhawk was an open source hobby grade autopilot, that technically has schematics anyone can download and use. It was manufactured and exported by a US company for years, and developed by a swiss nonprofit. The US had them shut down all exports even though a North Korean could just download the whole design package and make it locally under open source license.
"In military terminology, a missile is a guided airborne ranged weapon capable of self-propelled flight usually by a jet engine or rocket motor.[1] Missiles are thus also called guided missiles or guided rockets (when a previously unguided rocket is made guided). Missiles have five system components: targeting, guidance system, flight system, engine and warhead.".
Who says you can not use Public internet for weapons guidance? GPS systems are public in themselves. Are cell phones also a part of this as pictures from them have also been used to coordinate attacks....
The Fed has gone after companies for violations of far less severity, with consequences that can kill any company.
How exactly is a civilian technology covered under this when it is already sold around the world? and was intended to do so.
Yes, and the US is not a formally a party to the war, and has not said that it will allow exceptions to US law for this war.
Being used for military activities is not automatically ITAR or EAR. For example most walkie talkies used by third world country militaries. There is also the concept of dual purpose applications. So using Starlink for military communications alone is not necessarily a violation unless certain types of encryption were used or anything ITAR was in the terminals.
"ITAR regulations dictate that information and material pertaining to defense and military-related technologies (items listed on the U.S. Munitions List) may only be shared with US persons unless authorization from the Department of State is received to export the material or information to a foreign person.[3] US persons (including organizations; see legal personality) can face heavy fines if they have, without authorization or the use of an exemption, provided foreign persons with access to ITAR-protected defense articles, services or technical data.".
And as for spacex just following rules. Elon already tried this once, in addition to trying to blackmail the US gov for outrageous cost (far over what they make in other countries to operate) while they were already proving funding for these systems. The US has no issues with this use of tech.
Moreso, every drone maker that has drones operating over in Ukraine, since people sent them their home drones which have been used to drop grenades and collect intel, would be liable.
General Dynamics cannot just ship tanks to Ukraine. They have to get an export license first, and the US government decides which technologies are too sensitive to send and removes them. This already happened with the Abrams as the ones for Ukraine will not have DU armor.
Musk already made clear he sides with Putin. Let's not put pretend nonsense out there that he gives a single fuck about the well being of anyone but himself.
Don't be fooled by the misinformation out there regarding this. This is not military tech, it is freely available to the public already.
The whole reason starlink was even able to play such a critical role in the early stage of the war, is that it was not EAR or ITAR and could be exported freely.
If the US were to determine Starlink is now subject to EAR or ITAR, Starlink would need to shut down all international connectivity until it can get licenses for each export in each country, which could take years.
Why is Russia invading a sovereign country relevant to discussion on why Russia should not be protected by the laws they already ignored?
Russia loses its protection under the law for its actions. It doesn't lose its culpability under the law. They started the war, they no longer get protection by the laws they already ignored. They will certainly face punishment under those laws though.
Using public internet is unsecure, using them leaves you open for hacking and interception. That is all.
This is just Elon being Elon and he's been here before. Tesla, space x deserve to rot due to what Elon has done to them.
However the moment you use it to guide munitions, that's all off the table. Pixhawk was an open source hobby grade autopilot, that technically has schematics anyone can download and use. It was manufactured and exported by a US company for years, and developed by a swiss nonprofit. The US had them shut down all exports even though a North Korean could just download the whole design package and make it locally under open source license.
ITAR is to protect military secrets, this is civilian and already sold around the world. See my other replies.
Using civ tech for military purposes has most certainly been done before and will be. however it comes with it's own risks and is why it's not used more frequently. GPS systems alone are public, can't use those coordinates?