In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Which writ, warrant, mandate or other court issued method was used by the FBI in the process of Biden asking them to search his shit for more documents?
Likely human error as, from reports that I've read, it's a small number of rocuments like less than 30 from many different larger files. Trump had numerous files and hundreds of thousands of documents.
Trump has personally admitted that he took some documents as a souvenir. Which makes any prosecutors job a hell of a lot easier.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Needs to be taken forcibly or suddenly. This whole ordeal was planned, and consensual. Again, I understand that you struggle with consent, but keep up or shut up.
It's nowhere near as bad. If they're from his time as vice president, the National Archives obviously didn't know they were even missing and he wasn't trying to prevent their return. Trump basically ignored the NA informing him they were missing documents and asked form then to be returned and Trump basically refused to cooperate to the point his home was raided. Biden has been fully cooperating and he/his staff had previously found documents and returned them on their own.
Knowingly obtains or exerts unauthorized control over the property of another, with intent to deprive the owner of his or her property;.
Knowingly obtains by deception control over the property of another, with intent to deprive the owner of his or her property; or.
Knowingly obtains or exerts control over property in the custody of a law enforcement agency which was explicitly represented to the person by an agent of the law enforcement agency as being stolen.
Documents hes said he wasnt aware he had, and is working with the DOJ to ensure that any more are found and turn in.
So unless youve got a source that shows otherwise happened with Biden, youve got speculation that holds about as much weight as the idea that Trumps telepathically declassified, personally owned, but planted by the FBI documents are 100% legal.
Big difference here is that Biden was likely entirely unaware, as was the National Archives, that any documents were missing. Both Trump and the NA knew Trump was in possession of documents.
They both did wrong, but you know damn well theyre both not getting the same treatment because there is a clear distinction.
Thats part of the problem. If you didnt have anything to say when it happened then, you have no ground to talk here.
Lets draw a bit of a comparison here. 2 people speed down the road, 2 people get lit up by the cops.
Biden handed over his documents the moment they were discovered. Trump lied and refused to hand them over.
Trump could easily have just handed his documents back and we would never have heard anything about it. For some reason he first denied he had them then ignored 2 subpoenas and finally the FBI had to retrieve the docs.
Biden handed his over the moment they were discovered, by his own lawyers who could easily have just destroyed the evidence.
Biden has a much better case for lost/forgotten about than Trump who clearly was desperate to hang on to his documents. Some of which Trump took out of the WH 2 days before his term ended.