If the court says no can I appeal this somehow? When I called the court house I offered to take a test but the person I talked to said it wasn't needed. I would take a test in a heartbeat. It would prove the baby is not mine.
When I phoned the court house to try and explain why I'm not the father I got told there was no need for a test. Can I appeal this because my ex-wife isn't replying to me or my requests for a paternity test and I don't know how else to get one.
Arrange for a DNA test , when you get the results make a few copies to have ready when you are asked to go to court. Having proof in black and white might sway the court in your favor and have the judge order a paternity test on her new husband.
You really need an attorney for this. But if you absolutely can not get one, you next step is to file a motion to determine paternity.
Make sure you are filing this motion in your child support case, not your divorce case, as these are separate matters.
Laziness, but also the court/clerk itself usually would not be able (read: willing) to offer you legal advice, or even a next step. -- if they have any information that leads them to believe she was pregnant prior to the finalization of the divorce, you are currently, in their eyes, de facto father.
It's not unlikely that anyone, without reason, would offer additional information that would immediately add to their work load.
Edit: This is not just your best, fastest way to clear yourself, but even with expenses accrued through the process will certainly mitigate costs of, instead, being held legally, financially responsible for the child for roughly 17 more years.
There is need for a test, but the courts must be dealt with in proper form, I.E., from a lawyer -- Hire one and request an official, recognized paternity test immediately. Ask your lawyer about payments in the interim, it is likely not in your best interest to give even a dime unless actually ordered by the court.
Granted your usage is perhaps more on-point simply because it is a legal matter, but i was using the common Cambridge Dictionary form, which gives exception.
/ ˌdeɪ ˈfæk.toʊ / existing in fact, although perhaps not intended, legal, or accepted: "The city is rapidly becoming the de facto centre of the financial world." "He's her de facto husband though they're not actually married.".
Stop discussing the matter with her. She is "the other side" right now. Nothing you say to her will help you in any way, even if the divorce was amicable and she is friendly to you, you need to consider her an opponent.
I suggest that you contact a family law attorney.? They can better advise and guide you. This route is definitely cheaper than paying child support for the next 18 years.
The process server gave me the child support case paperwork last week. I think they are from Department of Human Services but I don't know for sure. I'm very confused about all this.
I've tried explaining to the court house that I'm not the father and why I'm not and I asked them for a paternity test but I got told a test wasn't needed on this case. I don't know how to get one done and I want to appeal that.
It is the state who is coming after me because my ex-wife told me she is getting government assistance.