As you already admit yourself in the question, you're asking about 2 very different things: the world of Homer and Bronze Age Greece. It's important to keep the two completely separate. The Homeric epics contain some references to the Greek world in the Late Bronze Age (c. 1250-1100 BC), but the Greeks of the time when it was composed (c. 700 BC) did not have a memory of such an age and did not understand the technological implications of setting a story in that age. Instead, the Homeric epics are set in the Age of Heroes, which is emphatically not a time of normal humans and human history. Its warfare is most likely inspired by the contemporary warfare of the early Archaic period, when both bronze and iron were in general use.
The heroes of Homeric epic all carry more or less the same bronze weapons and heavy armour: helmets, breastplates, girdles and greaves. With a few exceptions (such as Aias' famous tower shield made of nine layers of oxhide) they are not distinguished from each other by the nature of their equipment, but by its value. There is a tremendous emphasis on how nice people's gear looks and how much it might be worth as an item of exchange. Some armour is made of linen or bronze while other pieces made of gold or tin are clearly fantasy items meant to show off the heroes' wealth. The point of all this is to show that this world is full of supernatural heroes with supernaturally deep coffers. Their way of fighting is more or less the same for everyone.
Unfortunately there are no surviving descriptions of fighting in Bronze Age Greece. There are some neat images, like the Mycenaean that shows the detail of warriors' equipment (and also, you know, is a sword), and the so-called found in a grave at Pylos, which shows two warriors fighting. What these images tell us is that the use of metal-tipped spears and metal swords was well-established, along with massive figure-of-eight tower shields (presumably of reinforced hide, though wood or wicker are other possibilities) and crested metal or ivory helmets for personal protection. Even if we assume that only the wealthiest warriors would have been able to afford this gear, it was at least common enough not to raise any eyebrows, and the enemy would no doubt have bronze-armed warriors of their own to neutralise these champions.
While the great mass of warriors in the Iliad would not have been able to afford much or any of this armour, they also rarely make an appearance in descriptions of heroic deeds. Heroes cleaving their way through hordes of enemies aren't described as fighting these poorer masses, because there was no glory in that; to win fame you had to kill someone famous. The ones killed by Agamemnon or Sarpedon or Achilles are all named lords and we can assume that they would have all worn similar types of armour. Many of the implied victims of such aristeia (Great Deeds) may have been the unlucky infantry meant to back up the lords in battle, but the only opponents worth mentioning were other heroes, and these would not have been at any disadvantage of equipment. There is no better proof of this than the scene where the Greek Diomedes and the Trojan Glaukos exchange armour as a courtesy when they learn that their ancestors were guest-friends. When heroes like Hektor carve a bloody path through the enemy, it is because they are better than other warriors (or because the gods are helping them), not because they happen to have a sharper spear.
So much for the Iliad, where technological differences clearly cannot and do not explain any part of the story. But what about the actual Bronze Age?
Could the same be true for bronze age Greece? That we just did not find the right excavation sites yet?
The armor exchange is weird and even homer admits this. After the exchange occurs homer says that Zeus (who incidentally was know by the epithet Xenios because of his role in guest host relationships) robbed Glaucus of his senses. It is introduced as a social custom. Both men are mortals, and their link is purely social. By adding the aside about how Zeus stole Glaucus’s wits, however, Homer makes plain that honoring the requirements of xenia is a religious duty as much as it is a courtesy.
But even if that kind of imitation wasn't a factor - even if we imagine the first battle in which the first man ever used a bronze weapon - just having a slightly more effective weapon or piece of armour doesn't make you Superman. A rock to the head will take you out, whether you're carrying a stick or sword or an AR-15. Stone clubs, axes and spears, and arrows made of flint or bone, don't instantly become useless the moment someone introduces copper or (eventually) bronze. Even covered head to toe in bronze armour like the massive Mycenaean , you are not completely invulnerable. Indeed, the humble rock never disappears from ancient warfare; in the hands of slingers and articllery crew it remained one of the most lethal weapons around, but even in the hands of a poor and desperate warrior with nothing but his own muscles to rely on, it can lay a guy out flat if it hits. No ancient warrior would think, just because he was holding a new kind of weapon, that he was better than all the other warriors in the world.
The reason for this is that equipment like this tends to spread fast, not just because it works, but because it is treasured as a status symbol. In the ancient world, new military equipment and tactics often spread not through conquest and adaptation, but through what's known as peer-polity interaction - a fancy word for "if the guys cross the bay have it, we should have it too." Prized metal items of all kinds are susceptible to this, as are forms of military organisation, military architecture and the like. They were not kept secret and only discovered at the next battle; they would be shown/built/worn long before they were ever used in anger. And no lord wanted to live in a village if his peers were living in fortified palaces.
Beowulf also spoke of gold gifts and numerous golden items which were deemed fictional until the Staffordshire Hoard was discovered. Now it seems a lot more plausible.
Can you expand on the guest-friend relationship? I've heard that guests were treasured/respected above much else in Greco-Roman society, but I wouldn't have expected it to go so far as obligating your descendants to do anything, so I'm curious on what that relationship entailed, how it was established, etc etc.
I can address this, but I’m doing this largely from memory, and I haven’t thought hard about this topic since undergrad, so if anybody has anything to add to this or correct, I’d appreciate it.
The most obvious example of Xenia in the Iliad is the aforementioned exchange of armor between Diomedes and Glaucus in Book VI. In the passage, Diomedes notices Glaucus and asks him whether he is a god or a mortal, and Glaucus responds by telling him his ancestry, saying “As is the generation of leaves, so is that of humanity. The wind scatters the leaves on the ground, but the live timber burgeons with leaves again in the season of spring returning. So one generation of men will grow while another dies” (VI.146-149). Glaucus’s point is that humanity shares common bonds that don’t expire as generations die. After his simile of leaves, he tells Diomedes his lineage, and Diomedes recognizes that their grandfathers had been bound by xenia.
The guest-host relationship, xenia, was a set of customs for how hosts should treat strangers and vice versa. Most of these customs are reflected in Greek mythology, especially in Homer.
The whole Trojan War started because of a violation of xenia, when Paris abducted his host Menelaus’s wife, Helen. The fact that the largest war that the Greeks attributed the greatest conflict in their “history” shows just how important they considered it.
In the Odyssey xenia takes on a far more significant role. Telemachus is visited by Athena in the form of the human Mentes, whom he welcomes into his home and offers food. One of the reasons that xenia is so important, it turns out, is that you don’t know whom you may be offending (as the suitors would find out later), possibly a king or a god in disguise. Once again we see a religious reason for this custom.
Athena tells Telemachus to seek information about his father. So Telemachus visits Nestor and Menelaus and Helen, who welcome him into their homes and tell him stories about his father. Odysseus washes up on the shores of Phaeacia, and is made the guest of honor in a feast before The Phaeacians have even learned his identity. At the feast games are held, a blind bard, Demodocus, tells stories about Odysseus (whose identity still has not been revealed), and finally Odysseus reveals who he is with stories of his own. The Phaeacians also agree to help Odysseus return to Ithaca at last.
Telemachus’s experiences with Nestor and Helen and Menelaus and Odysseus’s experience with the Phaeacians are examples of what xenia is supposed to look like. Meanwhile, for the past decade, the suitors of Penelope have been eating Telemachus and Penelope out of house and home. Upon his return to Ithaca in disguise, Odysseus faces abuse from the unrepentant suitors. The penalty for this perversion of xenia is death. And Odysseus, Telemachus, Eumaeus, Philoetius, and even a disguised Athena kill every last suitor, even the best behaved suitor, Amphinomus.
We also see a similar theme appear in Greek ritual. Cults would often form generating local heroes after they had been dead for some time (e.g. Heracles, Diomedes, or even gifted athletes). A common part of hero worship would be holding a feast, with a place of honor set for the hero. Even if the hero chose not to be present at the banquet, a place was always set for the hero, and nobody would touch that food.