It's not a question of "in the old days", it's a modern practice for half the world's population. Many countries lack a refrigerated chain from abattoir to grocery, where open air butcher shops are common. Freshly butchered meat is stacked or hung in the open air, pretty much all day in hot climates. Sometimes for two days. in Pakistan. You'll find thousands of these across south and southeast Asia, China, and other parts of the world.
If you're wondering "how do people survive", the answer is quite simple - cooking. All meat at the butcher has bacteria growing on it, even the kind you buy plastic-wrapped package in the cold section of your local grocery. If you keep the temperature low enough (below 40 F), bacterial growth is slow and the meat lasts longer. If the temperature is high, bacteria grow faster. The difference isn't one of bacteria or no bacteria, but simply of bacterial load.
It was quite fashionable in Europe to hang game birds in the cellar to tenderize the meat and improve flavor. It's the same principle as dry-aged beef that you can buy from your grocery store today. And while cellars were colder than the temperature above ground, they were nowhere near refrigerator temperatures. It was typical to hang pheasants and partridges at 55 degrees Fahrenheit for about 2 weeks at the Savoy Grill in London, for example. People paid premium prices for such poultry.
Generally, meat is cooked quite thoroughly in areas where such open air butcher shops are found. You'll find a lot of meat stews, high heat tandoor ovens. Not so many semi-raw steaks or burgers. This makes the meat safe to eat.
Cooking reduces the bacterial load by killing bacteria. Cooking also destroys most toxins produced by bacteria, with a few notable exceptions, like botulinum toxin produced by various species of Clostridia. Luckily, these bacteria require anaerobic conditions (low oxygen) to survive, so you won't find them in meat that's left in the open air.
Of course, food borne illnesses do happen, if the meat is cooked improperly. You'll often come across reports like "dozens of guests taken sick at wedding dinner" in local news. This happens because the food is cooked on site, in temporary kitchens specifically for the occasion, and mistakes happen when you're cooking for hundreds of guests in a hurry, on makeshift premises.
But by and large, cooking at the right temperature for a sufficient period of time renders most food (including meat) safe to eat. As I said, there are some exceptions such as botulinus, but these are more a consequence of canning techniques which create anaerobic environments, so they are more a "modern" thing.
Cooking can also be used to prolong the shelf life of already cooked food. For example, in places without refrigeration, people will often "re-cook" the day's leftovers to use the next day. This simply involves bringing the food to a boil, then cover the pot and turn off the heat. A quick form of pasteurization that resets the day's bacterial load back to zero, giving the food a few more hours of safety.
It's also worth noting that "spoilage" doesn't equal pathogenicity. Spoilage is simply a change in the food's appearance, taste or odor, which people find unpleasant. It can be caused by many bacteria which don't cause disease in humans. Pathogenicity is due to bacteria that are known to specifically cause disease. Sometimes, the two can work at opposite ends, for example lactobacillus (which causes spoilage) is itself harmless to humans, and even inhibits the growth of some pathogenic bacteria.
This is more a topic in biology and food science rather than history, so if you care to read more, I can point you to some resources:
The CDC states that if you leave food out of the fridge for over two hours, harmful bacteria can grow. You can cook the bacteria off, but heat won’t destroy the toxins they leave. Is that the botulinum toxins you are referring to?
It seems the CDC guidelines for food spoilage is extremely stringent compared much of the world. Am I missing something??
GILL, C. O., & NEWTON, K. G. (1980). Growth of Bacteria on Meat at Room Temperatures. Journal of Applied Bacteriology, 49(2), 315–323.
As I mentioned in my previous post, bacteria begin growing on the surface of the meat as soon as the animal is killed and the flesh exposed. The long refrigerated chain in the US doesn't prevent that, it only slows the growth. Meat that takes a week or two weeks to reach you can have fairly high bacterial loads even though it was refrigerated all the way, simply because even slow growth adds up over time. Whereas if the chain is shorter, then the shorter time makes up a bit for the higher temperatures from lack of refrigeration.
I know dry aging can keep meat fresh in dry/cool climate, but Pakistan gets very hot where that wouldn’t be possible for much of the year. Do people just have more resistant guts based on their diet?
But if people are honest, many home cooks will tell you that they've forgotten meat they left to thaw on the counter for several hours, and then cooked and eaten it without any problems. Proper cooking covers for a multitude of mistakes.
As /u/Kochevnik81 said, it's a matter of excessive caution on the principle that it's better to be safe than sorry. And also to make allowances for the fact that the meat has probably been mistreated at several stages during its journey from slaughterhouse to your home, so you shouldn't compound risks any further.
Also, as he said, you can't expect people to read technical articles to understand all the nuances at play, you want to give them a simple, easy to remember rule of thumb which works 99% of the time. That's how "no more than 2 hours" became the recommendation.
The chain is much shorter in countries like Pakistan. Unlike the US, where the animal may have been raised on a farm thousands of miles away, then sent to a meat packing plant in the opposite direction from you, and finally made it to your grocery in some circuitous way, butcher shops in Pakistan often have the slaughterhouse in the back of the same store. The meat doesn't travel thousands of miles, it just travels a few short yards from animal to shop. Even if the slaughtering isn't done on site, it will often be done at some location in the same town.
Systems are adapted for their location. If you tried to move the US process to Pakistan, only without the refrigeration, then a lot of people would get very sick. But they don't do that, their process is different.
As for people having "more resistant guts", sure, to some extent. The immune system responds to whatever challenges it faces, and if you are habitually exposed to certain pathogens then your body will become better at dealing with them. That doesn't mean they're more resistant to any pathogen, just the ones that they're exposed to. And of course, the immune system has its limits. Increase the bacterial load and a point will come where your immune system can't handle it. This is true for people anywhere.
CHUNG, K, DICKSON, J & GROUSE J. (1989). Attachment and Proliferation of Bacteria on Meat. Journal of Food Protection, 52(3), 173-177.
Actually as a bonus, I'll note that some of this is actually plain national regulations. For instance, the US Department of Agriculture requires eggs to be sold refrigerated in US stores, and you'll see them on that CDC perishables list.
Without opening a whole can of worms from the past year, the CDC has to balance between providing recommendations on best practices for the general public, versus getting extremely technical and exact in explaining the science.
They're specifically providing recommendations here for individuals keeping food at home. Frankly, if markets followed these recommendations to the letter, they'd have to throw most of their fruits and vegetables away because (at least in my extensive US supermarket experience) nowhere near all fruits and vegetables are stocked in refrigerated sections of stores.
Part of what the CDC I believe is accounting for are things like: American supermarkets keeping perishables in stock for a number of days (the meat you buy has probably sat there for a few days, even if it's refrigerated ETA and that's not even getting into the fact that the animals were more likely than not initially slaughtered and prepped at a site hundreds to thousands of miles away from the supermarket), American consumers overwhelmingly purchasing groceries and then transporting them to their homes by vehicle, and usually buying to stock up for days, a week, or even longer. On top of that is the American preference for things like rare meat and uncooked fruits and vegetables.
It's very different from places where you visit markets for food on a daily basis and then cook (usually extremely thoroughly) food at high temperatures that day.
However it actually is illegal to sell refrigerated eggs to consumers in the . They're sold as a regular grocery item (if memory serves me correctly it's something similar in Central American supermarkets).
It's actually not all of Europe selling room temperature eggs, and refrigerating eggs isn't just a US thing. It looks like also sell refrigerated eggs.
I made it sound like it's just an arbitrary regulation, but there's actually reasons why one set of countries has to refrigerate eggs and another doesn't.
Britain and the EU vaccinate their hens against salmonella, while the US and the other cold egg countries treat against salmonella externally, ie freshly-laid eggs are washed in hot, soapy water, and disinfected with chlorine to kill external salmonella, and then refrigerated to prevent any internal spread from the hens. The thing with this process is that it removes the waxy cuticle on the porous shells, and once the eggs are refrigerated in the supply chain they pretty much have to stay that way (if they are removed from cooler temperatures long enough the eggs will sweat).