She should inform the law firm that sent the documents and inform them of their error in including other people's documents. She may also consider reporting it to the appropriate county or state bar association.
It sounds like your fiancée needs her own lawyer. It isn't her responsibility to pay her ex's legal fees (unless it's a spousal support situation but that doesn't seem to be the case here).
Has the divorce been finalized? What documents specifically did she want changed? How were they filed without giving her an opportunity to review and sign? She at the very least should insist on having her money returned even if it's too late to make the requested amendments.
She should absolutely make an issue of this. It sounds like she might be letting her ex and his lawyers take advantage of the fact that she doesn't have a lawyer and probably wants this whole process over with. It can't be finalized without her signature, so she just needs to refuse to sign until it's done. If he doesn't want to make those changes she needs a lawyer to advocate for her interests or she's at risk of getting the short end of the stick here.
In any kind of legal proceeding, and especially a divorce, if the other side has a lawyer, you need your own lawyer. The ex's lawyer is NOT working for your fiance, he's working for her ex. Don't trust him to do anything until you see it on paper.
Thank you for the help! My fiancé doesn’t have a lawyer so I’m guessing the documents were sent to her ex to review, and the info still needs to be sent to a court for final approval in the next six weeks. She wanted to change the transportation agreement so she didn’t have to drive the kids to his house every time, and that she could have the kids on alternating Christmases because it currently says he gets them every Christmas.
Now, since she sent a check to him, she might have a decent argument that he needs to make the changes she paid for, and if she approaches it that way, she should be able to make him either file the changes or refund her money, but it would be far, far better to hire her own lawyer, no matter how much the ex says she doesn't need one.