You can sue here. Obviously in that litigation if they show up with a copy of the letter they sent you lose.
What happens in small claims court if I lose? I'd accept that if they had proof but I don't want to be on the hook for their fees or of for some crazy reason they involved a lawyer.
You won’t be ordered to pay their attorneys fees without a specific agreement that the loser in litigation pays fees. Theoretically I guess your lease might be that.
I think so, yes. According to their website, they're required to send notification to the DMV within 30 minutes of completing the tow. I'll also double check my lease but I don't think it would mention that, I'd think the contract is between the landlord company and the tow company.
Why do you think the tow operator didn’t send a request for information to the New York DMV that has been slow in response for COVID and distance?
This really does feel like you’re abusing process trying to catch a tow operator on a technicality. If your car was righteously towed you should pay your fees and retrieve it. If it was not righteously towed there would be a better argument than this one.
I'm not contesting the tow. I paid the tow fee. I'm not trying to get the fee back. I'm not trying to say I shouldn't have been towed. I'm saying I upheld my end of the contract, I need them to uphold theirs by proving this letter. I have reason to believe the letter wasn't sent VS not receiving it yet as first of all I've received other forwarded mail without issue, including state paperwork for other departments. Additionally the letter is the only official notice the tow company provides, and they charge a holding fee over 48 hours using the letter as only notification to mark these 48 hours. I'm not contesting the tow, just the notification that was never sent.
It appears there’s every reason to think here that they may have notified the DMV but never had to notify you because you came to pick up the car.
So you want to sue them for $0 for being one third party who maybe didn't send a letter to another third party. To win your $0 you'd have to prove in court that they didn't send the letter, how would you do that, given that letters can be lost in the mail or in the bureaucracy? And what court is going to hear a $0 lawsuit?
Where's that reason? They're not the ones sending me the letter in the first place no matter when I pick up the car. They never would have. The only thing they do is contact the DMV, and then the DMV is the one to contact me. The tow company is never the one to notify the towee no matter what.
I'm more interested in proving they didn't contact the DMV as they are required. That's the question, though, is that the burden of proof is on me and I'm having a hard time proving something that might not exist. The only proof I have is my USPS daily mail log I get in my email, and I believe I can access the history of this on the USPS website. But as far as third party etc, do I not now have a contract with them because of now being a "customer"? I'm filing in small claims court so as far as what court will hear it, I paid the fee so I guess I don't understand why the court wouldn't hear the case. I suppose I could go through all the trouble of filing the paperwork and the county court could tell me no they won't hear the case.
The letter or proof of notification to the DMV. The paperwork I've filled out states I'm not feeling any financial gain from this, just proof the letter was or was not sent. If it turns out the letter was not sent and they're not properly notifying the DMV, I'd proceed from there. But the first step is proof the letter was sent or not sent.
Can you elaborate on this comment? The tow companys website states this is how they proceed with tows and their notification process. How am I not understanding this content?
Plus how would I prove the letter exists vs the letter was sent? What if they have proof something was sent to the DMV, but I still don't have the physical letter? Sorry to bother you, I see you're a quality contributor and I've been stressing about this for months now.
And even if you could "sue to get a letter or proof it was sent" there is no way to find that out definitively.
To which DMV? You're already in violation of Colorado law. And presumably you're still in violation, yes? What are the financial damages you're suing for if you don't dispute the tow was legal?
No financial damages. Paperwork states I'm just seeking this letter or proof it was sent because I don't want to be accused of only seeking financial compensation. I'm not, I just want these people to uphold their end. I assume since the car is registered in NY, they should have contacted the NY DMV. But my NY mail is forwarded to me here, even state paperwork as I've received other paperwork from NYS that has been forwarded here. And if it hadn't been, I'm in regular contact with my family still st that address, and they contact me about all mail that isn't successfully forwarded.
If the letter was sent, how much would the fee have been. If the letter was NOT sent, how much more was the fee? What's the difference in money?
Please see tort comment above about the fee. Additionally, the tow company is held to a contract they did not follow. It does matter. It matters that they are held to same standards they hold their customers, following the contact to a T.
That's up to the state of Colorado or the local licensing board to do. But even if it were something a private citizen could do, there is no way you could "hold" them to a standard. There's nothing for them to fix. Let's say they didn't send the letter and admitted it. What would "holding" look like? Usually they fix the problem. But in this case, that would require a time machine. See how silly this is getting?
First, can anyone prove they didn't follow it. Second, who was the contract with? They have no contract with you, therefore you have no standing to sue them over breach of contract. Your contract was with the apartment complex only.
Here's the legal theory for a lawsuit: someone towed you legally. Local law requires them to do X. They didn't do X (or maybe didn't do X) and then you lost an EXTRA amount of money, $500. So you sue that person for $500 for the EXTRA amount (damages) caused by them not following the rules. Every single small claims case is about money. It's right there in the name. Money and actual damages.
Then you need to sue for the fee back, because that is the only way a court will hear a case to even come close to determining what you want to determine.
They have a contract with the landlord to have access to the cars on site. They have a contract with me after towing my car. Yes I was charged a fee. I am not currently seeking to get it returned. If it was in fact proven no notification was sent, I would seek this fee back, yes. As far as proving no notification was sent, as seen in my post thisnis information i do not have and am seeking advice on how to proceed with that. I have to establish that first though. Additionally as stated by the company itself, they are legally required to notify the DMV (again, admittedly not sure where but I assume NY) of tows within 30 minutes of completion. There's my interest in bringing this to court. They are legally required to complete an action, and I am interested in pursuing if this legally required action was taken. The only "fix" I would seek from this step is the admission that notification wasn't sent to the DMV. Court paperwork does not require financial compensation is sought. It also leaves room for unfulfilled legal responsibilities.