There is a lot missing here. What happened in the heated argument? Was what happened in the argument what was reported to the police?
If what happened in the argument was what was reported to the police this is not slander. Slander is where someone knowingly makes false statements of fact to tey and cause damages to you. If they reported they felt threatened by you in police report that is not slander as it is their opinion of the situation, but had they said OP said theyd kill me and you didnt say that it may be ruled slander. But context would matter a lot.
We had an argument about police and political matter. After we separated I went back over to try and smooth things over. They didn’t want to smooth things and tried to fight me. We was separated and told if they felt they needed to call police to call they didn’t call they waited a day to report it. The reason why they called a day later was because they was intoxicated.
My department head stated they was gonna keep me on till the outcome of the case aka keeping the matter in house. Someone leaked the information to the mayors office and in turn I was let go a month before my probation period ended.
The prosecution's job is to prosecute you, they arent going to bother with testimony that doesnt back up their side of the story. You say it never got physical then how did any of this go before a judge? There are details missing.
You are leaving some very important information out of the details here. You might be right in that if you qerent law enforcement it likely wouldnt have come to this point. But you are and that's why it's so much more important to make sure it is properly vetted and if you did pull a firearm you are held accountable. Your job is to carry around a firearm and inject yourself into situations where words are likely to be said you dont agree with, and dealing with intoxicated individuals.
We never got in a physical confrontation. I wasn’t drinking because I just left work and arrived late to the function. It was all words. When the incident was getting investigated no one went with the other party version of the story but went with mine saying I was trying to de escalate the situation. When went to court the prosecution never used any of the witnesses statements during preliminary just the other parties words.
It got in front of a judge due to the fact that I was a police officer and the DA has a thing for prosecuting police officers. He stated I pulled my duty fire arm on him which is impossible because it’s video showing me putting my firearm in my locker in the department locker room.
Your right I thought removing myself from the situation was good letting some time pass to for lack of better word apologize for our argument was taking the high road. Should of just ignored him.
So none of this is slander. You were involved in heated argument that became physical and were fired for that. You may not get charged for this but they are well within their rights to let you go as a result. From a leadership standpoint if two employees cannot hold their liquor, and when politics are brought up are not mature enough to either avoid the subject or remain calm it's a liability for them.
All the lawyers that I talked to and I don’t kno if they was being nice or what stated that of o wasn’t in law enforcement it would have never got this far and would have been tossed due to lack of evidence and the fact that witness state I never did what the other party was accusing me of.