Are you over 18 and not under a conservatorship? In that case, your adoptive mom does not control you or your actions. There's no record to "free" her from.
Write your will. Make sure your will spells out your wishes. Have a lawyer help in this process to make sure it's executed correctly; online will kits might not hold up if you do something wrong.
Make sure she is not joint on any bank accounts with you. If so, remove her. Revoke access to any accounts, and if you're concerned, change your password and ask to add a verbal password for over the phone.
Lock down your social media accounts to deny her access. Not legal, but it stops her from knowing about you or your activities.
If you find she's intrusive or threatening you, you can also look at a restraining order or equivalent. However, going no-contact may be your best bet.
You need to sign the forms in the presence of two witnesses who then sign it. You should give copies to the people you name as your agents, all your healthcare providers (doctor, dentist, pharmacist, acupuncturist, physical therapist, optometrist, etc.) and other appropriate people (employer, gym, place you volunteer at.).
The form everyone is mentioning is often called an Advance Directive. You can often find forms by searching for "name of state" "advance directive." Your doctor or health insurance companyymay also have forms. You name a primary and a backup person to serve as your healthcare agent if you are incapacitated. You want these to be people who understand your wishes, will carry them out, and are reasonably easy to contact.
There is also something else you may want to consider--what the law calls "disposition of remains." This is about what you want to happen to your body and what kind of funeral you want. In mist states, you can express your wishes and create a document naming a person to carry them out.
Forms for advance directives & disposition of remains are available online, but you want want to work with a probate or estate attorney to create what is called an estate plan.This includes Advance Directive, disposition of remains forms, and a will. Do it all at once and it will be coordinated to your wishes, as in "I don't want Mom involved in any of this.".