They already did that, the House of Lords only serves to knock back legislation for reassessment, they can't permanently block anything. If they could, fucking Brexit never would've happened...
Hmm, perhaps the House of Lords should have power restored to it… make it an actual check on the power of the Commons.
Maybe having all elements of society, the majority of the nation - commoners, and the holders of much of the wealth of the nation and a long view - the Lords, is a good idea?
It certainly is at odds with the view held by many that direct winner take all democracy is the only possible legitimate path forward. My take is that government should reflect the will, traditions, mores, and circumstances of its nation.
My gut tells me that Labour is simply trying to make a play for votes because the Lords really doesn’t have power anymore. Perhaps they want to make it something similar to the American Senate. Who knows. It all seems quite odd to me.
This is sort of what canada did. Not necessarily experts always, but "great" Canadians are offered positions in the Senate (functionally the same as the House of Lords in the UK) as we don't have nobility.
While there is value in having an unelected body that basically serves to moderate parliament, its current state is kind of busted. You can literally buy your way into it, or have peerage appointed by the ruling party, basically stacking it like the Americans did with their Supreme Court. Perhaps instead of Lords, they need experts in various fields. Economic, agricultural, medical, military, environmental, the things that the average MP probably isn't going to know all that much about.
It'd be interesting to have a legislative body consisting of people basically drafted at random from specific sectors of the economy and government.
"Alright lads, we've got a quota of six farmers, three teachers, five welders, and apparently this law from 1762 says we have to include a "nob thatcher" and a "pleacher." God alone knows what those are so it may be a long day.".
Heck, kicking the can down the road to avoid present discomfort is the order of the day for the US federal budget. Never mind that it only makes the problem worse.
On the one hand it can be maddening when some seemingly trivial or common sense legislation can’t be passed because someone has their panties in a twist. On the other, legislation has to be moderate enough to garner the support of the overwhelming majority before it came make it out of the chamber.
Of course that doesn't stop ruling parties from appointing people that lean in their direction, but for the most part senators seem to take their job as being the "House of Sober Second Thought" seriously and it isn't usually a partisan battlefield as much as a place for intellectuals to ponder and suggest revisions for legislation the house of commons passes.
I did read the article but it was slim on details, with a vague “details will be worked out in consultation” or something to that nature.
The US system isn’t quite winner take all as a result of the filibuster which basically requires most, but not all, legislation to have the support of 60 votes.
The US system was specifically designed to avoid direct poplar (populist) democracy. There is currently a movement to remake the system into a direct popular democracy. I think that if we took a few moments to meditate on how fickle public opinion can be, how uninformed and how often it is simply wrong that we will conclude that relying on direct popular democracy is not the best idea.
Heck, i recall reading about how public support of ongoing operations in WWII was a serious concern but that the various powers that be plowed ahead and tried to keep the public onboard. Dare we imagine if the allies had figured enough was enough and sued for peace with Nazi Germany or Imperial Japan?
Even now we are in that odd place with regards to Russia; most of us appreciate that Russia must be resoundingly and convincingly defeated. But, various world leaders are looking at polling numbers that suggest that maybe what the people want right now in this moment is a negotiated settlement. But that only kicks the can down the road a la reoccupation and remilitarization of the Ruhr, the occupation of “just” the Sudetenland. It is allowing the Manchuko puppet state, of the subjugation of Korea and so on as an appeasement to imperial Japan.