So to start, just to be clear, Lincoln didn't expel any Senators, for the reason that no president can expel Senators - it is a decision that can only be made by two-thirds of the Senate.
Now, the Senate link is a condensed version of information from Anne Butler and Wendy Wolff's United States Senate Election, Expulsion, and Censure Cases, 1793-1990, which is freely available online, so here is additional information.
The cases in particular involved Senators from five Southern states that by January 1861 had seceded from the Union: South Carolina, Mississippi, Florida, Alabama and Georgia. The Senators from these states (all Democrats) issued statements of withdrawal: Albert Brown of Mississippi on January 12, David Yulee and Stephen Mallory of Florida, Clement Clay and Benjamin Fitzpatrick of Alabama, and Jefferson Davis (yes, that Jefferson Davis) of Mississippi on January 21. They were followed in withdrawals by Alfred Iverson of Georgia on January 28, and John Slidell and Judah Benjamin of Louisiana on February 4. In addition to these formal withdrawals, there were informal ones: Robert Toombs of Georgia never officially notified the Senate, and James Hammond and James Chestnut of South Carolina told local newspapers.
On January 22, the Senate (including the Southern senators who had not yet withdrawn) met to debate just what happened. At issue may seem like a matter of semantics: did the senators withdraw or resign? However, the arguments behind the semantics were deadly serious - a withdrawal, as all the Southern senators in question claimed they were doing, implied that they were leaving the Senate because their states had seceded. Recognizing this implied that the state secessions were legitimate. Recognizing them as resigned would not recognize secession as legitimate, and would deem their seats as vacant, rather than nonexistent. The Senate debated, but could not come to an agreement, and tabled the discussion to March 14, after Lincoln's inauguration, and when the Senate gained a Republican majority in the new Thirty-Seventh Congress.
The new Senate turned down motions by Democratic members to recognize the withdrawals, or to note that the Senators in question "ceased to be members of the Senate", and instead decided to declare the seats of six Senators vacant: those of Brown, Davis, Mallory, Clay, Toombs, and Benjamin. Yulee, Fitzpatrick, Iverson, Hammond and Slidell weren't included because their terms had expired with the Thirty-Sixth Congress. Chesnut was dealt with in a case in July 1861 that we will turn to next.
This case came about because of the next round of state secessions. In March, Louis Wigfall of Texas notified the Senate that he understood that Texas had seceded, and that he was now a foreigner in the United States - but that he would remain in his office acting as Senator until he received official confirmation of secession. This ignited a debate in the Republican-majority Senate for expulsion of Wigfall, with Southern Democratic Senators echoing arguments made a month or two previous that it should be treated as a withdrawal due to secession, or at best to be treated as a vacant seat (as the earlier seats had been treated). The matter was conferred to the Senate Judiciary Committee, which did nothing.
Anyway, on July 10, Republican Daniel Clark of New Hampshire introduced a motion to expel the ten Senators in question, in effect for conspiracy against the United States by failing to appear in the Senate and perform their duties. Democrats James Bayard of Delaware and Milton Latham of California argued against expulsion, stating that it implied personal misconduct or moral turpitude, and that the Senators in question were acting on instructions of their state governments (remember this was when Senators were elected by state legislatures). Ultimately, the mood was militant, and the Senate voted the following day on expulsion, 32 to 10.
By July 1861, the Civil War was in full swing, and the matter was revisited. By now, the matter taken up was not just Wigfall, but the other Senators of now-Confederate states who had withdrawn: William Sebastian and Charles Mitchel of Arkansas, Thomas Clingman and Thomas Bragg of North Carolina, Chestnut of South Carolina, A.O.P. Nicholson of Tennessee, John Hemphill of Texas, and James Mason and Robert Hunter of Virginia. I should mention that the other Senator from Tennessee - future Vice President and President Andrew Johnson - was a staunch Unionist and stayed in his Senate seat until 1862, when he resigned to serve as Lincoln's Military Governor of Tennessee.
So: six Senators had their seats declared vacant in March 1861, five Senators had terms that expired in March, and another ten were expelled in July, with the lone Johnson keeping his seat. None of this was specifically because of Lincoln's electoral victory, but because of state declarations of secession - the senators in question felt that this terminated their states' participation in the Union, and all withdrew. In the case of the ten expelled, the expulsions were pro forma, and largely meant as a gesture against the Senators in question as the war was already well under way.
The next senator who concerns us is John Breckinridge, a former Vice President, 1860 Presidential candidate for the Southern Democrats, and a sitting Senator from Kentucky. Breckinridge worked for a peaceful resolution of the secession crisis, and urged Kentucky to take a neutral position in the conflict. When the Kentucky legislature voted in September 1861 to side with the Union, he departed the state for Tennessee - and was appointed a Brigadier General by Jefferson Davis. He sent a letter of resignation to the Senate in October, but the Senate, after confirming that he was indeed already serving in the Confederate military, promptly voted to expel him 36 to 0. A Unionist, Garrett Davis, was elected to the seat in December.
Next up were Waldo Johnson and Trusten Polk of Missouri, who had vocally supported secessionists in their state. Republicans called for their immediate expulsion, while Democrats wanted procedures followed for precedent's sake. Neither Senator answered the charges or even claimed his seat. Johnson was already serving as a Confederate officer, and Polk was writing to fellow Missouri politicians urging for secession (he also later joined the Confederate military). Both were reported to have crossed into Confederate territory. On January 10, 1862 Johnson was expelled by a 35-0 vote, and Polk by a 36-0 vote.
The fourth Senator in this wave to be expelled was Jesse Bright of Indiana, the senior-most Democrat in the Senate. His case involved a Texas arms merchant, Thomas Lincoln, who was captured trying to cross into Confederate territory shortly after the Battle of Bull Run. In his possession was a letter of introduction to Jefferson Davis from Bright ("He visits your capital to dispose of what he regards a great improvement of fire-arms."). Bright had for years argued against abolitionists, and had been publicly skeptical of a military settlement to the war. This letter was the final straw and led to expulsion proceedings. Bright defended himself, calming he was Thomas Lincoln's attorney, had no recollection of the specifics of the letter, and was just using general polite formalities. The Judiciary Committee did not recommend expulsion, but continued debate on the Senate floor ultimately led to expulsion by a 32-14 vote on February 5, 1862. Two more Senators, Benjamin Stark of Oregon and Lazarus Powell of Kentucky, faced expulsion votes in 1862 for pro-secessionist remarks, but kept their seats.
Is there, then, any other relevant congressional history, either house or senate, that particularly takes action for undermining an election, refusal to recognize election results, attempts to usurp power irregardless of election results, etc.?
Thanks again, btw, to you and the other responder. I’m reading articles in the news today and feeling much more prepared to evaluate them for whether they are correct, or shite.
Oh you’re right. My title implies it was Lincoln, himself, that did the actions and that’s not right. Your answer is very much appreciated and I’ll scope out the resource you referenced.