Something I've been wanting to do for a while is start semi-recurring collection of what I call "The real questions." These are questions that get at amusingly specific or abnormal topics, rather than the typical kind of general history question. Stuff that when I see it asked, it makes me say "Finally, someone is asking the real questions!".
And thus we come to a close for another week. Keep it classy out there reddit, and I’ll see you next Sunday!
This isn't a super formalized or methodological process at the moment, so I don't have a big collection, but this week I want to shout out /u/platypuskeeper for their question "" on the Friday Free-for-All. This is more of a discussion then a question, so I don't think it'll be representative of future entrants, but it's the one that caught my eye from this week.
I knew I’d seen all three of those threads before and I distinctly remembered them all being over at least a week old (especially the Louis XIV wig question - that was like a year ago) and I can’t believe how annoyed I got before I understood your point.
Welcome back to another brilliant edition of the Sunday Digest Hundreds of fantastic history threads and compiled and kept in one easy to find place. Have a browse through, enjoy the amazing writing, and don’t forget to thank the authors.
Thank you for such kindness towards my humble contribution to this wonderful place online that is Ask Historians.
/u/CiderDrinker and /u/Dkrox hauled away with [Is It True That Pirate Ships During the Golden Age of Piracy Were Run Democratically?
And also did [Did the atomic bombs make Japan surrender or did the Soviet invasion of Manchuria did in WW2?
Spare a thought for the interesting yet overlooked post that still hope for an expert’s answer. Perhaps they’ll catch someone’s eye, or inspire some new fascinating questions.
/u/JJVMT asked [The states of Georgia, Maryland, New York, North and South Carolina, and Virginia are all named after British royals. Why weren't these names changed following American independence? Was there any public debate about whether to keep or change them? [Second attempt].