The Palestinians who don't have Israeli citizenship go figure aren't Israelis. That doesn't make Israel's actions good, but it sure as shit doesn't make it Apartheid either.
This allowed the apartheid government to claim many African South Africans were not, in fact, citizens.
Many black citizens were stripped of south african citizenshio during apartheid, with their citizenships transferred to non internstionally recognised 'Bantustans' in formerly South African areas. This was done through the Bantu Homelands Citizenship Act of 1970.
Interestingly enough, Jordan literally stripped them of citizenship, and has had some of the largest Palestinian refugee camps around for decades, and yet I've never heard anyone accuse them of apartheid..
Israel didn't strip the Palestinians of citizenship (though I believe they just passed a law allowing them to do so for families of attackers which is an unsettling development).
The official definition for Apartheid doesn't include anything about a requirement of people having to be from the same nation. In fact nationality is listed amongst the possible reasons for discrimination.
The definition of the people targeted mentions "racial group". Which at first sounds like race only, but if you look online for definitions in regards to law it'll tell you this instead:
This comes from British law and is also used in international law as far as I'm aware. i.e. the definition for racial discrimination uses this definition.
Though what's important to note is that outside of laws you can create a lot of discrimination without having to outright state it.
So right from the start, it's very clear that intention matters. The following acts are all to be understood within the context of this definition. So while Israel certainly is guilty of several of the aforementioned policies and practices, their purpose is vitally important in deciding whether or not they constitute a crime of apartheid.
Even if we take that to be valid in reference to the UN convention, the argument falls flat on its face when you realize that Israeli citizens of Palestinian origin do not face the same treatment as non-citizens. Nor do Palestinian residents in Jerusalem, who actually have municipal voting rights, and are for all intents and purposes treated similarly to non-citizen residents in any other country. If Israel's goal was to "establish and maintain domination" of Jews over Palestinians, they wouldn't have a full 20% of their population be of Arab descent. Nor would they have Arabs and Palestinian supporters within their government. Yet both those are true.
And look at West Bank. From water supply, to road access, to economic restrictions, to building permits, etc. The oppression people are facing there is huge! Not to mention the discrimination in the judicial system.
I'm not going to argue that Israel treats Palestinians decently or that they don't oppress them. But I am going to argue that Apartheid is a very strong term that should not be bandied about so carelessly to any nation that happens to be viewed as an oppressor. Especially not when there are other nations far more deserving of the accusation that somehow don't have the UN and the western world's attention in that regard.
With that in mind, it's quite clear that the deciding factor in Israel's treatment is not national origin but actually current national residence. The specific nation in question being one that is at least on paper at war with Israel, and is currently under military occupation and frequently belligerent (and in fact quite literally became a nation while already under said occupation).
Israel specifically stated that they want to maintain a Jewish majority. It was one of the points raised against accepting Palestinian refugees as there would be too many of Arab descent in Israel.
As for apartheid being a too strong a word for the situation in Israel? Desmond Tutu lived under the Apartheid of South Afrika and was one of the most prominent activists against Apartheid. He even got a Nobel Peace Price for his efforts. If someone who suffered under Apartheid and fought against it says what's happening in Israel is Apartheid, then I don't see why I can't say the same.
Can you provide an example of a right that a Jewish Israeli has that an Arab or any other race Israeli doesn't? Thats the basic definition of the term you are throwing around so surely you can provide one example?
A good example is zoning. A community needs to fund things like education and public transportation. Such services are essential for communities and good services can cause them to prosper, while bad ones can lead to poverty. So when Israel did zoning Jewish communities got the lucrative areas, while Arab communities got the poor ones. This is one of the reason as to why there is such a huge gab between Arab and Jewish communities.
I don't know what this is, but it's a right that's exclusive to the Jewish Israelis according to their own law.
Another example is the justice system. Once in a court Arab Israelis are more likely to get convicted and more likely to face harsher sentences than Jewish Israelis.
It gets worse: Arabs are 20% of the population of Israel, but are 40% of the prison population. However, programs for rehabilitation are focused on the majority population of Israel and not on who is actually in prison. This means on an individual basis Jewish Israelis in prison will see more money spend on their rehabilitation than Arab Israelis!
Though the real focus for Apartheid accusations is on West Bank/Gaza. The international law for Apartheid does not require it to be happening in the country of the oppressor, nor does it require the population of the oppressed to be that of the oppressor. Hence Apartheid can apply to territory under occupation.
To give a few examples of those who say that Israel is Apartheid: Desmond Tutu grew up under Apartheid and was one of the biggest Activists against Apartheid. He got a Nobel Peace price for his fight against Apartheid. From his point of view what's happening in Israel is Apartheid. Both Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International also said that and wrote a report about this recently.
The thing about Apartheid in Israel is that it's not just one thing. It's a whole plethora of discriminatory things that finally combine together into a system of Apartheid. So I can list one example and another example and another example, but unless I write a whole essay it'll not be enough to proof Apartheid.
Luckily for us Amnesty International just recently published their . If you're interested in the reasoning behind these accusations then feel free to read it, but be warned as it's very long.
And when you look at West Bank you'll see a whole plethora of stuff. Road access, water access, building permits, economic restrictions, etc. There are towns with over 50% unemployment.
Whether it's Israel or Palestine, both sides are doing a lot of awful stuff. That's the reality. Don't try to justify one sides crimes by saying the other side is worse.
So give an example of something a Jewish Israeli can do that an Arab Israeli can't? They can vote, hold office, go to school, university, work as doctors, lawyers, open businesses, buy houses...What is one thing that an Arab Israeli can't do that a Jew can?
You either don't know the definition of apartheid or you are being purposely disingenuous because you know that you are making up lies.
Have you ever been in the position where you're under constant oppression, with no hope for the future and living under terror?
Of course you can argue that Israel is worse because they cause much more suffering due to being in the stronger position in this conflict.
But this isn't a competition. Just cause one side does something bad doesn't mean that the other side is good. Just because one side is worse in one aspect doesn't mean it justifies the other side doing bad things.