Yes. The law doesn't prevent them from disclosing. The law also doesn't require that they disclose.
Do you actually have shares in the company? Is it formed as a corporation or as an LLC? In what state?
That could be true. More importantly it really doesn't matter if it's true. She's not required to tell you.
Now, if it's an LLC, that's a different matter. But, at minimum, they should allow you to review the Operating Agreement (because, as a member, you would have agreed to be bound by it.) (But, if you have VC investment, then it's almost certainly NOT an LLC.).
It may be that there's something sketchy going on. But, it could \easily\ also be that your CFO doesn't know the rules, doesn't want to have to call up your lawyers to find out the rules, and was making a guess in order just to put you off.
They're offering you a stake but not letting you understand what portion of total ownership that stake represents? That would make it pretty hard to assess the value. If they're giving you a bonus and not telling you what the bonus is worth, that may be fine. If you're weighing whether to stay in comparison to another offer, I wouldn't put much weight in what I was unable to value.
It's a company that I already work for and accepted the offer for due to the salary increase and a few other reasons.
If you have VC funding, then the company is most likely a Delaware corporation. (VCs don't invest in LLCs because they don't want the company's tax situation affecting the taxes of all their partners.) And, VCs strongly prefer to invest in Delaware corporations.
Presuming that it's a Delaware corporation, and that you have actual shares (not options), the CFO is full of crap.
First of all, you can get a copy of the company's Certificate of Incorporation from the Delaware Secretary of State for a small fee. That will tell you how many shares are authorized. (You want to look at the number of authorized common shares and ignore the preferred shares). That authorization can include shares that are not issued. But, if they have VC investment, it's likely that the only not issues shares are reserved for issuance under its stock plan. So, that number will give you a pretty good idea.
Note, though, that your percentage is only going to go down over time as additional shares are issued.
Secondly, as a stockholder, you have the right to examine the books and records of the company, including its stock records under Section 220 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Thirdly, a list of stockholders has to be made available to ALL stockholders at least 10 days before any meeting of stockholders, and they're supposed to have one of those every year. That's section 219 of the DGCL.
In both cases, you get actual stock. with the RSA, you get stock immediately. With an RSU, you get it as it vests. So, I suspect you have an RSU. But, those two terms are a bit ambiguous and what your company calls a restricted stock award may be what everybody else calls a restricted stock unit. (That would be uncommon, but I've seen it happen.).
If you have an RSU, then you do not actually own any stock at the moment, but will in 3 weeks. At that point, you can demand to see the stock ledger. Of course, that doesn't mean they can't fire you.