Unfortunately, we can not know if he is entitled to any portion of the estate. This is a highly complex and fact-specific matter and depends on everything from the language and structure of the trust, titled property, retirement or other financial accounts, the language of the will, along with plenty of other relevant facts.
The only thing we can suggest is to hire an estate attorney to represent your own interests if the executor is not abiding the terms of the will.
He would be entitled to a reasonable fee for executing the estate though. This cost comes out of the estate.
The fee for executing the cost is valid and will definitely reimburse him for that. The main issue is, he withdrew money from 2 bank accounts that do not have beneficiaries. He is negotiating with us asking for one of those bank accounts because he feels its unfair that he gets nothing. The lawyer told him straight to his face that we could sue him and technically ask him for double the amount if he didn't comply with the trust. He doesn't believe the lawyer thus why we had to find a new lawyer. I will definitely speak with my siblings and consider hiring a lawyer as we would rather use my mom's hard working money on a lawyer then giving it to him.
It is wise to consult your own attorney because if I understand what you're explaining right, this one represents the estate and your stepfather as executor. This isn't the same as representing your interest, even if that seems contrary to reason. An attorney works for who hires them and not other parties, even if those parties interest are aligned with following the law. Hiring your own attorney to represent your interest doesn't change who the estate attorney is; they'd communicate with the estate attorney that you and your sibling are prepared to take adverse action if the stepfather does not comply with the estate.
In general, spouses in California are entitled to 50%, but that’s 50% of assets acquired during the marriage, not 50% of all assets. But you have a lawyer, and they’ll be able to answer much better about your specific situation than internet strangers, so listen to your lawyer. In the meantime, only communicate about this with your stepdad through your lawyer.
His main leverage is that he is the executor of / trustee of the relevant property, and until he is removed from that position, he can spend those assets down to zero, which will make it difficult to get them back. The sooner you act (hire a lawyer & file a suit to remove him as trustee/executor), the less time he will have to misappropriate the assets.