The trustee is allowed to make payments for managing the assets of the trust, but it has to be in good faith. If the trust has physical property like rental houses, the trustee could use the trust money to repair a leaky roof or whatever.
But the trustee, can't just take money out to treat themselves to a fancy dinner or go on vacation unless they are also the beneficiary of the trust and the trust documents allow for that.
In practice, who is going to make a complaint against the trustee if they mismanage the account? The beneficiary (you). So you'll have to be able to prove that they misused funds, then you could file a suit to make them reimburse the trust for what they took. You'd have to weigh whether that's worth it or not depending on the amounts and your relationship with this uncle.
The uncle can't alter the will legally, but again, in practice, I've been present when people with dementia have signed documents and notaries have ignored ethics and accepted and stamped them. So an unethical person could get a different will signed and notarized and proving that a signed/notarized will is invalid would be near impossible.
At this point, I’m not looking for an early payout or anything like that- I just want to see what this account, specifically for me, looks like on paper. He admitted the account exists- am I out of my lane to ask to see what it looks like, prior to my grandfathers passing?
There's some good info in this list about when the trustee MUST provide the information to you as the beneficiary.
A decent competent trustee should be able to give you a copy of the trust document, and the opening and most recent set of account statements. And should be able to do it within a week or so of your request. Every single transaction should have a valid reason.
Should I just be persistent at this point? Maybe not legally, but I kind of think of myself as my father’s surrogate. If he were still alive, he would be asking to see this info, too, I imagine.
Gotcha. I'd ask one more time and be very direct that you want to know what's in it so you can plan ahead. If you're given the runaround again, you can follow these steps:
“This isn't something that is high on my priorities right now” -- just about the worst possible excuse.
But once he does that, he's within his rights to tell you stop pestering him. New York, for example, allows you to examine the trust's books every month. Most states aren't so generous, and provide for only annual statements (or by court order).