People are allowed to cook. Your complaint that the smell distracts you from programming is nothing that any court will recognize as a violation of an ordinary lease.
Yeah, I’m not surprised that they aren’t pressing charges against him for poking you. Which is what happened. He didn’t “beat your head.” He poked you.
Let me be nice. I can't understand this. In the post, I said there is a rule of simple cooking. Why do people still argue here and say he can cook as much as he can?
They are allowed to cook, but not for cooking from 1 pm to 7 pm with the slow cooker. The rule said "simple cooking", which means cook simply.
edit: And this was stated in the lease if I remember correctly. I explained the simple cooking in the post. This rule applied to me and I changed my cooking style because of the complaint by another housemate with this rule. It is a rule!
In short, very little about your post makes any sense. In my view, you have no legal remedies available to you.
And even it is me, the rule is still applied by other housemates, so it is the same as to him. For example, I am not allowed to cook curry. I was stopped doing it in the middle of doing it before. Thus, I applied that rule with the body camera.
I wore a body camera on that day. It showed he really did that to me. I also got a doctor's medical report for this. It said, "post-traumatic- brain"(I can't remember correctly). Does this still give me no legal remedies?
Yes. So if they play music with a large music box in the living for hours, so I unplug the music box for the "rule also on the lease". And now he hit me in my forehead and ended up in hospital for a pain killer, and the doctor told me to take a couple of days off, which is a post-traumatic brain. Isn't this a battery?
I wore a body camera on that day. It showed he really did that to me. I also got a doctor's medical report for this. It said, "post-traumatic- brain"(I can't remember correctly). Does this still give me no legal remedies?
Or you still say I was at fault, which I have already complained to the landlord a couple of times already? The police said it was my fault.