Would I file with the police in the area it occurred? I’ve since moved out of state and this all happened a few years ago, would it still be accepted? He was so mentally abusives had me convinced I couldn’t do a thing without getting myself in trouble too.
Well your ex committed fraud. So the first step is making a police report. After that, you should be able to supply that to your creditors. If they can’t supply sufficient proof that it was actually you (and not your ex) that signed the documents, you should be able to demand they remove you from the debts. I’ll caution you though; if you had ANY knowledge of these loans, it’s better to fess up than to file a false police report.
The one with the bank, he originally had his mom on and they went together and removed her and added me. I had no idea about that until they started calling my work and the lady was nice enough to tell me that info.
he could have needed her sign-off to change the named parties in the loan if she was on it herself. possible they both committed fraud but either way he definitely did, so you can't be held liable for them and the police report should absolve you from any reasonable creditor this was pulled on once shown to them.
needless to say his work has probably done significant damage to your credit that you will want to mitigate once you have the police report. the missed payments, repossession, and appearing overleveraged on paper will drastically reduce your ability to do anything that checks your credit, including even a number of jobs, until fixed. the good news is, for the same reason you can't be held liable and with the same evidence, you can dispute the damage he did to your credit report.
you want to put freezes on your credit with the credit bureaus. that way, it's a lot less likely anyone else can use your credit. credit karma or any of the other services can check your credit reports for free, you'll get notified when new accounts are open.
go through the reports to see if he opened anything else, and keep checking to make sure he or anyone else doesn't from now on. if anything pops up, make sure it's reported to the police and follow the same process as for these.
As already stated; freeze your credit, and check it for any other loans. Remember; you only know about the loans as they've being defaulted on. There may be others that just haven't gone to that stage yet.