So he's been sitting on this for almost SEVEN years. If there is a bench warrant, he absolutely should consult an attorney, who'll advise him on his next steps. This is lawyer territory.
Too bad, it may follow him all the way to Delaware. And the legal ramifications could be worse. He needs a lawyer for this.
Um.... Don't you see the 🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩🚩 on this? I'm assuming that you're well aware of said reason. Hate to break it to you, but he's gonna need to resolve this BEFORE changing his name, as it will involve paperwork, court filings/attendance, a valid reason, and requirements that much be met, which may involve a background check at some point.
And you should rethink marrying a guy who would attempt to change him name to evade a bench warrant.
He's not going to be successful and at some point during the name changing process, there will be a background check and this bench warrant WILL pop up.
That's very kind of you but your fiance is a grown ass man and there's little you can do on his behalf. If you do want to help, you can call the in the county that issued the warrant, explain the situation and ask for a referral. But he should be the one that speaks to the attorney directly. I'm going to slightly amend my earlier advice and suggest that he focus on dealing with the bench warrant in MD and put the name change in DE on the back burner.
It's about 7 years too late for any of that, and even then a lawyer would have been advisable to resolve the bench warrant.
Edit: Just to add, if your bf still drives and he's pulled over, the cops will likely check for any open warrants and if there is one, he will be arrested. It happened to one of my friends over an unpaid parking ticket.
You're welcome and fair enough. But in all seriousness, please please please advise your fiance to hire a lawyer and deal with this. He's not gonna be able to run away from this forever, and this is going to get in the way of a LOT of your plans if not addressed quickly.
Your fiance probably won't be granted a name change in the first place due to the pending criminal charges that he's actively trying to avoid. You can ask a DE lawyer for advice about the name change and a MD lawyer for help dealing with the bench warrant.