I'm not super good at on the fly academic writing, but I'll try to answer this as best I can, mostly because I am PASSIONATE about disproving the German economic 'miracle' that Neo-Nazi apologists cemented into the public opinion. So, be patient with me, and hopefully someone with more flowery writing can give you a better answer later .
I point to you the Hossbach memorandum to say: they were not able to build such an army, but they did so anyway. The Hossbach Conference was a meeting between Hitler and some of the top dogs in the military establishment to determine how in God's name Germany was gonna get out of the mess they created for themselves. Rearmanent had essentially sidelined the civilian economy to shove virtually everything into building a huge army. It worked fantastically, but as the 1940s loomed the Nazi Reich was in danger of imminent economic collapse.
Since disarming the military was not an option, Hitler instead outlined a plan to seize industry and arable land in the east, the Lebensraum you're familiar with, to use it to stabilize and hopefully boon Germany's economic trajectory. All present at the Hossbach Conference (including Hitler!) expressed doubts as to the viability of this adventure east, something I think should be shouted from the rooftops: the Nazi leadership thrust their nation into a war they thought they'd lose because they were fundamentally incompetent at governance. This 'efficient Nazi' myth needs to die. Hopefully I'm not getting preachy or moralistic here, I just want to stress how absurd this whole situation was.
Now, this economic weakness was no good for the Nazi Party. Nazi Germany was desperate to cement itself as the 'law and order' government, returning normalcy to a country wracked by revolutionary and economic chaos. They utterly failed to recover the economic situation beyond the general bounce back Germany had experienced since 1933ish, before the Nazi seizure of power. So, they had to divert attention away from how weak the economic structure was. Employing as many people as possible in the war effort was a good start, since less unemployed = less awareness of just how bad the civilian economy is, but it didn't really cover up that the funds simply weren't there.
They focused on community building exercises that masked the depressed economy. German wages never recovered to their pre-depression heights, so what did the Nazis do? Well, the Nazi-run labor union, the German Labor Front, launched a 'Strenh Through Joy' program, offering Germans free vacations resorts like Prora or on custom built cruiseships like the Wilhelm Gustolf. The Volkswagen was launched for this purpose too; Germans paid an affordable amount for a brand new car Sound too good to be true? It was All the money went to the military and no one ever got a Volkswagen. Sorry suckers.
Hi there! Please keep in mind that Youtube videos are not appropriate sources for this subreddit, especially those by pop historians. Do you have any more reliable sources you can provide?
I'll give you a solid example of how wacky the Nazi war economy was. Hjalamar Schacht, President of the Reichsbank the brains behind the German 'economic miracle' (which was largely a Nazi myth, but Schacht did great work), devised MEFO bills, which are a great example of this fraud. The Versailles treaty stipulated Germany was barred from a significant investment in war materials. Even if they were allowed, they simply did not have the money in reserve to afford it.
Propaganda blasted that the Nazi order was granting the people luxury and prosperity and pointed to these programs as proof. Please ignore that you still cannot afford groceries. After all, Goering needs the state funds to buy morphine and pet tigers.
So...if there was no solid economic foundation, how did Nazi Germany pay for massive rearmament? Conquest, fraud and neglect!
As to why those other countries couldn't match them: they could, and did. Mobilization began as Nazi's poked the Anglo-French bear repeatedly, but kicked into high-gear after the Munich Conference and subsequent invasion of Czechoslovakia, when it became clear Hitler was insatiable.
To solve this, Schacht set up a shell organization that printed 'MEFO Bills', and these essentially let the Nazi government pay for arms production without leaving a paper trail. These were, basically 'IOUs' that the government handed to war producers, who could later exchange these for currency. In case this sounds like an unsustainable scheme... you're right. All it was was a way for Germany to run a massive deficit without getting caught red-handed they were spending all their money on war materials. This money needed paid back, Germany never significantly invested in civilian industry, the only way to pay it back was to seize foreign capital. So, war.
So, the war was launched when it happened, in the East and West both, as sort of pre-emptive strikes to destroy Germany's enemies while they were still weak enough to be competitive. This didn't work out, but for all the criticism Hitler gets for invading the West and Russia, it really was the only shot he had for Germany to defeat her neighbors before they grew too powerful. Still, we know today he never really had a chance to beat all three European great powers, and throwing the USA into the mix only sealed his fate extra...seally.
You're right that mobilization was not as forced as Germany's, but this is due to the fact France and Britain were shellshocked democratic societies trying to avoid a second war; they couldn't lie and hide mobilization like the Nazi dictatorship, and their government did not thirst for warfare like Hitler did.
Schacht, mind you, was fired in 1939 because he was deeply opposed to how badly rearmanent was destabilizing the economy. Probably one of the brightest minds to ever work in the Nazi government, and he gets sacked and replaced by a total crank, Walther Funk, because he realized Nazi policy was utterly unsustainable.
Jewish businesses were ransacked and captured industry in Czechoslovakia would help re-arm Germany too, but for the most part the German war and civilian economy was incredibly weak, disorganized, and inefficient. Nazi Germany never really streamlined its war production the way the US and USSR would, and in fact did not even engage in total mobilization of the war economy (out of fear that the house of cards would come tumbling down and a repeat of November 1918 would occur) until 1943...after Stalingrad. Yikes.
Probably, he was a Nazi at the least. Interestingly this document seems to imply that he was in favor of aggressive warfare, just not in 1939, which is odd cause from what I'd read it seemed he was more a pacifist. I might be wrong about the nuances of Schacht's worldview, I'll have to do more digging about him.
You sort of gloss over a significant error in OP's understanding of the Nazi German economy. u/ImgLoop1993 wrote.
Hi, I didn't intend to use this as a source and it's not where I sourced my answer from. I just posted it cause I saw it a few days ago and thought it was a pretty fantastic overview. I can remove it if you need me to.