You have more than enough evidence to sue them. The rest of the stuff isn't relevant and is unnecessary to bring up in your case (how much they make, vacations, dogs, surgery, nonessentials). Just focus on the money they owe you. (But for the future, downpayments can almost never be personal loans, that defeats the purpose.).
This is pretty straightforward. You can leave out 95% of the other stuff, that's just going to waste the court's time probably.
My argument was that if I’m already going through the trouble of loaning them $5000 to get their house, why would I not sign that form and have the whole thing fall though?
They had to have a form given to the mortgage lender that the $5000 was a “gift” and forged my signature to do so since they were closing literally the next day and I wasn’t able to meet them to sign it. I didn’t think it would be an issue since I had the post dated checks. Would that be an issue?
Do you think it would help the case to detail their spending habits and them referring to their salary? I have that all as text hi message screenshots at the end of the pdf to explain why I’m going through small claims and not giving them a 5th chance to repay and instead going straight for wage garnishment.
I’m completely unfamiliar to small claims but it seems they don’t want to hear all the extra drama and whining and just who has the legal right or wrong.
Absent a written agreement (and a cancelled check for the full amount), you really end up trying to piece things together for the court - so-called parol evidence (things said and done that evidence an agreement). And yes, text messages are probably enough.
Perfect, that’s more or less what the other commenter said. Just the financial aspects of the loan, and save the other stuff in case they try to argue that it was a gift, they can’t pay, etc.
Given that they have shown no willingness to now repay, ask for the remaining balance plus a modest amount of interest (5-10%). The request for interest is probably going to be rejected because you don’t have proof of agreement… but if given the chance, argue to the Judge that it’s not reasonable to have an unlimited amount of time to repay the debt and that they’ve demonstrated an unwillingness to fulfill their obligation, so you’re now asking for compounding interest to encourage timely payment.
It’s possible the judge is simply going to enforce the payment schedule… you can ask the court if they act as an intermediary so that there’s documentation if they continue to miss payments.
I just don’t want to have them get away with borrowing money under false pretense with no intention of repayment because I’m sure they’ll try it on someone else in the future.
Oh, and it’s also possible that the other party won’t even show. Make sure you ask for a declaratory judgment and then an enforcement order for a garnishment of wages, as they’ve proven incapable of repayment on their own (this is going to really put a nail in the coffin of your friendship). If granted, the court notified your friend’s employer of the garnishment and a certain portion of their paycheck will be made directly to you.
I have all of that saved in a document chronologically with time stamps. Luckily I didn’t delete anything! Including Venmo transactions for the amounts they did pay and the conversations regarding the original $250/paycheck and the forbearances / reworked agreements.
In the case of the court acting as an intermediary for the payments of the original agreement, Would they then pay the court and then I would receive disbursements from the court?
That makes it a lot more simple as to what evidence I should present to the judge. I’d be okay with the original agreement, or hell even the $100/ paycheck that I dropped it down to at the end.
Sounds good, thanks for the tips! I was not sure how much “reasoning” or backstory judges look for rather than straight up what is legally right or wrong when determining a judgement. I’ll present just the facts of the financial aspects and leave the rest in case it does come up.
Take the time to print out the FULL text chain - screenshots, not a transcription. In court, you’ll present your evidence: here’s proof of the debt (every time we discussed it and their repayment plan), here’s proof of the current balance, and here’s proof of the repayment plan I offered and they agreed to, but then haven’t lived up to. Here also is proof of them noting the other things they’ve purchased, showing that they have the capacity to repay.
Yeah, contracts like this are pretty simple. But when you don’t have a specific agreement, you just need other evidence to prove there was an agreement. And while you didn’t have one to start, the text message history created the evidence over time: what was borrowed and the repayment schedule.
Fight for the original repayment schedule. The judge might ask or say that it should be less based on the texting history… just reply that these were offers from you that the debtor never accepted (they still didn’t pay)… so your original plan should be the applicable one.
Yes, if the court is the intermediary (and I’m not sure if Wisconsin does this for small claims actions - you can ask the Clerk when you file), they receive payment from the debtor and pass it to you.