In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
All that time and the Jan 6th Committee had put more effort into their investigation than every single federal agency combined.
It was pretty awesome walking around the Capitol last month and seeing monuments to Grant and Lincoln as opposed to the Confederate traitor statues we have in the South.
Matter of national security and all that, plus you can't commit war crimes if you're going to be held liable for it.
FBI: Did fuck all and stuck their heads up their assholes instead of taking the Jan 6th threats seriously.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
DoJ: But they were conservatives Do we really have to do anything? Fine, but I'm taking every scenic route and not doing fuck all if they go to judge they're not supposed to be able to in order to fuck it up.
Capitol Police: Did fuck all until they got rocked, leaving their people out numbered and getting beaten into a pulp.
DHS: Probably watched the Jan 6th riot like it was the super bowl & cheered them all. Too busy making illegal arrests in unmarked vehicles on the west coast.
Garland is a joke & at this point, hardly different than a traitor. The fact that the DoJ was caught off guard by the Jan 6th committee proves Garland wasn't doing a single fucking thing about any of it. Only thing Garland did quickly was get it out of his own hands.
A DoJ headed by a fellow conservative? LMAO! Garland won't do shit, that's for sure. Our only hope is the special counsel actually does something without Garland standing in the way.
Fuck Biden for appointing a conservative. Save us all time and just give them all pardons if you're going to do some stupid shit like trust a conservative to enforce the law on his own.