It would be better if they required recordings for the lectures to ensure they are still able to „attend“ when healthier (which would be good for everyone for any reason) otherwise you‘ll see a sharp drop in grades. Trying to make the world less sexist which is great but this solution isn’t plausible without a replacement for the missing days.
That’s a super minority of people who have cramps bad enough to disrupt their life, so I guess it’s good they’re getting help, but in general I don’t see this new time off being used much.
Here is just one study confirming that 1 in 4 women experience period pain distressing enough for medication and disruption of everyday activities. There are loads more. I can send you plenty if interested. I’m guessing there would have to be if countries (spain) and universities are considering monthly menstrual days. Are you a male? If so please include a bit more research before assuming your opinion on the bodily functions and experience of women has any merit. And if you are female? You’re lucky.
First of all, no. This is a survey from 400 students a single school, in a single country, and it doesn’t account for different types of cramps and the different causes such as recent medical procedures, diseases or other conditions. It’s also a survey based on the past which means there’s recall bias. If you’re other sources are similar I’m uninterested.
So you’re one in four number is on the very high end which makes sense because of the small sample size and the flaws in the methodology of the survey.
Is that enough or should I try to find a survey of a couple hundred women (1/5 of which didn’t even respond) to say they had no or only minor period pains?
So like I said, people who have responsibilities specifically in this case work or school, will underreport severe pain as they don’t want to miss work, which also plays into the psychological factors of period pains in that these women may actually have less severe pain as they can’t afford to miss work. (Btw your surveys definition of absenteeism is missing school or social events, which should not be included together as a person is way more willing to miss one than the other).
And as I hinted in my original comment this is not a totally insignificant figure, I’m glad the option for extra days off is there if it’s needed but the extra days off are going to be used by such a minority why not just add days for everybody just in case something happens?
I mean I know you don’t have any concept of studies and how they work and your just clicking on one, reading the abstract and/or conclusion pulling the first couple numbers and linking it but like the sample size and methodology in which the study or in your case survey was created actually matter.
And by the way, you keep saying things along the lines of “who am I to say” “let women decide” yada yada yada, I’m not arguing my opinion on menstrual cramps, I don’t give a damn about anecdotal evidence, I’m using data from an intergovernmental organization which specializes in health, medicine and biology, you’re not telling me I’m wrong, you’re telling me the fucking World Health a organization is wrong and to me that’s an absolutely outlandish claim you’re making.
The fact that you are arguing about womens health and experiences pertaining when you are clearly an adolescent male is laughable. Stick with your dads fire arms.
If you had pain at rating Of 5.5 I bet you would want to stay home too. Who are you to judge how painful pain should be to stay home? Give me a break dude. I’ll link more of you need me too. Or better yet? Why don’t you ask some real live women about how productive their work days are when having cramps. Regardless of whether they are “severe”.
Title confused me. Had to read the description. At first I thought "menstrual leaves" was referring to some kind of new biodegradable pad made of leaves.
Yes, 80% of women experience period pain. Pain and “pain so bad I have to lay home in bed and use a sick day to miss school/work” are not the same thing.