The idea that Columbus was a lone genius stubbornly striving for truth against a world insisting he was wrong about the shape of the globe is an idea which stems from Enlightenment era conceptions about the so called "Dark Ages", a vision of the medieval period in which the knowledge of the ancient Greeks was lost to mankind, and instead human progress was severely curtailed by the superstitious and backwards Catholic Church. This is bunk on a number of levels. Our , and In brief, the reality is that he was the one who was wrong, and everyone else was right, and he only 'succeeded' by sheer dumb luck that there happened to be an unknown continent for him to run into. People thought he was an idiot because they thought he was going to have to sail to Asia through the Atlantic and the Pacific as if the Americas didn't exist. That is a long journey and he never would have made it.
Anyways though, that is digressing a little. To get back on track, as I said, this idea of Columbus being the lone beacon of truth is grounded in the Enlightenment view of the middle ages, and while it doesn't seem entirely clear that he was the absolute first person to propose it, it is generally agreed that Washinon Irving's 1828 "The Life and Voyages of Christopher Columbus" was the book that pushed the idea into the popular mindset. Irving's biography was a smash hit, and he was given numerous awards in recognition of the work, most notably in the circumstances membership in the Real Academia de la Historia.
The work itself is remembered for painting a stirring - and completely fictional - picture of Columbus pleading his case to Ferdinand and Isabella in the face of obstinate resistance from the clergy, although in truth, Irving didn't make quite the absolute image that was remembered from it, as the passage in full reads:
As implied by the passage, Irving does present some objectors lampooning the idea of a round earth, but others objecting simply to the idea that there could be inhabited lands on the other side of it (a somewhat more realistic objection, touching on a debate that was quite real if you see the linked answer). Irving even goes further to note that:
But nevertheless, there remain several issues here. In the first, while it is certainly clear that Irving didn't present universal condemnation of the round earth, he certainly illustrated it as only the learned men of science who unequivocally agreed, and further he presents many of the objections as still being quite absurd. More importantly though, this wasn't the part that stuck in peoples' memory. That, of course, was the bit about a flat earth, and it only amplified over time. Several works that came out soon after cited Irving's claim helping to give further credence, and this was especially helped by the article by the anti-clerical scholar Antoine-Jean Letronne entitled "On the Cosmological Opinions of the Church Fathers" which heavily pushed the idea that flat-eartherism was near universal within Church beliefs through the Middle Ages, and thus gave more force to the idea. To be sure, there were a few ancient theologians who could be cited in support, including the 3rd century writer Firmianus Lactantius and the 6th century Cosmas Indicopleustes, but they were a distinct minority, and not at all representative of the body of thought, however these 19th century authors might have painted them. By 1853, hedging such as we see in Irving's account was mostly gone, as we can see in this passage from Alphonse de Lamartine "Life of Columbus" where he clearly draws on Irving but nevertheless writes rather unequivocally:
Although there are small number who seem to cautiously accept Columbus may be making a cogent argument, by this point, 25 years after Irving, there is little mention of anyone who had the slightest belief in the roundness of the earth prior to Columbus appearing at the court. And in this game of telephone, Lamartine's account of course only served as one of many amplifiers, being, for example, explicitly cited in the 1919 children's textbook "The Boys’ and Girls’ Reader" by Emma Miller Bolenius which simply stated:
Soon after she further plays up the superstition of the age to play up that Columbus' sailors were naive and fearful which only compounds the matter:
Specifically wondering about the obvious high regard for Columbus during the time in which so many places in the Americas were named for him, which makes more sense if by then his voyage was considered maverick genius and not of a doubtful gamble that just happened to work out.
Further works through the 19th and early 20th century continued to harp on this idea, painting the march of science - truth - of their own era against the stagnation of the old, and there is no sense in cataloging them, and it is instead sufficient to say that within only a few decades of publication, the passage that Irving had inserted into his work had taken on a life of its own, and - despite, as noted, not even being a proper reading of Irving's book - soon enough was near as absolute a fact of the Columbus story as sailing in 1492.
I just looked up the article you mentioned about Italian Americans too through my uni library and it took me to an article on Columbus in kids literature which is exactly what I need to be reading - cheers!
My primary interest in the Columbus myth comes from its place in 19th/20th century dialogue about race in America. I've written on this previously , with, again the main focus being on the 19th century conception, but I do touch a little bit in the follow-up comments on earlier ones, and how for the Revolutionary generation Columbus represented a way to separate 'America' from 'England', something which /u/takeoffdpantsnjaket also touches on as well there in . I'd also point which has several links for the specific topic of 'size and roundness of the Earth' which may be of interest.
Thanks for this thorough answer! Since it seems this mythology of Columbus emerged in the 19th century, what were the dominant narratives about Columbus and the roundness of the earth for the.