The US has been increasing munitions production again and again and trying to exhort western allies to increase production as well. The past year has definitely caused the DOD to reassess munitions stockpile levels. The fact of the matter is, Ukraine is in a fight where they are greatly outnumbered and there isn't a realistic amount that will be enough, nevertheless, collectively, we need to give Ukraine what they need to win.
Surely Russia are using more munitions than Ukraine? Does that mean that Russia has a higher capacity to produce or acquire munitions than NATO? That sounds… not right. Or are Russia depleting stockpiles quickly and about to run out?
Russia had/has a massive stockpile and their munitions are less complex than some of the stuff being sent to Ukraine, like Excalibur or himars, so i guess it's easier to produce.
Edit: They were making an absolute statement that russian munitions are less complex by comparing them to a launch platform. HIMARS can launch newer, more complex munitions, as well as decades old stuff.
Both "sides" are scouring the globe for existing caches of munitions (especially artillery shells due to their really prodigious use by Russia and Ukraine). So for example, we've heard accounts of Russia getting shipments from North Korea.
Russia has far more artillery tubes in Ukraine and it's not even close, the usage rates are also similarly lopsided. The stockpiles of Russian munitions were absolutely tremendous and largely goes back to the days of the USSR. Shipping the stuff is an issue for Russia and because of longer ranged HIMARS and other MLRS and drone systems, the Russian army can't keep ammo dumps as close to the battlefront as they liked without seeing them get blown to smithereens. This greatly exacerbates their logistics problems (as they have to transport lots of heavy munitions from depots further from the front which requires more trucks. Greater distance and more trucks equals way more fuel usage which compounds logistics even more.
There are some things only the Ukrainians can do, but there are many other things they cannot accomplish on their own and that's where the West has to step up.
Yeah, well, with much of the videos people watch what is difficult to see is just how things are really stacked against Ukraine, it really is a grim reality. However grim, that reality is juxtaposed by the grit, determination, resilience, and fight the Ukrainian people have demonstrated as well as the critical support world has provided whether it's the weapons, humanitarian, or direct and indirect financial support, live intel support, or sanctions on Russia.
I agree with your sentiments and knowing (and following) everything (public) the West has provided, I still have a sense more can and should be done to make Ukraine's fight quite a bit less unfair.
A Russian victory is not pre-ordained nor is there an inevitable demise looming. The Ukrainians have shown last year, they are capable of going on the counteroffensive and take back occupied territory. With advanced western weapons (which the Ukrainians have wielded to such devastating effect), their own ingenuity (including Neptune ASM, heavily modified Soviet Tu-141 'Strizh' recon drones turned into deep strike attack drones), as well as with their tactical adeptness, they have overcome many obstacles and odds. Still the Russians are a behemoth and no one should forget that.