This post has been locked because nuance is lost on some of our posters. Yes minors have been arrested by the police for creating child porn, though that has largely if not entirely stopped and it was always teenagers. However this is a ROBLOX related forum with a someone grooming a kid. There is a zero percent chance that child is treated as anything but a victim.
Spend 2-3 seconds thinking before you TRY DISCOURAGING A PARENT FROM REPORTING A CHILD PREDATOR you effing idiots.
Work in IN law enforcement and can definitely tell you she will not be the target. If you are in a small city/county call the Indiana State Police Crimes Against Children Unit, they are great. If you are in a larger city/county call and ask for their cybercrime or crimes against children unit. Either way you want a detective, not a patrolman. Another route would be to call your local CAC center which you can find at incacs.org. They work closely with law enforcement and will be a great advocate for your daughter.
One thing you should know is to be prepared to give up the phone so go ahead and back it up. It’s inconvenient but remember it is literally the crime scene.
SECOND EDIT: There are a lot of replies regarding the possibility that a minor would be targeted. This is fair. My advice is based on my experience in Indiana, and I can say that unfortunately I have had to have the same discussion with close friends and this was the advice I gave them and is what I would do if it were one of my children. If you live in another state I wholeheartedly agree that calling a local criminal defense attorney is good advice, and now that I think about it is what I would do.
EDIT: Forgot to add this but as a parent I would definitely want to know, so consider contacting the other parents in the group.
Thank you for the information. I will definitely go to the police then. We have already notified the other parents as well. I believe our town has a cyber crime department but if not will be contacting Indiana state police.