Pre-Islamic Arabia was relatively diverse. It was near major trade routes at the time and an intersection of several distinct religious traditions: Zoroastrianism in Persia, Christianity and Judaism in Africa (modern day Ethiopia) and the Levant, and Arabian polytheism.
Growing up, traditions/biographies of Muhammad say that he was a spiritual person, but do not say that he was devoted to a particular religious tradition. Muhammad's tribe (the Quraysh) where the guardians of the Kaaba and traders during most of Muhammad's life. As Muhammad was an orphan, he likely didn't rock the boat on that too much. Still, Islamic tradition is that Muhammad was not a polytheist (although that could be biased, for obvious reasons). At the time, the Kaaba was a center of polytheistic worship and trade. As protectors of the Kaaba, the Quraysh made lots of money by being accepting to different pilgrims that would come by, and there was likely no strict dogma of their polytheism--because excluding worshippers would cost them money (and also because polytheism is generally welcoming to worship of new deities).
- Most religious traditions did not have the same kinds of strict/unified dogma that we expect of them today. A Christian in Aksum would likely have very different ideas about Jesus than a Christian in Rome or Jerusalem. Most agreed on the general stories, but there was a lot more intermixing between religious traditions than we might understand now.
Growing up, the Prophet Muhammad was an orphan who traveled as a trader with his uncle. He would have been very metropolitan, being exposed to a wide variety of religious traditions and stories. In fact, there is a tradition saying met a Christian monk (named Bahira) when he was a child, and the monk predicted that Muhammad would be a prophet. Also, Muhammad's first wife (Khadijah) had a close cousin who was a Christian convert. So Muhammad was definitely familiar with Christianity.
- It might be interesting to note that Christianity and Judaism were influenced by Zoroastrianism, and Islam was maybe even more influenced by Zoroastrianism than any of the Abrahamic religions. Zoroastrianism is a bit of a unique worldview, in that it is has some "dualistic" traits. Zoroastrians believe that there are two forces (good/bad or order/chaos)--although they also seem to believe those forces emanate from a single divine force. While polytheists see gods as relatively neutral, and monotheists see God as a single entity, Zoroastrians see two opposite forces of relatively similar strenh. This might be one reason why Iblis (the Devil) plays a larger role in Islam than we see in Jewish/Christian traditions (historically, at least).
- While religious beliefs might be a bit of a melting pot, religious affiliations could be more strict, in that it was expected you would practice (at least publicly) the religious traditions of your tribe. One reason for this is that religion reinforced the power structure. For example, in Mecca the Quraysh derived economic power from being the protectors of the Kaaba (a polytheistic temple), so they naturally were upset when Muhammad started criticizing polytheism, since it threatened their position.
Finally, after Muhammad received his revelations, he was threated by the Quraysh and had to leave Mecca. Notably. he received shelter and protection from a Christian King in Aksum. Tradition is also that the residents of Medina (where Muhammad and the early Muslin converts stayed) was home to Jewish tribes. When Muhammad was asked to lead the community, he drew up a constitution that recognized the rights of all residents (Jews and Muslims), which might be informed by his life growing up around so many religious traditions.
Basically, to answer your question, it is fair to say that Muhammad was familiar with a wide range of religious traditions, including many of the Christian/Jewish stories contained in the Qur'an. These, along with Arabian Polytheism and Zoroastrian were likely influences on both him and his followers.
I might push back a bit on your statement that "Surely by Muhammad's time the Christian tradition was well established, and Jesus was firmly believed to be god himself come to earth as the Jewish messiah." While the Roman churches came to some agreement on this in the 6th century, there was nothing like the "Council of Chalcedon" for the Ethiopian/Coptic/Syrian churches that Muhammad would have been most familiar with. It wouldn't be far-fetched if an outsider actually viewed early Islam as a Christian sect (rather than an entirely new religion). I think that the distinctions between Judaism/Christian/Islamic theology--at least in the early 7th century--would not be as stark as some see them today.
After writing my question, I did have the thought that Muhammad was likely outside the realm of the (proto?) Roman Catholic branch, and would have likely been more influenced by the eastern tradition of Christianity. But maybe the Christianity of his area and time would be outside the eastern umbrella as well? (I'm a recent defector of the myopic western Christian tradition that I was raised in, so I'm still learning a lot about other histories.).
At any rate, your answer helps clarify things a bit. I think I was getting a bit caught up on the fact that Islam claims Abraham as their forefather. I was trying to trace a scriptural tradition that would support that (like the Judeo-Christian one), but it seems like that's not really the basis of Muhammad's teachings. That's perhaps just a feature of the religion resulting from the fact that Abraham was common to the Jews and the Christians around him.