Do you live in some kind of planned development or association that they would be working under an assumption that they have an easement on your property for a particular use or purpose?
I would advise against open carrying for the purpose of intimidation. While you might be within your rights to do so, it is not usually constructive.
It sounds like your local police are referring you to make your trespass complaints to the county sheriff. And it sounds like they want you to give them the name of the specific person because they aren’t going to bother actually trespassing them from your property but will just give them a petty misdemeanor citation for trespassing (which in my state is like $25). Contractor will consider it their cost of doing business.
You may be able to sue the construction managers company for your cost to rehabilitate any of your property they damage. If your law enforcement won’t trespass them, putting a suit together for those costs is probably much more reasonable than camping in your yard with a firearm.
Should I call the sheriff's dept for trespassing? Would I need to fill out the paperwork or is telling them to stay off my my property and them still doing it enough for a violation? Would it be considered vandalism as well from the damages done? They have also spilled concrete all over my pavers while they were stealing water on an occasion.....
I am not sure how to build a case to sue or what information I'd need to gather. If I run out of options I feel like guarding my property myself via armed "patrol" of it is the only recourse. The trespassing is annoying. The constant damage they are causing is absolutly infuriating and not something I want to keep letting occur.
What if they have stuff in my yard and it happens to get damaged? Who is liable for that? I mean if I found a pipe laying in my yard and decided to smash it up so I could dispose of it is legal?
I do live in a HOA. I scanned our association rules and see nothing that allows them any type of easement, besides that I highly doubt it would allow for damage to my property and stealing utilities which I also caught on camera. They laid down a ton of wood which also killed off some of my grass and the track marks on part my lawn probably won't recover either without help.
They drove through my yard with a tracked front loader, rocks wouldn't stop it. Ones big enough would be against hoa rules to have surrounding my yard.
I've put so much time and money into nursing my lawn back from the half dead, weed and fungus infested garbage that this same company gave us when we moved in. Others have had the same issue and when the company "fixed" the damaged lawn they simply plopped down the same half dead, weed and fungus infested garbage piece of sod and later said too bad so sad when it died after spreading weeds and fungus.....
Would it be possible, if you are willing, to talk to the construction company an offer them the use of your yard and water for them to put the pipes together and whatever else they're doing and that they will pay for the cost of repairing/relandscaping your yard? My immediate thought is that it might be easier to work with them than to try to fight against them.