A dishwasher is not utilities, it's a luxury appliance, and your Landlord is only responsible for fixing it if it's specifically listed as an included appliance in your lease agreement. If it's not, they have no actual obligation to repair it at all.
You can't break a lease over it. You can, occasionally, get a rent credit for the months it was out of service (a credit is different from a reduction), and that is a courtesy from your landlord. While an inconvenience, it's not something that will get you a huge amount - maybe $25-50 a month. (While I see your logic with the Utility Bill, it would actually charge you less if you just hand-washed the dishes).
There is nothing mentioned in our lease specifically but the indiana tenant laws states that we have the right to pay rent towards getting the problem fixed if they don't.
So, in most states you can't deduct repairs from rent (especially as they've "repaired" it 15 times). It's typically a violation of a lease for a tenant to make repairs at all (and they can withhold your security deposit after move-out if you do), but your lease sounds a bit lacking.
If your state AND lease allows you to make repairs, and includes repairs that are not exclusive to the Warranty of Habitability, then you typically have to put any withheld rent into escrow. I'd call my state code enforcement to confirm that you are understanding the law correctly, b/c they can just deduct that missing chunk of rent from your deposit when you move out.
It's a garbage situation, but be mindful that in the future literally EVERYTHING should be in the lease b/c they do vary. Appliances are neither required nor are they required for the landlord to maintain.
Landlord will provide and maintain the following appliances: Stove/Oven, Refrigerator, Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer (or "Communal Washer/Dryer"/"coin-op Washer/Dryer") etc etc. OR Landlord will provide/ Tenant will maintain - etc.
It seems like the maintenance guys just do quick fixes because its a piping issue they can't do anything about. They have tried to install a brand new dishwasher but it just led to the same issue a week later. In the email to the landlord should I notify them that we will be pursuing some kind of legal action if the problem is not solved?
I think well before trying to break the lease or withhold rent, you should send a letter/email landlord detailing in as much specificity as possible each and every attempted repair to the dishwasher, the dates, the disruption, show how your bills are higher, and explain that it appears this dishwasher is not repairable and ask the landlord to install a another new/used functioning dishwasher.
I think you can tell them that you it is the landlord's obligation to provide a functioning dishwasher and he's in default of the lease and you expect this to be resolved or "cured" in X days or you will deem it a breach of the lease and take legal action, etc. Does the lease mention the dishwasher or appliances?
I would suggest it hasn't been repaired. I assume the landlord has covered the cot of these 15 attempts?
You have to read your lease to see if it sets forth procedures for notifying each other of defaults, giving time to cure, etc.