Do not contact the officer. You already know he is not trustworthy so trying to work with him will probably not work out very well. I would get a good attorney and go from there.
I agree with everyone. Don't contact officer. This kinda situation happened to one my friends years ago. He didn't have a dash cam. I'd let the cop perjure himself. I think the judge would be pissed once he does that. Ianal though so please seek advice from someone that has it.
Do not contact the other party. This is now a legal proceeding as far as you are concerned. Keep all communications between your lawyer and the other driver's counsel or insurance company.
Get an attorney who has a good track record against the other driver's insurance ASAP, DO NOT MAKE A STATEMENT TO THE OTHER DRIVER'S INSURANCE, and have your attorney file a claim with his insurance.
There are plenty of attorneys who take cases in which material facts regarding an accident were either missing or were incorrect.
Insurance companies (his in this case) are not in the business of righting wrongs or making you whole again. They are in the business of making money.
You are lucky to have video evidence. Incidents like these happen everyday but the average driver doesn’t have video proof.
The other driver's insurance knows (or thinks they know) what happened. They have the accident report. They don't need any additional information from you, and anything that you say to them that give the appearance that you were negligent can be used to undermine your case. You have an attorney, let them handle the communications. Would you go to a deposition without an attorney? Why then would you take a phone call from the other driver's insurance and make a statement to them without counsel present?
You want to have any damage to your vehicle covered by the other driver's insurance. Their company will almost always low-ball you if your vehicle has to be replaced or has extensive damage, unless you represent an economic threat to their company and have the ability to extract resources from them in court. Insurance companies spend a lot of time and money analyzing accidents, the location, the type and cause of accident, the extent of the injuries, make, model, and year of the car, and they use that data to determine what a proper payout will be. It's almost always lower than that you want.