Yes go to the police and report your assault. Looks like Hawaii is single party consent for recording conversations, so make some back ups of the recordings you have.
Hi 1fg, thank you for sharing your advice. I will be heading to the police station and reporting the assault. I have the short video of me filming and her snatching the phone out of my hand and a video after she ran away when I caught up to her. I even have pictures of the cut of my lip but it was a day after so the swell was smaller. Is this enough evidence for the assault? And Is there anything I can do with her logging onto my accounts and deleting posts/blocking people?
Hi terifym3, thank you for commenting your advice. Is logging onto my accounts without consent and deleting posts and blocking friends/family and potential clients a crime for slander? To me it sounds criminal but is it slander plus another crime? And the evidence I have is screenshots of the block list on my account, her telling people to block me and that I’m spreading lies about her, and a text from her which quoted her mom asking if she can text me to not slander her daughters name. What other evidence could I gather up?
The police will likely take your statement of the event, but they probably won't do much else. It may be hard to prove that your girlfriend threw the phone at you, as opposed to just throwing the phone.
This probably isn't a situation to litigate your way out of. It is probably just a life lesson situation.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
I'm just pointing out that what you have described in your video is not necessarily going to be taken as "proof" of an assault. You don't make a "case" to the police. You file a report and they decide if they are going to do anything. Based on your videos, they may or may not. I am trying to prepare you for the fact that the police may not agree with your assessment.
I'm not saying that she didn't deliberately attack you. I'm just pointing out that your videos may not be the smoking gun that you imagine them to be.
I have a video of her grabbing my phone from my hand and stopping the recording before throwing it to my face (she threw it immediately after grabbing my phone). And I have a video of me asking why she threw my phone at my face and that it’s swollen and bleeding and her crying about it. I also have pictures of my lip.
How did she access your Instagram account? Have you previously given her your password? To sue over the activity on your Instagram account, you are going to have to prove financial damage. Likewise, slander or libel typically involves financial damage.
So saying the word “accident” when you physically assaulted someone automatically means there’s no case for assault? I’m sorry but I don’t think your logic makes sense. If you may, can you share where it says that if someone says “accident” then there’s no crime committed? Thank you!
This is fairly interesting. The way you say it is that the police is likely going to do nothing about an assault that has taken place. Rather uncomfortable news ngl. Well should I file a report anyways?
They will take a report down, but they may or may not do anything more, especially if your girlfriend just says it was an accident.
She admitted to getting mad and threw it too hard. Kept saying it was an accident and that it was meant to hit my lap. But it was no accident. She violently ripped the phone out of my hand because I was recording— which I have every right to btw. I don’t see how someone can just say they assaulted someone accidentally when there’s video proof of them admitting to doing the assault. If that’s the case, then what proof does one need to provide?
You indicate that she admits to causing an injury, but says that it was an accident. An injury is not automatically equivalent to assault.
An admission of assault would be if she said like, "I'm sorry. I shouldn't have thrown the phone at your face, but you just made me so mad!".
As I have already pointed out, I don't know if your girlfriend did intend to hit you or not. I'm guessing that she probably did.
However, I can guarantee that if you try that same type of snark with the police, they are going to do nothing.
If you think there could be further issues with your girlfriend, it's probably worth making a report, though, in case a pattern emerges.