You could mention it to the Clerk if you go back in, but the Clerk almost certainly assigns jurors at random and is not specifically selecting which juror goes where.
What they did this morning was randomly divide the jurors, and then because the first case was such that jurors who had a particular insurer couldn't hear the case, they removed those jurors from that case and put them on the other one. There was no one there going "Oh, I think that Mrs. Smith should serve on the rape trial and not the personal injury trial. She's better suited for it.".
Right. I was just saying that I think there is a way to put that I shouldn’t be in a group with that particular judge. Or exclude me all together.
Edit: I don’t want to get out of jury duty. I believe that one isn’t allowed to complain about bad verdicts if they’re not willing to be on a jury. However, I am a health care provider and have already run into a couple of HIPAA issues (I didn’t violate it, I just had to vaguely explain what the situation is). I’m not trying to get out of them, I just don’t want to have any undue conflicts.
If you've been removed there is no conflict. And it is doubtful there would be a conflict anyways, as a judge and juror do two different things.
When I mentioned it, in enough details that it could pretty much only be my case, he immediately scowled and turned to look something up on his computer for about 5 mins. He was still scowling afterwards. I mentioned specific things that he had done (before I knew it was him). And I’m pretty sure he would remember prosecuting an 18-yr-old for “killing an EMT”.
Anyways, I don’t have to go back tomorrow, since I wasn’t chosen for that case, but I may still need to go in later this week. Since there are only two judges this week, I’m concerned, which is why I want to let someone there know.
Ok. There is still no conflict of interest as neither of you would have an interest in the case. He would rule of matters of law and jurors would decide guilty or not guilty.
I wasn’t selected for that case, but was told I may have to go in later this week for different cases. My concern is that there are only two judges this week.