When she died, everything she owned became the property of something called Estate of Grandmother's Name. Since she did not have a will, state law determines wi=ho her heirs are. Anything she verbally expressed has no legal meaning.
In most states, assumin she was not married, her heirs would be her children. If a child died before her, that child's own children get the share. So, if Grandma had two children--your aunt & your mother--they would each get half of the estate. Since your mother has passed away, you (and any siblings your have) get your Mom's share.
The law sets out what happens to someone's estate when they die. Someone has to petiiton a probate court to be in charge of the estate. Until that happens, no one has the right to take, sell, give away or otherwise dispose of anything random owned. That person's duties are to inventory Grandma's assets and debts; pay debts using estate assets; and distribute what's left to the heirs. That's a simplified description of probate.
Most state laws would give your aunt priority to petition for appointment as estate representative. The law would also give her priority to be in charge of Grandmother's funeral. If Aunt files a petition, you would have to be notified and you could object. If Aunt doesn't petition within a reasonable amount of time, you could petition yourself..
Whoever is appointed to be in charge of the estate has what is called a "fiduciary duty" to the estate. That's a fancy term for "Do what the law requires, don't screw up estate assets; and don't take anything you aren't entitled to." In the worst case, you could sue the person in charge for breach of fiduciary duty and, if they lose, they would have to personally cough up any ,missing money.
So basically to ensure that my aunt doesn’t spend it all, I will need to sue her in some way? This woman is cremating my grandmother because it was cheaper than a burial like she wanted because it’s more money for her, so I have full faith she will spend my portion unless I do something.