A tonsor would have been identified in a commercial area by a display of bandages, which over the centuries evolved into the modern barber pole. Tonsores also shaved. (In the Empire, when beards were fashionable again, they groomed beards.). Barbers also supplied men with hair product, always their own blend (usually olive oil-based pomades, scented).
Varro provides the oldest citation of barbers in Rome, and they were a common enough feature in comedy.
The shears they used were connected, like one flat piece of metal bent to form a spring-like shear, with the ends turned and sharpened. Plenty of examples found in archaeological sites.
Hygiene and grooming was very important to Romans, especially those living in towns and cities. The more money one had, the more one spent on it.
A quick search turned up an old article from 1891 by F. Nicolson. This is exactly the kind of question scholarship from that era sought to answer and is still valuable for.
Great question! Too often scholars focus on literary criticism or monumental archaeology. But these kinds of things offer an insight into daily life.
Rome would feel more modern to present-day people than the Middle Ages. Their fashion sense would be surprisingly accessible and understandable to us.
But, in any museum near a Roman site, you’ll see bronze shears, and Roman literature is full of references to hair, grooming, fashion, etc. And if you look closely at the sculpture, you can see subtle changes in hair and clothing fashion over time. (Saying a toga is just a toga is like saying a suit is just a suit.). Women’s hair and clothing styles were more drastic, with silhouettes and textures changing more. Men’s hairstyles and clothing fashion evolved with more subtlety.
This is one of those kinds of things present-day scholars just don’t address, they take it for granted.
1) What kind of social role did the barbershop play? The above linked essay alludes to barbershops having a social function as places where gossip, news, chitchat, and so on were exchanged much like they are nowdays, but doesn't go into a ton of detail.
2) Was there a lot of differentiation between barbers in terms of price or customer-base? For instance, did some barbershops tend to cater more to the well-off or monied and others to more working-class clients , or did certain barbershops tend to cater more to specific ethnic or professional groups?
3) how much space would a barbershop have for people to wait for a haircut? Would waiting inside the shop have been A Thing?
4) Are there any sources that tell us about how widely distributed barbers were and where they tended to concentrate? For instance, is there evidence about whether we see more neighborhood barbershops or if people were more likely to go out of their way to their town's forum or commercial core to get a haircut? Likewise, if barbers tended to serve a very large clientele or if the pattern was for more barbers serving smaller clienteles?
The primary place for socializing, gossip, news, chitchat, etc, would have been the baths. Free to every citizen, the daily visit to the baths was the center of the kind of social life you describe. The Roman baths were like the modern health club or gym. There were workout areas; hot, warm, and cold baths; locker rooms; a place to clean one’s self (with a strigil); and a place to get refreshments. By far, this was the largest social center in Roman life, followed by the town/city forum (marketplace).
Roman women preferred up-do’s and had very exacting standards. Lots of curls, many very small, and the ideal standard was no two curls of the exact same size. And then they would add jeweled diadems, hairbands, etc.
No one is asking about women. Wealthy women sometimes had more than one slave to do their hair every morning. That would have entailed preparing the coals to heat the curling irons (iron mandrels of various sizes), curling, styling, and then perfuming the hair, every day. It could take hours.
1. Little, when compared to today. Interior spaces were small in all but the most lavish residences. Any socializing would likely have happened in queue outside.