Here's the thing. She could be inadmissible for multiple reasons, each with their own statutory timeline (criminal inadmissibility is indeed a permanent ban iirc but requires a conviction) and a waiver would need to be requested for EACH current inadmissibility.
She should have been given information on which sections of the INA were being used to deny her entry to the US. If you have the list, I can give you a more precise answer.
I believe they made an error. The officer didn't report she also violates INA 212(a)(2)(A)(i)(I)(Crime Involving Moral Turpitude) when she admitted to the prostitution 6.5 years ago.
She was only considered inadmissible for one reason. The papers she received form the officer says that she is inadmissible for Section 212 (a) (2) (D) (i) an alien who has the intent to come to USA to engage in prostitution, or has engaged in prostitution within 10 years of the date of application for a visa, admission, or adjustment of status.
All 3 of the immigration attorneys he spoke to say she has to admit engaging in prostitution until she becomes a US citizen. So if she were to be asked at a fiance interview have you ever engaged in prostitution she has to say yes.
My thought is that 1 is the most likely to be correct. She will be inadmissible until 10 years after the last time she engaged in prostitution. There is, however, a waiver process (mostly for immigrant visas) that you can use if she's denied a visa. See this for more information.
1 June/July of 2023 is correct. She will likely face a lot of scrutiny again by immigration officials, but she would not remain inadmissible under 212(a)(2)(D) for something committed more than 10 years ago. The language of the statute is very clear. She can technically apply for admission again before that date if she seeks and obtains a waiver, but I don’t see why she would need to. Is she trying to visit the U.S. because her boyfriend lives there? Or some urgent family matter? If no, it is much cheaper to just wait. Seeking a waiver for entry before July 2023 only seems worthwhile if she plans to marry a US citizen before then. 2 Nope. 3 This is not true generally speaking because many types of morally turpitudinous behaviors that can render someone inadmissible are considered conditional, not permanent, because they can potentially be waived.