It is true that the Ma Clique had a strong affiliation with Islam, being that many were ethnic Hui, most of whom practice Islam, which is still present in modern China. Because of that, I think the Ma Clique gets a lot of attention from Western observers, many of whom are usually surprised Islam is present at all in China. Anyone who has studied China, however, knows that while East Asian religion can be nebulous and extremely different from Western religion, "China" as a whole is quite ethnically and religiously diverse.
Thus, the Zhili Clique ended up having quite a few warlords who identified as Christian, most notably Feng Yuxiang, who later became a close affiliate of Chiang Kai-shek, who was also Christian. Many elites within the Kuomintang were well known Christians, including the Soong family, who consisted of future Minister of Finance TV Soong, Chiang's wife Soong Mayling, and Soong Ching-ling who married Sun Yat-sen and later became a communist revolutionary to her family's dismay. So while Christianity didn't peak among most warlords during the pre-Nanjing period, it as present and became more powerful with the rise of Sun Yat-sen and Chiang. It proved to be a powerful tool, along with Soong Mayling's American education, in securing trust and support from Western powers against Japan, which realistically didn't amount to much.
During the 1920s, it became somewhat of a fad among various Warlords to convert to Christianity. Its really hard to pinpoint something like a persons attachment to cultural and material things, so I cant really just go around saying "Well, warlord X converted to Christianity due to Y," but there's a good indicator that the powerful presence of the YMCA in China during this time was a driving factor. At a time when China was a failed state, various Western (and/or Christian) institutions that had existed within China for decades still held tremendous financial and political influence. In addition, Western-styles of life, politics, and culture seemed to be usurping traditional Chinese culture and power since the Opium Wars. Thus, for many wealthy elites, it made sense for them to send their children to Christian-run private schools in China, or to Japan, where they could receive a good, but more importantly stable, education. As a result, many of these future Chinese leaders grew up to be Christian. Again, this begs the question just how spiritually affiliated with their religion they were, who knows, but there were certain political implications to publicly announcing your new found Christian faith.
This religious attachment, and additionally attachment to a foreign ideology, became quite the bullet in the butt once communism became popular among Chinese elites. One can point out the irony of a party following a Western-born political ideology (communism) pointing the finger at KMT officials for adhering to a foreign religion, but I digress. Still, while I'm not expert on Chinese elite's religion, I imagine that most of these men were not exactly attached to Christianity the same way that Western leaders were. I do know that we have access to most of Chiang Kai-shek's personal diaries, and he was quite devout to Christianity. Additionally, he often blended many elements of Christianity with Confucianism, so we can possibly assume other devout Christian elites did too, as is natural with religious expansion.
So in conclusion, I can't give a straight answer, but we do know that Christianity became powerful during the 1920-30s among elites, especially Republican politicians. Christianity quickly fell out of favor once the CCP took over, but to this day roughly 2-3% of Chinese identify as Christians, which is about anywhere from 30-50,000,000 people.
This answer mostly focuses on Christianity. Do you happen to know anything about the affiliations of Buddhist and Taoists in the period? For example I’ve heard that Tang Shengzhi was a prominent Buddhist General?
I wanted to keep the answer more towards the realm of alien religions in China because 1) Christianity and Islam are both Abrahamic religions and 2) at what point is the answer just "Were Chinese warlords religious?" No, there were no cliques out there making themselves out to be defenders or upholders of Daoism/Buddhism.
That being said, it is known that there were several important warlords affiliated with Buddhism, Tang Shengzhi being one and the other important one being Duan Qirui. But there is a difference between being a well-known general who is a follower of Buddhism/Daoism, and being one who defends/enforces the principles of said affiliation on the battlefield. The issue with Buddhism in Chinese history is, well... it has a rather tense relationship with the traditions of Chinese culture, being that Buddhism itself is also a foreign religion, and even by the 1900s (and into today) Buddhism wasn't as well integrated into China as it was other countries across Asia. In fact, when the Northern Expedition was launched in 1926, KMT general Bai Chongxi, a Muslim, actually went out of his way to destroy Buddhist temples and artifacts along his army's route. It has been argued that Chiang was attempting to form the KMT along a sort of authoritarian Confucian "fascist" party mixed with his own personal Christian beliefs, as argued most prominently by Maggie Clinton in . By the 1930s there is a clear influence of Christianity on Chinese politics, although this influence is nowhere near as powerful as it was across the West. This may be confusing though, because even though Chiang and other ministers were prominent Christians, there was still a large portion of the Chinese population, especially communists, who were anti-Christian, often leading to Chiang looking the other way or ignoring the destruction of Christian schools and churches in China during this period (Jessie Lutz, Chinese Nationalism and the Anti-Christian Campaigns of the 1920s). Still, to say that Christianity had no influence on these young men who grew up in YMCAs across China would be wrong.
Daoism on the other hand is a very complex religion... philosophy? I wouldn't call Daoism a religion, but some might. Additionally, Daoism is even more unorganized than Buddhism is as a religion. It would also be quite unusual for someone to rise as the defender of Daoism in the same way one could be a defender of Christianity. And really, many Chinese do not view Daoism as a religion the same way a Muslim or Christian views their own. I wish I had more training with religious studies, but really all I can use is what I've read and my own anecdotes while living in East Asia. Its all hard to explain and I'm not a religious studies expert but the way religion is viewed in modern East Asia is immensely different from the West.
So anyway, whats all this rambling and comparisons between East/South Asian philosophies/religions with Abrahamic religions gotta do with? My main point is that the question OP asked implied a special attachment between specific religion and the Cliques. Whereas the Ma Clique had Islam, most of the KMT had Christianity; and those who weren't Christian were usually adherents to Confucian philosophy, most prominently Li Zongren. Buddhism and Daoism never had the same cultural influence on government in post-Qing China that Christianity did for the early KMT and Islam did for the Ma Clique. Of course nowadays Mainland China is officially atheist, and it is true that during the Mao period religion lost a lot of its allure over the general population of China. Were there Buddhist warlords and ones who adhered to Daoist philosophy? Certainly. But as always, politics often take precedent over religious beliefs, and you can hardly call a man running around murdering armies a Buddhist. Confucianism still remained the most prominent set of ideologies influencing Chinese government going into the warlord and Nanjing periods.
I get that there isn’t a one to one comparison between Abrahamic religions and Eastern religions but it does seem a little strange that one can say “you can hardly call a man who runs around murdering armies a Buddhist” yet say without dissonance the majority of the KMT were followers of the man who said those who live by the sword die by the sword. This isn’t to accuse you personally of Orientalism but there does seem to be a weird purity testing from Western sources towards Eastern religions as though only the yogi of the mountains is the real religious person and everyone else isn’t, while anyone who professes an Abrahamic faith is taken as just that.
It is true that many (especially older) Western sources do try to make out Far Eastern religions as an exotic, mystical religion heavily tied in with nature only truly understood by some sort of lone monk on the top of the Himalayan Mountains.
That being said, with these statements we're kind of crossing into the realm of anthropology/religious studies, and outside of history. Especially since how Christianity is understood in China is itself different from the rest of the World, just like Christianity has taken on different messages and tones throughout Africa, South and Central America, although Christianity in China has remained staunchly Catholic rather than Pentecostal. For how Christianity has developed alongside Chinese customs and practices, A New History of Christianity in China by Daniel Bays is a good book. But since its an interesting topic nonetheless, allow me to retort on your statement:
I hope this clears up why I ignored other religions/philosophies! Feel free to ask any questions if you want.
Thanks for the answer. I wasn't aware that the Christianity was truly significant in the KMT, it certainly isn't given much space in the books and articles I've read. I'm also interested like the other commenter in the role other religions played, he mentioned Buddhism and Taoism but I've heard native Salvationist religions are quite popular in China for some time.