Your pastor is an ass, and would apparently rather you stay in a failed marriage than that you be free to move on.
I understand that you take his advice seriously, and that you have strong spiritual beliefs about when a marriage can be severed, but I'd encourage you to seek a secular counsellor independently of your pastor who can work with you to better manage your needs. The ground reality is that a divorce is a legal formality, at this point, as the marriage has already disintegrated.
One way to look at this is that a divorce can be a purely secular step to separate your legal lives while you reconcile. If you do reconcile, you can remarry one another in the eyes of the law to reaffirm your marriage in the eyes of the church; if you don't reconcile, then you'll have benefitted from the legal separation as early as possible.
You can file for a separation without fully terminating your marriage. The process is nearly identical to a divorce, except that you remain married. Your separation can be undone if you reconcile.
However, you should consider that there's a strong possibility your ex-wife will want to date other people. A separation agreement can't stop her from doing so, and sharing a home with her means you'll have to directly confront that reality when she brings a date home.
Get a divorce lawyer and go over your goals with them. It sounds like you can expect trouble, unfortunately.
I don't think she'll want to date, but if she does then I'll likely be able to divorce her without issue. I understand that a separation can be undone, but can it be 'upgraded' to a divorce? I don't think any parenting plan we agree on while separated will be a good plan to keep if we divorce.
The goal of a separation is to prepare for divorce. If the divorce can be averted, great, but the _default outcome_ of a long-term separation is that one or the other spouse files to finalize it as a divorce.
A separation is mostly a holding action to delay things like the division of marital assets while the spouses work out more pressing concerns or while they make the final decisions about a divorce. That can make it easier to unwind than re-combining assets post-divorce would be.
From what I've read about legal separation is that to convert it to a divorce you have to do so as-is. That means whatever division of assets & parenting plan is in place becomes permanent. Is it possible to have a different settlement in case of divorce?
Again, Ohio and 30 years ago, but when we moved to divorce, the separation agreement was incorporated as-is. Then again, the judge asked me (I was the petitioner) if I still felt the property split was fair. I assume things would have come to a screeching halt if I'd said no at that point. I had an attorney; my ex did not.
NAL you can file for legal separation. It sounds like you need something in place to protect your interests and rights. You can include a parenting plan as well. Check out this site for free downloads and instructions.