I can only speak to one part of your question: North Africa was actually hit extremely hard by the Black Death and did not recover until modern times. For example: Egypt, which historically was one of the largest regions of the Mediterranean World, experienced such sharp declines that it took until 1800 to reach the same population as under Rome in the first century, which was about half the population of the island of Great Britain (5 million vs. 10 million). (1) Egypt lost perhaps 1/3rd of its population in just 18 months. (2) There would then be 27 additional waves of plagues over the next 160 years (3), costing the central state 80% of its tax revenue (the closest thing we have to census records for the 1500s). But the effects weren’t limited to Egypt, which actually “survive[d] the Black Death better than the rest of North Africa and the Middle East”. (2).
Thanks for this! Its always awesome when we learn more. This is not my specialty, just an area I’ve been trying to learn more about recently.
What writers from the younger generation do you recommend which do a good job integrating recent archaeology? I’ve basically just been reading through Herskovits Prize winners the past bit haha.
Following the awards is a sound plan if you've got limited time! It's led me to many things outside my fairly modern era.
Quote: “Algeria suffered five plague epidemics during the eighteenth century alone; Egypt and Tunisia, three. Contemporary mortality figures are unreliable, but the epidemic of 1784–5 was said to have killed one of every three or six people in Tunisia. “ (168).
Hello, I have an off topic question. I do not know if this is allowed, and will happily delete it if you would like.
I'm not an archaeologist so it's hard to say firmly; I tend to be a modernist. I like Dueppen's lit reviews and focus on forgotten core elements of society--instead of talking about objects descriptively like a sterile scientist, he really talks about what they mean, and what they require us to re-evaluate. He's got a new book entering press, out in a few months or less. Daphne Gallagher's new book on Burkina is also a monumental thing, also just out, that unpacks changes and constancies in social organization and life ways, and I know she's engaged with some of this plague data before. I haven't read her lit discussion in depth but from hearing her talks I know she up turns some apple carts which is a good thing. The others I know less well (although I know several of them directly--it's a small town at the ASA). There is also a new rising group of West African archaeologists making their knowledge heard which is to the good.
John Iliffe is actually an Africa specialist, and posits Sub-Saharan West Africa “was protected by the Sahara against Old World epidemics”, finding that only in the 1740s were the regions plagues even remotely in-sync with north of the desert (indicating closer integration). (4).
Oh! In terms of who integrates new Archaeology well, I know the current hubbub over the Sudanic Empires that followed Michael Gomez's recent African Dominion, including the AHR roundtable last year, is worth looking at. However, the archeological discussion still gets left out of surveys a lot despite our efforts to work together here in the trenches. Toyin Falola is coauthoring a new general history coming out and he knows the archaeologists (really he knows everyone and seems to coauthor or author a new book/essay every few months, which is kind of amazing) so that one might be worth checking out. Not many are younger, though, besides maybe Trevor Getz, because the life cycle seems to be "become an eminent beardy historian and then write general histories.".
I have a regret for not learning about something and am hoping you maybe able to help me. I would like to learn a little about the history of working of iron for wasukuma east of Shinyanga. Specifically near Mwanhuzi.
In Tanzania: Elgidius Ichumbaki is at the University of Dar es Salaam, focusing on Swahili, and cultural heritage preservation.
This is currently under significant challenge by archaeologists of West Africa who chart significant and lasting changes in social organization through occupation patterns and land use around that time, although conditions are not conducive to the preservation of direct evidence of Y. pestis. Elizabeth Wade talks about the effort broadly in a piece from Science 363 no. 6431 (March 2019), DOI 10.1126/science.363.6431.1022 . Some of these essays have already appeared, but others are still in process; I think Dueppen's is out now. This is one of the most accessible overviews of what they were up to at least two years ago. I know they're continuing this but of course COVID has affected the ability to work sites.
Freda Nkirote is director at British Institute of East Africa in Nariobi. She focuses on cultural heritage and pre-colonial archaeology.
Getting away from this question specifically, for southern Africa I'm a fan of Innocent Pikirayi and Shadreck Chirikure, as well as the "500 years" group and others like Jan Boeyens who are really connecting their work to social and cultural history as well as more recent memory. But I'm not aware any of them have really dug into epidemic processes. I am not sure who's working in Tanzania and Kenya right now, which is a gap. The big Afr Archaeology journals are worth browsing TOCs, and for the south I watch Azania (the journal). Lots of good debate and new findings there. /u/Commustar knows much more about who is active in other regions, I think.
Long ago at UDSM, I looked quickly into the history of working of iron and found some information about the practice coming from both N. Zambia na wafipa. Being busy with studies, I never looked further.
I also really like Adria LaViolette and Stephanie Wynne-Jones' book _The Swahili World_. In it, Wynne-Jones mentions that Kilwa was affected by Bubonic Plague epidemic in mid 14th century, experienceing population loss. She also points to fact that Kilwa monarchs stopped striking coins after 1374 and the Grand Mosque collapsed and was only repaired in the 15th century.
Mary Prendergast (Rice) and Katherine Grillo (U Florida) have done very interesting work on early herder communities around southern Lake Turkana, and pastoralist megaliths circa 4000-5000 years ago.
A quick search of Google Scholar has turned up by Charles Saanane at UDSM which is a survey of Simuyu region. He talks briefly about iron smelting sites.
Do you know anyone I can read, email, or speak with? Maybe teachers in Tabora or Kampala that would know or have access to resources?
I know that Peter Schmidt published a book about iron working of buhaya in the Kagera district. Title is _Iron Technology in East Africa_.
Given that Dr. Saanane has recently done archaeological/cultural heritage work in Sukuma area, you might try and contact him. I suspect he might have much better idea of the state of research for that particular topic.
I have been meaning to ask on Jamii Forum, will still ask there too, but have been upset at men of JF recently. This will be very helpful to me.
However, there has been push-back against that article's findings. by Clist, Denbow et al. states that there is not strong evidence of population crash in the era 400-600. They also take issue with Seidensticker et al's pottery typology schemes, and note that archaeological surveys have tended not to strongly cover the Early Iron Age/Late Iron Age transition period (circa 500). And also argue that genetic evidence for Yrsenia Pestis in central Africa indicates it is from Middle Ages plague, not Justinian plague.
There has been a recent debate in archaeology about population dynamics in the Congo basin from the 600s-1200.
by Seidensticker, Bostoen et al does a meta-analysis of archaelogical finds of pottery in the Congo basin, paired with linguistics analysis (Bostoen's specialty) to argue that there was a sharp decline in population between 400-600 AD. They note that this is roughly contiguous with the Justinian Plague of the late 500s-750.
Regarding specifically the Black Death in the 13th 14th century, as /u/Khosikulu has said, there are several archaeologists working on this question in West Africa. by Gerard Chouin; Gallagher and Dueppen; Marie-Laure Derat; and Monica Green, respectively.