Know a family who bought a house all cash to take advantage of the lower market. They borrowed from friends and family for something like 3%, basically for their relatives it's better investment than savings account and for them they get to buy a house "cheap" without dealing with the high interest rate.
I do agree though that having relatives that can trust each other with money like this is really advantageous.
Oh we are in Texas and I think the house they got was something like $400K? But yeah I doubt they can come up with $1mil from friends and family but then I may be presuming much regarding their relatives lol.
Oh wow - what area of texas are you in? I have some friends in the austin area that tell me houses exploded in price over there, too. I am in southern california where cities refuse to build housing, heh.
I am glad i already own (i bought during a crash) because my house has skyrocketed in price; however, others need a house, too .
Housing in Texas anywhere other than Austin and Dallas is pretty cheap. But in this case they live in Houston. And $400K can get a good normal 23K sq feet house in the suburbs depending on quality of the house.
I am in a suburb in LA/OC area with a 1600sqft house; houses within 1-2 streets from me are currently on the market for 850-950 - i live in the "cheaper" area (one more street over is the jump to 1M+). It has to feel impossible for new buyers .
In terms of what they can earn through other forms of investment, of course that is indeed what they're missing out. But many people are perfectly content with safe investment with low rate of return. Presumably the fact that they had that much money on hand means they don't invest all that they earn.
Yeah they're definitely not the norm, since you need people who has this kind of money lying around and that they trust you with it. Just saying that in some cases, especially if you can afford a house just using cash, it's actually a good time to buy.
Those friends and family are gifting the difference in what they could be earning in other forms of investment.
Plus they are taking on significant liability with limited recourse if the borrower does not uphold repayment.
Well in this case the issue is high mortgage rate. You are right that in general people tend to loan for down payments not the entire thing. When I bought my house my parents loaned me for most of the 20% down and the rest mortgage. But that was back when I got 2.7% rate now it's more like 56%.