Hi I’m a lawyer (NY) and child advocate who works with survivors of sexual assault. I am so sorry that happened to you. This is not your fault at all. He took advantage of you.
This was very helpful and scary to read, i reached out to my manager and told my parents. The sheriffs department collected clothing evidence that had dna and took pictures and a detective is gonna talk to me next week. In the mean time i will look at what you suggested and try to go about doing those things. Once again thank you, i don't really know who else to turn to so reddit seemed like a solid option and you all did not let me down at all. I feel hopeful.
Hi OP. I am so sorry this happened to you. Yes, this is sexual assault. would likely be relevant if this has been occurring since before your last birthday. is relevant if you're alleging that you're incapable of consent, and is the relevant statute if the other two fail to cover the situation (as it's essentially what you've described in your post). is also relevant, since you state you have autism and the person was giving you transportation related to your employment.
I don’t practice in your state but it appears this statute may apply to your situation . Do you have a trusted adult in your life who can support you and get you through the next few weeks? If so, please reach out to a trusted adult to assist you. I recommend finding a in your county who can act as a liaison between you and law enforcement and who can provide you with resources like social work help. Many nonprofits provide free advocates. It will make a world of difference. You might want to start by contacting this , that looks to be close to Lacey. Please note I am not associated with this org, I found it through a search. If they can’t take you for an intake, you may ask them to send you a free legal service providers list for your area.
When you get that situated, you may want to pursue a civil claim against him (lawsuit or pre-suit settlement), and so you eventually may ask the advocate for a referral for that type of lawyer and find out the statute of limitations (deadline you must file by). You will likely have time for all of that.
If it's been less than 5 days since the last time this happened, can help you get a sexual assault nurse examination. They have trained advocates who can go to the exam with you and help you through the process. about the process, and can provide some general assistance with locating counselling services as well.
When you are searching for a legal advocate, I would express that you are primarily looking for help with getting an order of protection, social work needs, and with getting through the criminal justice process. Good luck!
I am so sorry this happened to you. Please reach to RAINN or your local woman’s shelter. Also this is not your fault..humans have 3 go to reactions when faced with trauma fight/flight/freeze. Do not blame your self for this. If you have a trusted adult in your life reach out to them…you are heard.
Edit: I forgot to mention you may also want to ask the advocate for help with safety planning. This is really important. Likely it will come up when discussing an order of protection, but it wouldn’t hurt to have plans in place if he ever tries to contact you or come to your home.