What does this company actually do/sell? You are likely misclassified as phneri stated but the answer to this question might impact the analysis of 1099 vs. W2.
I mean, I agree you are likely misclassified as an independent contractor and are actually an employee - and therefore should just move on.
This is not a requirement for companies that are as small as the one that you work for. All they are required to provide is minimum wage for the area you work (state or local min) and overtime as provided by law.
Actually, wouldn't they only be required to pay federal minimum wage as small as they are? I'm unsure about Texas but at least in Ohio if a small business has less than so many employees or makes less than $300,000 a year I believe, they're only required to pay federal minimum.
I would just add- for comparison- if she had her own marketing/client relationship business and had a contract with this company to execute these services (hopefully for more than 13/hour) then it would become legal.
But as far as an office job where you are treated as an employee (set schedule, they are your sole income, have to ask permission to come go, etc.) this is not contract work, this is employment.
I personally, submitted myself to a situation like this because it benefited me at the time and I had a small business I was trying to start so I just viewed it as my “steady client”. But we had a written agreement between one another (ie the “contract” portion of being a contractor), I had an LLC setup and a had a solid understanding of what my tax situation would be. I guess the difference between my situation and your situation is the company I was working for and I were both very aware of how we were engaging one another, the legal limits of that, and I was fully aware of the benefit I was giving them to my own detriment in certain areas.
-as an employee a portion of your federal taxes would be paid by your employer. Filing taxes is also much more simple and, oftentimes free through many services if you are only declaring w2 income. In some states (federally?) you are paying up to 5% more in self employment taxes. So if your making 26k a year working full time that is almost 1300 more in taxes. Additionally- if you are doing it right- you are supposed to make quarterly payments to the irs.
-you are not covered under workmans comp in this situation. If you are lifting say a heavy package they received and throw your back out, you are not covered.
-you are not covered under their general liability insurance. So say some kind of damage is caused by your daily duties (however small that chance may be) you would be legally liable for it, not the company.
It’s kind of a tough one, because taking action with, say the labor board, would certainly strain or end the relationship. I am not sure how far you would want to take it. I would suggest sitting them down, especially if doing the California move and explaining you would be much more comfortable continuing on with them as an employee in the capacity you are working with them and you are insisting that is how you proceed. I do know California is much much more strict on these types of grey areas as compared to Texas as it is. It’s in their best interests to do this long term anyway.
If they try to talk around it- stand your ground. If they get shitty and let you go or threaten you, that’s probably when I would be taking it to the labor board.