Pro: I have a good insurance policy with State Farm so they’ll likely pay out higher than Safe Co. will. From the two claims we’ve had to make with my company we’ve made out like bandits both times.
Edit: I have called them, but don’t want to jump the gun paying my deductible as I was informed I’d have to.
Your insurance will go after any means they can to make you whole. If said tweaker stole the other car, the other car's owner should not be made to pay to fix your car. Again, this is why you have uninsured/underinsured motorist coverage. You can sue the other driver in small claims for your deductible. You likely won't get your money back, but if they have a judgement against them, you can also get a garnishment order against them and get paid out of their future wages.
So at the end of the day it does seem like I’m unlucky in the sense that I’ll need to pay my deductible and have to do a lot of leg work to recover it?
I don’t have her insurance info, just the car owner‘s. The driver was excluded from the policy. She could possibly be in surgery or something which is why they can’t get into contact with her, or she’s not returning the calls because she is/was a tweeker who was either distracted or intoxicated.
If they are not providing liability coverage to the person who caused the accident, then there is no reason for them to send someone to evaluate the vehicle, because they will not be paying for the damages.
The driver is likely judgement-proof. I’ve come to this conclusion by creeping on her Facebook. She has no teeth and is/was likely a tweeker.
Yes. Police came, ticketed her and she was taken to the hospital. Actually the State Trooper went to the hospital to ticket her after the fact.
Contact your insurance. Do you have insurance against an uninsured driver or under insured driver. Your insurance should be doingvsome of this leg work for you.
It depends on whose liability the insurance policy agreed to pay for. In many cases, a policy covering a vehicle will cover those who have had permission to drive it, but it is possible for an insurance policy (typically the kind advertised as the lowest possible cost to give vehicle owners state minimum coverage) to only cover the named policyholder. Furthermore, an insurance company cannot pursue the covered person, because it would defeat the entire concept of insurance, which is risk transfer from the covered person to the insurance company.
If you have collision insurance on your vehicle, file a claim. If you have PIP and/or Uninsured Motorist coverage on your insurance, make a claim for that if you have been injured.
All of that makes sense, except why am I the one getting fucked over instead of the guy who let his tweeker mother drive his car when she is excluded from his insurance plan. Shouldn’t it be his problem at this point?
They are liable. But do you think they have the money to compensate you? You are in a bad situation and I am sorry for that and this the best avenue available to you.
Unless she has her own car insurance I assume she’s judgement-proof. At the end of the day my deductible isn’t going to break my bank, but it sucks ass to have to fork that over and pay more on insurance going forwards for an accident I’m 0% responsible for. Thank you, I appreciate the help and kind words.