Refusing to comply with this unlawful deduction illustrates to your employer that you are aware of your rights. It also makes it more likely that your co-workers will become aware of their rights. And in a diffuse way, it improves the function of the labor market because you're one more worker unwilling to exchange their labor for less than the wages they are entitled to.
It is not expected or normal to have your wages or tips stolen by management. You don't have to "go along to get along", and you are doing the right thing for yourself and all of your co-workers by refusing.
South Carolina is well known for weak employee protections in wage and hour laws. SC has no minimum wage law, so they use the Federal minimum of $7.25 per hour, for example.
And SC has few laws regulating deductions from wages, so South Carolina workers are principally protected by the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA).
A SC worker is required to be of any deductions from her wages on her ordinary paystub. But the employer does not need permission to make that deduction, as long as the deduction does not take the worker below that Federal minimum wage.
Demanding cash repayment is legally the same as deduction from your paycheck. They could accept such a repayment in cash, but would have to put it on your paystub that they did so.
So I’m not sure you have to repay it or not but for advice in the future when you are given money that you are responsible for know how much is supposed to be there and count it EVERY shift before you start and after before you give it back. That way it’s double counted and there aren’t any mistakes. But counting it before makes sure the correct amount was in there and there aren’t any mistakes. I worked somewhere they have been off up to $30 and I refused the money until it was the correct starting amount.
Unfortunately if they fire you and you haven't made a wage complaint about the prior (functional) deductions, you can't prove it was retaliation for making a legal complaint.