In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
That said, for all of those sitting on a pink Cloud expecting the Republicans to tear each other apart, please recognize that a lot of their opinion programming is based off of controlling the narrative and using kayfabe to entertain their audience. This "brawl" is likely to last for a very short period but I don't expect it to be long before they get their act together and we are back to the traditional articles about Dems in disarray.
My personal bet is that there is enough kompromat on the "careers" and "firebrands" that disclosure of party Secrets would be mutually assured destruction at this point.
Those who control the right-wing narrative are likely to come to backroom deals in order to reorient things and I truly hope that they are willing to take this as a referendum against their stoking of a civil War between fictional factions fabricated by fractional friction.
IMO this is the way out of this mess for the GOP that lets them retain as much of their base. First they start turning the average GOP voter against Trump and say that someone else deserves a chance while blaming their loss on Trump and the democrats. Then some new information around one of his many crimes will come out and the GOP will just stop calling it a political witch-hunt to prosecute Trump. They’re going to wipe Trump away from the party and to avoid him starting his own party the more legal issues Trump is wrapped up in the better for the GOP.
Trump is about to take a heel turn and DeSantis is going to be the face. The question is how hard the Republican Party turns on Trump and whether they will abandon him when it comes to criminal and civil issues.
Trump can't be humbled or controlled, so we'll see. In everything he is only in it for himself, so I'm not seeing a whole lot of ground to compromise here between Trump, Ron, and the GOP as a whole.
Now that he is an albatross around the entire right wing at the moment, I expect them to drop him like a hot potato. Given how comfortable the extreme right wing has become with threats of political, economic, or violent retribution, I would not want to be him facing the very monster he fed and fostered.
That's what you get when you Court reality TV and Public Image/relations rather than keeping your party at least moderately separate from the opinion programming. Ever since the tea party, the Republicans have been getting more and more comfortable with seeing their Collective organization as a big party of grifters rather than serious participants in governmental operations.