In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Well for the far-right it’s whatever they ask for, which seems to be pretty secretive, but probably some crazy shit, like giving MTG the House Oversight Chair or something, along with committing to investigate Biden or impeach him on x grounds.
For concessions in a bipartisan agreement. dems would probably ask for an even split of Rs to Ds on committees, no election deniers as chairs or maybe even on committees. Maybe some action on healthcare or wherever they think there is national bipartisan support. In exchange the Dems help pass bills, probably agree not to run candidates in certain districts (or at least not provide financial support).
Can't put in legal binding document, because even if it's in a document, when you try to sue for breach of contract the court will just throw it out as too political.
One thing for the holdouts is that they want to change the rules so that only one person is needed to invoke a motion to dismiss the Speaker. McCarthy wont go lower than 5 people needed.
I think nominating Scalise or another establishment character would not be enough for 4-6 of them and that’s all you need to keep this going. A far-right candidate won’t realistically be nominated and win because it would torpedo the GOP to have some bumbling idiot like MTG be in such a position.
It would be a return to early 20th century Congress where there were a few minor parties and coalitions. More like a parliamentary system. Might not be the worst thing ever. Def better than McCarthy ending up in charge puppeteer by the far-right loons.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
3. A group of moderate Reps break off and pick a centrist nominee and they plus all the Dems get behind that candidate.
That leaves 3 as the most likely with 4 next and then a pretty distant 5. For 5 to happen it would be a monumental logistics clusterfuck.