In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Sisolak cost himself the governship by having a corruption scandal - buying COVID tests that didn't work at way higher than fair market value from a donor.
Sisolak was a pretty sleazy and corrupt politician but he really lost because he did the right thing and closed down Vegas during the pandemic. He potentially saved tens of thousands of Nevadan lives and many of those people voted against him. The economic costs were just too much for some people even though it was the right thing in the long term. In terms of policy, he was a fairly solid Governor but his issues had been known for a while. Most of my family, who are almost all Democrats, didn't vote for him because of something he did to one of my distant relatives back in the 80s so he's been corrupt for a while.
But if the Democrats were really imploding, they wouldn't have a supermajority in the Assembly and one seat shy of one in the Senate. If our legislative sessions weren't so damn short, the democrats should be sending him every progressive policy they can think of and dare him to sign that veto because if even one Republican senator is sick or on vacation, then he can't stop it. Cortez Masto was always going to be in for a rough election, CCM was always one of the most vulnerable Democratic senators that election cycle alongside Warnock, and yet she survived.
It helped that CCM was an incumbent who was on the Biden VP shortlist, which is not exactly chopped liver. And Adam Domenici Laxalt was a terrible candidate whose own family appears to hate him as they keep writing editorials telling people to vote for his opponent. Republicans sowed a field of weak, sub-par, downright clown-car candidates in 2022 and reaped a bumper crop of losses - except for the House, their only real win was Lombardo.