In my opinion, the notion of Luddendorff as a 'prodigy general' has far more to do with his linkage to v. Hindenburg, his role in the mythologizing of the Eastern Front in WWI (specifically at the Battle of Tannenberg), a limited period of efficacy on the Western Front, and his later effusive support for the false narrative of the Dolchstoßlegende (stab-in-the-back theory). In truth, Erich Luddendorff was more in the right place at the right time serving alongside Hindenburg, and managed for a time to leverage the Field Marshall's prestige and the precarious state of the German war effort to achieve significant power. I do, however, reject the notion that he had some sort of 'absolute power, as evidenced simply by the fact that he was removed from command by the Kaiser with the support of Hindenburg in 1918. While he attained an almost unprecedented level of control over the military and political decisions of Germany for several years, he was unable to leverage that control for any sort of long term political power or to achieve any of the major goals for Germany victory (overseeing instead, in this case, punishing defeat).
Ultimately, I would conclude that Erich Ludendorff was not some brilliant, Ender Wiggin-grade military genius who seized total control of the most powerful country in Europe and nearly brought it victory before it was snatched away by internal conflict. He was a capable, relentlessly ambitious man who managed to link himself to one of the most popular military figures of his era (Hindenburg). He was fortunate enough to be assigned to the Eastern Front and benefitted greatly from the lopsided conditions between his and the Russian forces, as well as the brewing Revolution in what became the USSR. He arrived on the Western Front at the right time to oversee what appeared to be a turning tide for the Germans, yet ultimately supported actions that drew America into the conflict and doomed his side. Ludendorff was able to insert himself into high command positions by virtue of his popular image and by threatening to resign and take Hindenburg with him, but he was widely despised by his peers and quickly jettisoned once he was in a vulnerable position. Finally, his reaction to these events was the embrace of anti-semitic, nationalist conspiracy theories that removed all blame from him for his military defeats. In the process, he raised his personal profile while lending his image and mythos directly to growing nationalist movements, notably the NSDAP. Far from rejecting Nazism as an ideology, Ludendorff only turned against the movement when it became clear that they had no intention of sharing power with him. With his death, as with Hindenburg's three years before him, he gifted the Nazi's an opportunity to link their struggle with the pseudo-mythologizing Dolchstoßlegende of the Great War. If Erich Ludendorff was a 'prodigy general,' it was only because his own self-aggrandizing, refusal to accept responsibility for his actions and alliance with Nationalist elements overshadowed his actual behavior and role in the German defeat during the First World War.
Quick note on sources, because so much of the way Ludendorff is characterized depends on who is writing about him, at what point in time, and to which audience. The largest bulk of the lionizing of Ludendorff came from his own (anti-semitic, nationalist, deeply bitter) writings as well as the later co-opting of his image for Nazi propaganda purposes (e.g. his highly publicized Nazi state funeral, performed against his express wishes to not be linked to the nationalism of Hitler and the NSDAP). My principal source is the writings of English historian John Wheeler-Bennet in his 1936 book Wooden Titan, a biography of Hindenburg that drew on the author's many personal interactions with key players in early 20th century Germany. I will acknowledge up-front that by his own admission Wheeler-Bennet found Luddendorff irritating on a personal level and thought he was grossly incompetent at understanding the political dynamics of command. That said, he also referred to Ludendorff as "certainly one of the greatest routine military organizers that the world has ever seen," so he wasn't completely biased against the man. I also think Wheeler-Bennet's work can serve as an excellent primary document of the way Ludendorff was perceived by his peers in the German military and political classes. Moreover, much of the characterization of Ludendorff as a relentlessly ambitious, inconsiderate, temperamental, and ultimately ineffective is backed up in references in Hans Mommsens' The Rise and Fall of the Weimar Republic and Karl Dietrich Bracher's The German Dictatorship: The Origins, Structures, and Effects of National Socialism. Both of those later works focus on the transition of Germany from Imperial to Democratic to Fascist rule, and in the process both authors pretty roundly condemn Ludendorff (and Hindenburg) as an overinflated figure tied up in nationalist fictions of conspiracy against Germany. Barbara Tuchman in The Guns of August basically describes the man as a devoted soldier but ultimately a friendless, egotistical asshole. My point is that Ludendorff was not by any means popular amongst his contemporaries - he was tolerated when he was doing good work and tossed aside when he was no longer seen as doing so.
So - what did Ludendorff actually do, and how can we assess it? We could definitely go down a major rabbit hole here, but I find the salient details can be very roughly reduced (in the name of brevity and simplicity) to four points:
EDIT TWO: As u/FredBGC pointed out, it's just Erich Ludendorff, not Erich von Ludendorff; edited to correct.
Bracher, Karl Dietrich. The German Dictatorship: The Origins, Structure, and Effects of National Socialism. Translated by Jean Steinberg. 2nd ed. New York City, NY: Praeger Publishing, 1971.
3. Ludendorff was a self-promoter of unrelenting ambition. He quickly recognized that he could achieve more under the much older Hindenburg by simply making command decisions on his own and by inserting himself into high-level deliberations. When he managed to irritate other powerful figures (such as Falkenhayn or Chancellors Bethmann-Hollweg and Michaelis), Ludendorff leveraged his connection to Hindenburg and offered their joint resignation in protest, knowing that the Kaiser would never sack someone as popular as Hindenburg. Ludendorff also inserted himself into the propaganda and industrial spheres of the war effort, seeking always to be in a decision-making position and portrayed in a positive light. Ultimately, Ludendorff's incessant efforts to get credit for the war effort resulted in his taking the lion's share of the blame when things started to go truly badly for Germany at the end of the war. With the Kaiser pushing for his removal, he again tried the joint resignation trick with Hindenburg, assuming he had the old man's total confidence. Instead, Hindenburg threw Ludendorff under the bus, and the Kaiser accepted only his letter of resignation.
Happy to help Most of the reading and academic work I've done is more about the transition from Weimar to Nazi Germany, but the First World War and its key players/outcomes were obviously hugely important in shaping that context. I really enjoyed looking a little further back than I usually get to.
I’m afraid I’ve also got to nit pick some minor points of /u/itsyoursnow ‘s fabulous answer. Don’t take this as a reflection on the whole post but just some minor squabbling over semantics.
This is a really fantastic overview of the myth of Ludendorff, but I wanted to add something on the real failure of his (and Hindenburg’s) strategic thinking.