You can contact the debtor but I'd be extremely surprised if they were willing to stop the garnishment. They're going to get their money now. Not to sound unsympathetic but your chance to negotiate with them or set up payments was anytime in the last 9 years. I'd figure out how to get some extra money (get a side job, borrow from family or friends, rack up a credit card, get a roommate, or sell some stuff) so you are able to take care of your priorities.
Figure out what your new budget will be, and how you'll live with those conditions. r/personalfinance or r/frugal can help you stretch your budget. If you're really going to be in a bind you might consider taking a loan from your 401K, if you have one.
You might be able to ask the court to reduce the amount that's being garnished from each check, which would extend how long your paychecks are garnished. Depending on how long you expect this to be, and the hardship, it might not be worth it since you'll probably need to hire an attorney to help you with that. Might be just better off to suck it up and deal with it.
One other suggestion, if you have bills you anticipate not being able to pay, contact those folks up front and let them know what's going on. Right now companies are willing to work with folks who have had financial hardships and they may not ask too many questions. I had a need to contact my electric company the other day and they asked me several if I was able to pay the bill, and I said yes that's not even why I'm calling but they seemed like they WANTED to put me into a deferred status. So you may be able to scrounge up some wiggle room there. Of course that's just kicking the can down the road, eventually you'll have to pay it.
Other possible options: settling the debt and ending the garnishment, for a lump sum (usually you have to offer at least half what you owe) and you'd have to figure out where to come up with that money.
Or you can quit your job and find another one, they'll take a while to find you. I know a couple guys who always work cash jobs under the table because they owe so much child support. Not the most ethical of suggestions but if you do this, I'd suggest saving up enough to settle the debt and then reaching back out to the creditor to take care of it. You'll feel much better once this is behind you. Good luck.
Yes. I believe so. To be honest I was 18 and VERY naïve at the time. I had assumed that they would reach out to me in order to set up a payment plan but no contact was ever made. Once the eviction was removed from my background check, I had assumed everything was fine. Clearly, I have no idea what I'm doing.