Although it's always exciting to get involved in a significant other's hobbies and careers (especially if it's an area of mutual interest), they don't exist in a vacuum. Your BF's friends may very well be anxious that your presence is going to alter the group dynamic for the worse, that you'll try to override their creative inputs, or that worst case scenario you're actively trying to drive a wedge between them and your BF so you could have him all to yourself. I'm assuming that's not the case, but people can get awfully protective when it comes to creative passions.
It also sounds like there are some underlying tensions in the group that existed before you were there. These weren't your fault to begin with, but they aren't your problem to fix. Jumping right in and trying to play peacemaker might reinforce the others' negative image they seem to have of you as an interloper, which would just lead to permanent hostility. With regards to those, my advice is to sit back and let it take its course. If these tensions are what ultimately leads to your BF's friend group falling apart, then there's probably nothing you could have done anyway.
The best way to get over this is to interact with the others in a setting outside of the recording sessions where you can all get to know each other. If they come around and realize that you don't have any ill intent in your presence at the sessions or your relationship as a whole, then hopefully they'll be more accepting of your presence, especially if they understand that it was also your BF's idea. How much he chooses to reveal about his reasons is ultimately his decision, but it sounds like he's been close with his friends for a while and they all probably know it.
Thank you for your very thoughtful response, I appreciate it. I have quite a lot of instructions in my book that begin with the word 'imagine' - J likes them quite a lot, and I thought you might like this one::
In my conceptual art book Grapefruit, I had a little thing called 'Wriggle Piece' which might serve as good advice for you:
All I'm saying is "I'm Gonna Knock On Your Door" was better than anything that hack of a boyfriend of yours managed to fart out. Actually, what the heck \do\ you see in him, lady!?
Those guys FUCKING SUCK! The kind of lads who stab you in the back because they are too cowardly to tell if to your face.