So it appears that the biggest issue here is not the amount that you are being paid but how many months you will be paid. It sounds like their years run for the school year, September through August. Did they ever say that their pay years were not September through August?
Yes, that isn’t the issue tho. The issue is that original salary letter stated $4500 as the going monthly rate, and that was incorrect. Yet didn’t notify me about this until March. I stated that I don’t care about the prorating, it’s the not communicating this and allowing me to sign a contract on faulty salary information.
You started mid year, (halfway through the school year) so your prorated salary is 28k. There are 8 pay periods (months) remaining in the year. 28k/8=3.5k per month.
Were you under the impression you were going to be paid 54k for working the second half of the school year?
There does not appear to be any discrepancy between your offer letter and what you are getting paid, just you interpreted something incorrectly.
Not under the impression that I would be making 54k for half the year, but at least making the going monthly rate for someone with the same experience and education.
You believe that you should be paid the same monthly rate as teachers working the full year. Those same teachers will believe (and rightly should) be paid twice the amount over the course of the year than a teacher that works only half the year.
So the question you need to ask yourself: if you worked 1/2 the year, should you receive 1/2 the pay as someone who worked the full school year?
But what did the contract itself say, 54,600? The offer letter is one thing but the contract's language is important here. If they don't match, then getting that rectified needs to happen prior to signing. But also it doesn't appear that you have damages. Can you elaborate on the contract's language?
That's your error then. You should be thinking of it on an annual level not a monthly level because your 9 months of pay is spread out over 12 months.
Not a teacher, how does 3,506 x 12 equal anything other than 42,072? That's 12,528 less than 54,600. Yes some of this may be on you for not noticing the issue with the paycheck sooner, but are you still getting 54,600 per year in either scenario? The prorating part doesn't really matter, if in both scenarios you get 54,600. Do the other teachers get paid with the same prorating? Hard to see if there's actually a legal issue here, there may not be. "Do I have a basis for complaint? Is HR in the wrong here?" may not be legal questions.
That’s not even the issue tho. The issue is: does HR have any culpability here since they offered me one salary, when in reality my actual salary was less and then didn’t tell me about it for 2 months?
Culpability perhaps, but not sure if a legal sense they do. In a legal sense would mean they owe you money for example.
Which (again, if I'm still understanding this) said "Gross Annual Salary: $54,600." If the contract was for 12 months, and the contract also said $54,600 then you may be owed something. But to be clear, you agree you getting paid the correct amount of money, but your issue is that it is being spread over 8 months not 6?
Not so much “agree” as I “understand why” they would prorate my salary. My underlying issue is the lack of communication regarding this change and being offered an incorrect amount in the first place. Like, i assume a competent HR person would be knowledgable of the districts pay policies.