This was a really popular question but I just couldn't get to it right away, so I thought maybe some of you would be interested still:
Fair warning, my answer focuses on the creation of "the lesbian community" (including the exclusions that implied/implies) and lesbian culture in the pivotal 1970s. But LGBTQ+ history is very dominated by studies of cis gay men, so I thought it would be nice to offer at least one of the different perspectives.
Welcome folks to another exemplary edition of the Sunday Digest Only the finest collection of history threads available this weekend. We’ve got a great line up this week, with some truly fantastic work from flairs and non flairs alike I’m away next weekend, so next week will be both late and not nearly as big. So enjoy this while you can, and I’m counting on some of you readers/lurkers to post up your favorite threads next Sunday!
As per my usual spiel, don’t forget to check out our regular features, upvote your favorite writers, and have yourself a fantastic week. Particular shout out this week to the diligent folks who’ve been posting links to older answers to help answer threads. I’ve noticed lots of you this last week. Keep it up, and considering trying out for a FAQ Finder flair if you do it regularly.
Check out the bangin’ , and I want to draw everyones attention to . /u/almost_useless has been hard at work making their extension even better! So if your tired of seeing that high comment count, only to find nothing in thread, you should absolutely check it out and give it a spin.
From the glory of /u/Iphikrates we have [I'm an Athenian hoplite marine during the Golden Age. Am I still wearing the heavy "traditional" panoply, or have my armorers devised lighter equivalents suitable for unorthodox combat atop triremes, swimming, and boarding?
We’re also pretty lucky that Iphikrates was able to handle Because the rules are vague when it comes to removing Polis type questions.
It’s been posted here already, but I’m a wild card who posts what I want, so here’s the fascinating post in.
/u/Red_Galiray had a brilliant answer to With a very good additional post from /u/secessionisillegal as well.
Charge into this thread to see /u/Dekarch handle Imperial Guard players everywhere salivate a bit hearing that particular order….
/u/XenophonTheAthenian spent a great deal of time and a number of posts on Along with some good follow ups from /u/LegalAction.
There was a brilliant answer from /u/keyilan in You should run click as fast as you can to see what they have to say.