In her (excellent) book Real Enemies: Conspiracy theories and American democracy, historian Kathryn Olmsted argues that Oswald's primary motivation was his desire to kill a prominent anti-communist. LHO had been committed to communism for quite some time, even during his time in the USMC. The FBI had been watching LHO for years and had concluded that he was a "violent, unstable sociopath prone to ideological extremism" \[Olmsted, 114\]. He had, however, become disillusioned with Soviet communism after his sojourn in Minsk from 1959 to 1962 and increasingly viewed Fidel Castro as the future of the ideology.
And as Olmsted notes, what's frequently left out of discussions around Oswald is his other assassination attempts. For example, earlier in 1963 he attempted (with the same rifle used in Dallas later that year) to kill Edwin A Walker, a retired general and extreme anti-communist. Oswald also wished to go to Cuba and (rather oddly) back to the USSR, but was stonewalled by Havana in his attempts to get a visa. At least part of his motivation for assassinating a noted anti-communist (JFK being in that category for LHO), was to 'prove' his ideological bona fides and commitment to 'the cause'.
I think (and I'm trying to recall here, because I don't have the sources in front of me right now), that Havana and Moscow were both concerned that LHO was mad, a CIA plant, or both. Unfortunately, a lot of my books are locked away in an office I can't access because of COVID!
Do we know why Havana didn't want to grant him a visa? Given the second part of this statement, I would think it's more "this guy is a bit off and we don't want that" vs. him not being enough of a committed comunist.
Thanks, although I think I was a little brief in my response! I really would recommend Olmsted's work on this.
I'd heartily recommend Olmsted's work on this. And the books is a great piece of work in general, and well worth reading. Michael Barkun, Joseph Ucsinski, Peter Knight, and Mark White have also done good work on the assassination and its surrounding context.
There's a degree to which historians sometimes shy away from the assassination, for fairly obvious reasons. But, there's also a tendency in popular discourses to sideline or ignore the assassination's political context in favour of more dramatic aspects. A good example is Lee Harvey Oswald's communism. Another is the wider, global Cold War context. For example, Lyndon B. Johnson was fully aware of the CIA's attempts to kill Fidel Castro. When JFK was killed, he feared that the Cubans had got to Kennedy first, and was deeply concerned that the killing might provoke a nuclear war. By contrast, in Moscow, the Kremlin leadership were terrified that the assassination might be the first stage of a right-wing coup in the USA. They feared an extreme anti-communist takeover of the White House and the chance - like LBJ - of superpower nuclear war. There's so much context to the events in Dallas that gets left out.