Assuming the tanks appear on a Ukrainian training field tomorrow the average training cycle is 6-22 weeks on M1 Abrams. Russia is expected to launch their next major offensive within the next eight weeks or so.
With this current timeline the Ukrainians won’t be ready for a counteroffensive of their own until June.
While I am confident that the Russians will continue to make strategic blunders there is a very real concern that Ukrainians manning the Leopards and M1’s will only have the bare minimum amount of training whereas the Russians have been training in late model T-80’s and T-90’s since early November.
This is absolute bullshit, it doesn't take 3 months for an experienced tank crew to learn a new model. A few weeks is sufficient.
It's also that there is lot of training, logistics, learning from the battlefield. It would be terrible to send them hundreds of tanks and have them captured by the Russians.
Yes deliveries starting 3 months from now for Germany’s 12 tanks is ridiculous. People need to seriously consider the long term / permanent consequences of Ukraine losing this war.
Nothing, which is why everyone with a clue was advocating for giving Ukraine all the weapons they asked for since March (including jets, tanks, long range missiles, air defense systems etc). Western leaders were just too fearful and indecisive to go all in. We're still putting up arbitrary and unreasonable barriers to helping them, but at least it's not nearly as bad now.
So the West is sending them a few of them first, let them finding their way with it. Once the Ukrainians will demonstrate full capacity with it, I'm pretty sure they will have more.
Confirmed from Germany are 14 tanks, in total we are talking about 42 confirmed from different countries.. Training does not take 3 months. It takes 2-4 weeks. Organising international training takes some time and then travel time so let’s say a month from now. Still NOT 3 months. You just can’t justify the timeframe. It’s almost as if they left enough time to come up with some excuse and go back on the pledge - Germany has a history of this.
Who said it’s exactly the same? You’re making it out that Ukrainians need months of training like as if they never saw anything other than soviet stuff that is older than most of them.
The logistics can be worked out while the Ukrainian crews are training abroad. Tanks have been delivered to Ukraine before, I’m pretty sure they don’t need to reinvent the wheel for these deliveries. And deliveries will BEGIN in 3 months, which means someone somewhere will start scratching their heads about delivery in 2,5 months from now.
It does not take that long, especially when there are crews who already trained on various western tanks. ukrainian troops have been trained by NATO armies with NATO weapons etc for years. It didn’t start with this war.
You forget that Sweden also isn’t a NATO member yet. You also forget that russia downed international flights that had nothing to do with Ukraine other than flying through Ukrainian airspace or that they attacked government organisations like the NHS, they meddled in the US election in 2016 and so on. And then there are the actual physical attacks on people in foreign countries. How emboldened would russia be after they win this war?! People were killed in the UK and US. That would escalate tenfold.
If russia does NOT win, they will have their own internal conflicts. You can already see the cracks. The mil blogger community has lashed out against the Kremlin. Kadyrov and Prygozhin will probably all move against the current political elite and that won’t be comfortable. They are doing a good job at sending all fighting age men from territories that are ethnically not russian into the meat grinder but it does not mean those territories won’t seek independence from russia is russia loses the war. And there is a chance that russia will be completely isolated, dropped even by Iran and North Korea and China stepping away from supplying them under the table.
Also training could have been started before they announced actually giving these tanks to Ukraine as one major concern was (allegedly) that Ukr tank crews are not trained on these.
I edited my previous comment and added a link with a comment from someone who probably knows shit about this that training can be as short as 4 weeks. Again, not “beginning to deliver” in 3 months.