Just give her a thirty day written notice to vacate and evict when she didn't leave. She is a tenant and the landlord (your father) cannot regulate her getting a job or not doing drugs (outside the house).
But since she is technically considered "month-to-month" can he not give her 30-day notice of non-renewal, as he does not have to have a reason to not renew the her staying there?
I know if you do not have a lease, they do not have to continue letting you stay, and can ask you to move, as long as given the 30 day notice. Had a friend that had it happen to, their landlord just did not want to rent to them after their "lease" was up, and gave them 30 day notice to move.
Also, I was told by a law student (not Ohio, though), that my father could negotiate new "terms" for her staying past that 30 days...and that if she agrees to those terms to be able to stay, they would be enforceable...and that laws regarding family and/or technically "renting" out part of the house you reside in, is a bit different than if my father simply owned the house and was renting it out and he's not living there.
Yes he can change the terms with 30 days written notice. No he cannot have terms that include drug testing and/or employment. He can charge rent.
Also, we did give her a 30 day notice to leave...just in general...at first. Then she started bawling about not having anywhere to go...and asking for another chance. My Dad, I love him, but he's a softie...and that was his requirements to her for "another chance" to not have to leave past those 30 days, was that she get a job and drug test Mon/Wed/Fri.
If she has it is doing drugs in the home he can call the police to have them start her/desk with it and use that as grounds to evict her.
Edited to add...not all of her drug use is out of the house. There have been times she has been home, was "sober", had not left the house, and then was acting like she was under the influence of something. So, my father and I have reasonable suspicion that she has been using at his place and potentially have those substances there. And reading Ohio law, for reasonable drug suspicion or evidence on it...only requires a 3 day vacate notice.
Your father likely won't do any of that because he doesn't want to knowingly make his child homeless. So know that likely she will continue to live there and do what she wants.
She is not biologically his, but we did not find out until she was past 18. There have been other issues...such as money and money orders coming up missing, his groceries being taken, etc...that have resulted in the original 30 day notice.
The final issue is that my father is dependent on us for care, and cannot get up and walk without help. Even though I do not live with him, have a full time job and a kid...I have been handling 100% of his care. She lives with him, has no children, or no job...and getting her to help is like pulling teeth. She was responsible for him this past Monday, and pulled what would equal medical neglect and elder abuse. Did not give him his meds, did not give him dinner or insulin/meds to go with it, and left him home alone with no help. I only found out because he called me on his cell at 8p asking me to come give him food and tylenol because he was in pain. I asked him why she wasn't giving it to him, he said he called out, no answer from her, he did not know where she was, and only knew to call me. I called her, and she had left to help a friend move. I had to leave my son's baseball game (thankfully his father was there), to go take care of him...and I ended up bringing him to my place with his meds and essentials.
He is to the point that he told her this was her last chance, and told her he was ONLY willing to let her stay if she got a job within the 30 days, and took the drug testing. I do have a medical and financial POA on my father, and I handle his bills. He did give me permission to evict her, on his behalf, if she did not improve.