It is commonly assumed that if a person dies with a joint bank account, the surviving account holder automatically takes over sole possession of the account, and the account bypasses the probate of the decedent account holder’s estate.
“Under Massachusetts law, the question of whether a bank account ultimately belongs to the co-owner of the account following decedent’s death, or whether it should be part of the decedent’s estate, is a question of fact. The considerations that courts examine in answering the question are the following:
4. Who kept possession of passbooks for the account. If the decedent kept possession of the passbooks (and passbooks, until recently, were commonly used for certificate of deposit accounts), then this would support an argument that the account should be part of the estate.
Disputes over these bank accounts usually arise when the executor or administrator of a decedent’s estate also happens to be the surviving joint account holder. In such instance the appropriate remedy is for the heirs of the estate (who presumably would have divided up the proceeds of the account were it to have gone through the probate process) to sue the executor or administrator in what is known as an “equity” proceeding.”.
What is the reason that the state denied your petition (did you mean to say that a judge denied your petition) to become personal representative?
One option could be for you to ask a probate attorney to serve as executor (the executor fee would be 1% of estate value plus perhaps other miscellaneous fees--find out what the attorney would charge). The executor fee and any other outstanding debts (if there are any) will be deducted (assuming that the $3K is deposited in a new account called the estate account), and whatever funds are left over will go to you.
Does the $4K estate value include the $3K in the joint account or is the $4K estate value separate from the $3K bank account?
It would be an error or faux-pas to continue discussing this with the magistrate since their opinion about your case has already been given. They are not supposed to be contacted except in an actual court proceeding.
Thank you for your very detailed and informative post. There is no POD designation. My petition for informal probate was denied "Because any heirs are unknown". My understanding was that because I was named the sole beneficiary in the will that this did not matter. He had an estranged sister and 2 nieces who are all very grateful I cared for him the final few years of his life. Answers to the 4 questions: 1. I paid the decadents rent and health care/ other expenses from the joint account. It was opened previous to me being added to it. The decadent was bedridden and could not conduct business on his own. 2. Interest was paid to the account and not to me personally. 3. I made no withdrawals for my personal needs. 4. I had possession of all passbooks, debit cards, etc associated with the account. Thankfully I had the foresight to prepay for his funeral expenses or he would not have been buried yet or at least his wishes would not have been honored. That would have been a shame, he was a veteran and I wanted him to be laid to rest with dignity. I continue to try and do the right thing where others wouldn't, the courts are just so difficult to navigate. I have contacted the magistrate who made the decision to reject my petition, hopefully he can shed some light on how it can get sorted. I just want to be made whole, this amount of money isn't worth a protracted battle. Thanks again.
1. The decedent’s intention in opening the account. That is, did the decedent place the co-owner on the account for the convenience of the decedent, or did he/she do so to allow the co-owner to use the account in the same manner as the decedent.
It might also help your case if you could hire the services of a local genealogist to do a family history research report to verify that you are his only surviving next-of-kin and then it would be documented.
You still need to have the genealogist's report done so that you can identify whether there are ANY surviving next-of-kin (they don't have to fit your definition of "immediate family" or not--even if they are distantly related to him they would still qualify legally to inherit IF there is anything left over after the executor and you (as beneficiary) and any outstanding debts are paid.