In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
If ILT becomes cemented in place, then the legislature has no method of being held accountable for however they want to appoint candidates to federal office.
And they'll have the legal mechanism to do it once Moore v. Harper is ruled on, and ISL theory becomes law of the land.
Yeah, but we saw enough state control move blue in the recent election that the GQP doesn't have the power to pull off a coup. Michigan went all blue, Wisconsin governor stayed blue, Arizona governor is blue, etc. etc. etc.
Alaska BTW, is weird to say the least. Pre-election their House of Representatives had a majority coalition of 15 Democrats, 4 independents, and 2 Republicans, while the state Senate had a Republican majority that included 1 Democrat in coalition. Post election the House is still being determined, but now the Senate has a split party coalition for sure.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
You haven't been watching . As of right now, only three states (Virginia, Alaska, and Pennsylvania) have split legislatures, and Republicans 269 electoral votes worth with their current crop of states. Only Alaska and New Hampshire haven't had results come in yet.
So we stand a very real chance of a 269-269 tie if Republicans choose to throw out the results in states where the control the legislature.
What terrifies me at that point is the prospect for state government endorsed violence against communities that typically vote Democrat. When the state isn't accountable to a group, they tend to brutalize them with impunity.
The core of ILT is that the federal constitution grants the state legislature sole and complete control over appointing candidates to federal office. Such appointments are not subject to the governor's veto or judicial review, and do not even need to abide by the state constitution.
While I don't trust most Republicans as far as I can throw them, a minority at the very least support Democracy (either for ideological reasons, or because they're in swing districts and need to be seen by Dems and independents as not-evil). So in all probability in a lot of states you would need a Republican supermajority to actually override the election results, because some Republicans would join Democrats to uphold Democracy.