If it were not for immigrants our economy would be in the toilet now. They literally keep the wheels turning. Ukrainians are some of the hardest working people you can find. Politicians talk tough about the border but they never do anything since they know their corporate sponsors need the cheap labor to keep the doors open. That's where we need unions so they are not abused.
“With such a major shift in refugee policy, will other countries step up to become leaders in resettlement? It's unlikely that any will take in refugees at the volume that America once did because no other resettlement program is quite like the one in the U.S.
Either that number is wrong (like missing a zero) or someone should better source their data before writing an article. Turkey alone is housing 3.6 million Syrian war refugees. My country (Germany) has also taken in more than 3 million war refugees since the 90s alone. About 450k from the Balkans, 290k from Afghanistan, 180k from Iraq 920k from Ukraine, 830k from Syria and about 340k from different African countries.
Even during a year when resettlement policy shifted dramatically, UNHCR numbers indicate that the U.S. still topped the list of resettlement countries in 2017: it resettled 24,599 individuals referred by the UN agency; more than Canada at 8,912, and the UK, which took in 6,202.”.
this is based off of official UNHCR refugees, not just asylum seekers, which sounds like the number you’re using for Germany. Even then, the US has over 50 million immigrants, which is more than half of Germany’s population, so I would estimate the US has well over 3 million asylum seekers as well - especially given that 2.1 million people applied at the border last year alone.
No I'm using the number of refugees, asylum seekers is even higher. I'm also convinced that the USA has taken in the most refugees due to it's size alone but the numbers can definitely not be correct, there must be a mistake somewhere.
It’s not just the US, it’s pretty much any place where Ukrainians were accepted under protection visas - those visas have expiration dates and people just don’t know what’s next for them. It can be difficult to get actual permanent residency through available general-stream immigration visas almost anywhere.