"Fair" in the context of an agreement like this is anything you're both willing to accept. There's no objective standard at that level. If you don't feel that the offer is fair, then it's not fair. You and your intended each get to make that assessment, for yourselves, and nobody can tell you otherwise.
Also, what is a "substantial asset"? I'm assuming it's a separate asset, or basically a non-marital asset. I've been trying to find a definition on Google but I can't seem to figure it out.
IANAL so I won't talk about the actual contract or enforceability, but I am a startup founder so perhaps I can give some perspective on what is "fair". Retaining equity in your startup can be the difference between having control of your company and not having control. If you don't own at least 51% of your company then the people who do can come together to kick you out of your own business. In a situation in which you break up and he holds say, 60% of the equity, you and his investors would now have a controlling stake in the business, which you could use to kick him out.
A prenup which attempts to keep substantial assets which would otherwise be marital assets, such as your respective incomes from regular employment or the growth of the value of a business, as separate assets is a clear signal that your intended only views your needs as important so long as they serve the marriage. That agreement may or may not hold up, but _you should understand what you're agreeing to_, and you should make your own decision as to whether you want to be married to someone who sees you that way. You and your intended need to talk this through and figure out if you have common goals or, if not, what you want to do about it.
Until the two of you come to a consensus, it would be premature to get a lawyer involved to write the final agreement, but you can also get a lawyer to review your negotiations so far and advise you - the Law Society of Ontario has a referral service.
Ultimately only you can say what is acceptable, but just remember that the alternative where he doesn't want to start a company and doesn't want a prenup has less financial reward, selfishly speaking.
I just mean anything of sufficient value to actually spend the effort on. Something worth a few thousand a year is pretty meaningless in the grand scheme; something worth half your annual income is very important.
Being booted from your own startup prematurely is the eternal fear of every startup founder. Ultimately, he's offering to split anything he buys with money from the company for the two of you.
I'm biased, but the way I'd look at it is that as a founder of a successful company he would be paying himself above market rate than if he went to work at a corporate job. If you'd be fine with him working a corporate desk job at a big company and a 50/50 split of those assets, you'd be financially better off in a situation where you sign the prenup and he's very successful than if he had no intention to start a company at all.
Title: My boyfriend (21M) and I (24F) are discussing a potential prenup, and I'm not sure if it's fair or logical?
Oh wow, I hadn't even considered that he would need to own at least 51% to maintain control. Don't get me wrong, I would never want to cheat him out of his business, or screw him over in the event of a divorce. Although, it's easier for me to say that now when everything's sunshine and rainbows vs. during a divorce when things are hostile and rough. I understand the purpose of a prenup, and I completely support him protecting his future business. My biggest concern is that the distribution of property, equity, assets, etc is equitable in the event of a divorce, which I already thought divorce laws ensured? I know the state of Florida is an "equitable distribution" state rather than a "community property" state, which I believe would put him at an advantage in the divorce (relative to the community property state divorce laws).