At most you have a duty to allow her to retrieve the items, but even that would be subject to reasonable scheduling. You have no obligation to gather and prep the items for her. It may be more comfortable for you to do this so she is not going through your things, but ultimately your only duty is to allow her to retrieve them. It would not be an issue for you to shoot her a text back saying that due to the late notice, you cannot guarantee that you will have the items out and ready for her, but you will allow her access to the house to gather what she wants to take back immediately from X time to Y time and would be willing to arrange for her to retrieve the remainder at a later time. If the items are not easily accessible and you will not have the ability to make them so by tomorrow evening, it's fair to cite that in your text and tell her she needs to provide you with more notice so that you can make it possible for her to retrieve the items.
Then it would be perfectly fine for you to let her know that the items are not currently accessible and she did not provide you with enough notice for you to make them accessible before she departs. Let her know you would be willing to reschedule for a future time or would be willing to work with her to make alternate arrangements (at cost to the estate if shipping) for her to take possession of the items.
Your only legal risk would be if you were to be seen to be intentionally withholding the items from her or unreasonably denying her access to them. If you make it clear in writing that you are more than willing to cooperate with reasonable efforts to transfer the items, you should be fine.
Document /keep records of your contact with her as proof that she was unreasonable in her request . Best of luck.
You don't have to bend over backwards for scheduling either. She gave you late notice, so I would give her a timeframe on Friday evening if you are going to be home as a goodwill gesture, but if it doesn't work you are well within your rights to insist on reasonable scheduling at another time.
Anything else the sister would need a court order to force you to hand over. I would advise her that you would be happy to box up the items and ship them at the estate’s expense, or offer a different time for her to come back.