1 Master sergeant/first sergeant Chief petty officer Sergeant major/master gunnery sergeant/master sergeant/first sergeant/master technical sergeant/quartermaster sergeant/paymaster sergeant/master steward/master cook $138.00 $144.90 $151.80.
5 Corporal/technician 5th grade Unrated man, first class Corporal/ass't. cook/field musician corporal $66.00 $69.30 $72.60.
American soldiers were quite well-paid in comparison to civilians. The United States Army (including the Army Air Forces), Navy, and the Marine Corps all utilized the same pay scale in WWII.
I previously answered a question regarding the pay of American soldiers during WWII , but I'll paste it below; the sources include further information so I have retained them. The reply to this comment will detail efforts the U.S. government took to defray the domestic expenses of their military personnel, many of whom would otherwise be in no position to make the voluntary choice to serve because of their resulting financial situation, or the financial situation of persons dependent upon them. As a part of the induction process, soldiers were given the opportunity to designate allotments of pay, which were deducted from their wages and used to deal with domestic expenses while the soldier was in service.
After the passage of the on 16 June 1942 which redefined the pay scales of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast Guard, the average American serviceman of the lowest pay grade who was single made a base pay of $50.00 per month, or $600.00 per year before any spending. Accounting for the man being in the military, (and not having to pay taxes if their yearly income was under $1,500.00, or buy luxury or necessity items that were provided automatically in most cases by the military such as food, clothes or soap) that would scale out to a net annual pay of about $3,600.00 "civilian" dollars in 1944. In 1944, an annual income of $3,600.00 was more than 80 percent of all single workers in the United States.
For the below chart I've used U.S. Army, Navy, and Marine Corps ranks as an example, and copied the pay scales up to six or nine years. The Marines split their ranks up into a bewildering array of sub-designations at each pay grade just like the Navy; as there's less than the Navy, I chose to list them.
On September 22, 1942, in Change 3 of AR 600-35, the rank of first sergeant was moved from Grade 2 to Grade 1; this chart reflects that change.
WWII US monthly base pay at each rank to six or nine years, effective from June 1, 1942 to June 30, 1946:
Pay grade (enlisted men)/pay period (officers) Army Navy Marine Corps Under 3 years' service After 3 years After 6 years After 9 years.
6 Private first class Unrated man, second class Private first class/field musician 1st class/steward's ass't. 2nd class $54.00 $56.70 $59.40.
4 Sergeant/technician 4th grade Petty officer, third class Sergeant/field musician sergeant/field cook/steward 3rd class/cook 3rd Class $78.00 $81.90 $85.80.
3 Staff sergeant/technician 3rd grade Petty officer, second class Staff sergeant/platoon sergeant/chief cook/steward 2nd class/cook 2nd class $96.00 $100.80 $105.60.
2 Technical sergeant Petty officer, first class Technical sergeant/gunnery sergeant/drum major/technical sergeant/supply sergeant/steward 1st class/cook 1st class $114.00 $119.70 $131.10.
For each three years in service, up to a maximum of thirty years, a soldier's base pay was increased five percent based upon the amount of previous pay. For example, a private who had a base pay of $50.00 per month for his first three years would then earn $52.50 per month during his 3rd to 6th years, and $55.00 during his 6th to 9th years in service.
For several officer ranks' three-year service periods (like above), the pay, along with that of a rank above or below, is boosted to end up matching. To effect the "match," a pay increase of more than 5 percent happens in that period. The next 3-year period pay increase is also then more than 5 percent. After that, the scale returns to normal with the rank above making more. This seems to be a function of time in service. See my fourth link for an overview of the whole pay chart where you can see the matches and how they "progressed" through the chart.
Soldiers holding any of the five general officer ranks received a base pay and did not experience this five-percent increase, no matter how many years they served. If an officer stayed at a rank for a set amount of time, (5 years for 2nd lieutenants or equivalent, 10 years for 1st lieutenants or equivalent, 17 years for captains or equivalent, 23 years for majors or equivalent, and 30 years for lieutenant colonels or equivalent) he was then entitled to the pay of the next-highest officer rank.
If a soldier had dependents, such as children, a wife, brothers or sisters, or parents he needed to support, he would receive additional pay; see my third link for the complicated chart. For service overseas, including in Alaska, base pay at each rank was increased 20 percent.
If a soldier was awarded the Medal of Honor, the Distinguished Service Cross, the Distinguished Service Medal, or the Soldier's Medal, he would earn an extra $2.00 per month. Each additional award of the above medals netted another $2.00 bonus per month.
Air Corps men who were qualified to fly or took regular flights received an additional pay per month amounting to 50 percent of their base pay. Enlisted paratroopers or paratroopers-in-training received an additional pay of $50.00 per month, no matter their base pay; officers received $100.00. This is what you were alluding to. Glider troops initially did not receive the $50.00 or $100.00 hazard pay. After various assaults proved that landing via glider was just as dangerous, if not more dangerous, than parachuting, a hazard pay of $25.00 per month for enlisted glider troops and $50.00 for officers was instituted.
Subsections (b) and (c) of section 105 of the SDAA defined the amount of the government contribution:
On 17 October 1940, President Roosevelt signed into law the . In the act, "provisions [were] made for the temporary suspension of legal proceedings and transactions which may prejudice the civil rights of persons in [military] service during the period herein specified over which this Act remains in force." The act, which had no provisions for expiry and is still in effect today as the Servicemembers' Civil Relief Act, provided broad legal latitude for servicemen who were on active duty to postpone or waive participation in court appearances, collections of garnishments of property and/or wages, or, debts. Servicemen could also not be evicted from their residence if it was occupied by their wives, children, or other persons dependent upon them for support, and the rent or mortgage payment did not exceed $80.00 per month; the rent or mortgage obligation had to have been entered prior to the passage of the act.
The below chart includes the total allowance paid, i.e., the portion contributed by the serviceman and the portion paid by the government, in "typical cases:".
On 23 June 1942, President Roosevelt signed into law the (hereafter SDAA). Personnel of the top three enlisted pay grades (e.g., in the Army, staff sergeant/technician third grade, technical sergeant, and master sergeant/first sergeant) were already given the option of a rental allowance or quarters furnished by the U.S. government. The SDAA allowed soldiers, sailors, and marines of the lower four enlisted pay grades (e.g., in the Army, private, private first class, corporal/technician fifth grade, and sergeant/technician fourth grade) who were in the active military service of the United States on or after 1 June 1942 and had dependents to send them a portion of their wages, exclusive of other allotments which had been made. This portion was supplemented by an additional allowance paid by the U.S. government, with the total calculated through a sliding scale based upon the number and type of dependents the serviceman had. The law defined two classes of dependents. Class A dependents were wives, un-remarried divorced wives to whom alimony was payable, and children. Class B dependents were parents, brothers, sisters, and grandchildren. The definition of “children,” “grandchildren,” “brothers,” and “sisters” were limited to unmarried people under eighteen years of age, but if they were mentally or physically handicapped and/or incapable of self-support and unmarried, there was not an age limit.
In the Army, the family allowances system was administered by the Office of Dependency Benefits in the War Department. By the middle of 1943, the funds paid out under the SDAA were deemed to have become the “nucleus of home security for the dependents of a great majority of our servicemen.”.
follow up: how did they actually handle the act of paying bills if they didn't have a wife and lived on their own before joining/being drafted? did they just ask someone at the bank, or a friend, or distant family member to handle it? I suppose it was probably rare for someone to own a house while not married, though.