So your professor goes on says "Read the module" and then says nothing for the rest of however long your lesson is supposed to be?
The prof just shows me the modules like general view of the titles and show the pages each for not more than 30 seconds. Then tell me I can read it and dismiss the class. Just this Thurs our class sched is 1-6 and it was conducted for only 15 mins.
NAL but I am a teacher. You can’t sue your professor for not teaching if they meet with you and provide you class material. Teachers, especially professors, have autonomy when it comes to how they teach students. Some teachers rely heavily on independent work while others rely on group work or kinesthetic activities.
What you’re describing here does, in fact, sound like teaching, just not necessarily the way that you as an individual learn.
First, I would advise talking to your teacher. Since you’re asking about legal things, I would suggest sending any communication through email. You can request permission to record sessions for any reason, including studying purposes. Tell them you don’t feel like you are learning or getting out of the class what is intended. They will probably make some sort of adjustment for you. Ask them to discuss with you to help you. If you don’t talk to the professor first, you won’t get anywhere. If not, you could escalate it to the Dean of your school. At the very least, you’d have emails showing you told the professor this method of teaching is not working for you. Now, the Dean can respond however they want. Most likely they will side with the professor because they can’t make them teach a certain way. They can only see if they’re teaching the required materials and standards for the course.
But legally, there’s not much you can do as long as they are providing learning material and meet with you on a class session.
It was mentioned before that the time allotted for classes are for discussions by the university admin. This prof actually do discuss on large classes so it seems unfair since I am also a regular student and pays the tuition fee.
I do not want to sue the prof for not teaching but instead I want to be ready to have things that back up my statements because the prof has a history of turning the tables. So, what if I'm the one who gets sued for misleading information or disturbance to their emotional state cz I don't have proof? If that is a thing. Also this prof somehow gets offended easily even though I phrased the message in a nicest and most respectful possible way. Thank you.
But back up your statements for what? Are you failing the class or something? Do you not understand the material? Is there something you don’t understand? Do you ask questions for the professor to answer?
Your professor is teaching you and as long as they are there live for a discussion, the university is probably going to ignore you. Are you wanting them to initiate it? If it were me, I would hold class sessions for the student to complete work and be there to answer questions. You can’t really have a discussion on a topic when one party is educated on it and the other isn’t. Why not so discussion questions or ask the professor to explain the module as you walk through it?