In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
"The atmosphere of division my grandfather created in the Trump family is the water in which Donald has always swum, and division continues to benefit him at the expense of everybody else. It’s wearing the country down, just as it did my father, changing us even as it leaves Donald unaltered. It’s weakening our ability to be kind or believe in forgiveness, concepts that have never had any meaning for him. His administration and his party have become subsumed by his politics of grievance and entitlement." - Too Much And Never Enough.
No shit! The republican election deniers admit privately that they know it's not true. It's just a tool to win elections. It's the followers who are the believers (although I suspect even the followers know it's not real, they just want their guy to win).
It does, but that’s because the rise of Nazism was every bit as stupid and banal as the modern Republican Party.
The worst people in Germany saw the Weimar Republic as weak and that they could take advantage of it by appealing to the worst instincts of the public. It always was a party full of grifters, careerists, and sycophants.
I understand why they believe it was stolen. A lie has repeatedly been spread by all of the authority figures of the MAGA republicans. This is just the lie taking root. It's not difficult to suss out.
You can fucking thank the asshole Joe Rogan for the kitty litter shit. In the end these people will claim they didn't know it was serious, and that people could end up dying for it. They are useful idiots using stochastic terrorism. Joe Rogan is an enabler of evil.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
There is definitely an authoritarian streak among young leftists, but the problem is a much less urgent one. The extreme left is less violent, less organized, less funded, and much farther away from the levers of power. (For a historical parallel, Germans were absolutely right not to trust the KPD, which was practically run out of Moscow, but they never were the threat the Nazis were.).
The Nazis are evil super geniuses in the movies, but they were seen as crude and vulgar at the time.
I’m afraid that once a political party decides that cheating is justified, democracy is doomed. It’s a terminal cancer.