First of all, the sense of the word tyrant have evolved since medieval times. It originates from Greek and originally meant someone that came to power out of legitimate ways, such as succession or election. With time it acquired the idea of absolute power and, finally, of oppression. Yet the Greeks, in general, did not see tyrants as necessarily "evil". It was, rather, one form of government, although probably not the best even by their standards. It is only with time that the word tyrant acquired its meaning of oppressing, dictatorial rule.
That is important, because medieval and Renaissance philosopher, surrounded and very fond of classical authors, may very well refer to the classical sense of tyranny.
Now, if you apply that prism to their discourse, you will see that it generally does not aim at kings, for they came to power via legitimate ways (in this case, succession). Therefore, they are not "textbook" tyrants, for the lack one key component : illegitimacy.
Now for the second misconception, I'll send you , to an answer I've already written on the subject. The general idea, though, is that medieval kings would likely not really be considered tyrants, even by our modern standards. Their power was far less absolute than what we like to imagine and they had to deal with many counter-powers : nobility, administration, Church, deputies of the bourgeoisie, ... That would of course differ from one place to another, so keep in mind I'm speaking mostly about medieval France here.
One key element of the tyrant classical definition that we overlooked earlier is the idea that the tyrant, although he doesn't abolish laws, keeps himself above them. They do not really apply to him. That is NOT the case for French king (and English king were rather less absolute rulers). Laws, customs, rights and local specificity were to be respected, even by the king.
I'll give you an example, too. In early XVth century France, the king Charles VI is stricken by madness. He has prolonged periods of delirium and depression, with short remission periods in between. Therefore, the kingdom is ruled by his "private council" : top nobles and administrators. In this council, two men oppose each other. Louis d'Orléans, the king's brother, and Jean de Bourgogne, the king's cousin. They are the two wealthiest and most powerful lords of France at the time.
Since the king is not dead and his very person is sacred, he can not be removed from office, and no regent can be appointed. Therefore, he who controls the council controls the kingdom, and specifically the lucrative pensions that can be generously granted to himself.
At the beginning, the scales weighs in favor of Louis d'Orléans, who manages to assert his control on the council. Civil war is avoided in 1405, but the tension remains extreme.
In 1407, Louis d'Orléans is assassinated in a trap in the middle of Paris. The assassins are tracked back to the house of the Jean de Bourgogne, who rides out of the capital in haste.
He is summoned by the council and the king to be judged, and he finally comes. But with him is Jean Petit, a theologian from the Sorbonne. Jean Petit has redacted an "Apology of tyrannicide". In this speech, he explains that indeed Louis d'Orléans was a tyrant, considering himself above the laws, acting against the will of the king, favoring his own interest rather than the people's and generally trying to gather absolute power. Therefore, he concludes, he who had the tyrant slain is a hero. That, of course, scandalizes the nobility, because Jean de Bourgogne had his own cousin murdered and he confesses it proudly, yet it shows you the differences between our "modern tyrants" and what medieval philosophers would call a tyrant (since Jean Petit used their definition of tyranny).
For instance, at the battle of Agincourt (1415), the two brothers of Jean de Bourgogne were slain. Jean then send a letter with his gauntlet to Henry V, king of England, to challenge him to a duel. Henry V returned the glove with a letter of condolences and apology, saying he was very sorry for killing the two brothers of one of the most gallant knight in christendom. That gives you a hint of how bad the Brits wanted Burgundy on their side.
Hey, I've read a little further into the example you gave. As I understand it Jean de Bourgogne was later absolved by the King for the assassination. Was this because the murder was actually seen as 'tyrannicide' in line with the speech, or was it instead a way to 'sweep it under the rug' and forget about it?
I did provide some references in the linked post, but if you need I think I could provide some on this specific topic. Just let me know.
Definitely sweep it under the rug. France could not afford such divisions at the time, and the king was in one of his short periods of recovery. He intended to keep intact (or rather restore) the unity of the royal family (which both Jean and Louis were part of).
Also, Jean became very popular among Parisians. Louis's actions were impopular and Jean followed a populist politic to gather support. He was appreciated by the population, was the head of the most important duchy of the kingdom, and was relieved from his arch-nemesis for good (Louis d'Orléans's son being, at the time, too young to be real threat). He was, without a doubt, the most powerful man in the realm. Now, add to the picture that he always refused to enter into an alliance with the English, despite them being friendly to him and trying to make him join them.
Now, if you place yourself in Charles VI's shoes, you understand quickly that you need not offend or condemn your cousin, or he will most likely run to the English, meaning game over in the war (this is what happened after Charles VII had Jean de Bourgogne assassinated and explains ho dire the French situation was as of 1420-1430).
So there a bit of "I can't afford to vex the most powerful man in the realm", a bit of "all right let's stop the civil war right now, before it blows" and a bit of "yeah right if I condemn my own cousin for killing another family member, how dishonorable will the family look ?".
I would also like to add that it's important to look at the author and why/in what context they wrote about tyrants. Mainly because no medieval or early modern texts were ever written without a specific purpose -- and image building and personal gain were two very common such purposes, especially in times where having Big Opinions as an intellectual could give you notoriety and social credit (which in a lot of cases resulted in political credit as well).