In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
“But the Eleventh Amendment prohibits a federal court from awarding declaratory or injunctive relief of the kind at issue against a state official based only on a violation of state law.”.
To sum up... "You were wrong and did something illegal. But we can't do shit about it because there exists no punishment for corrupt politicians. You win. But you were a very bad boy. -wags finger-".
American politics is a mess. You can intentionally write unconstitutional bills to get in front of the court to try and over turn whatever it is you want. And that's our system. The only way to deal with it is by electing legislatures who arent intentionally writing unconstitutional laws or doing unconstitutional things like DeSantis did here. Or if the state allows, a recall vote. Because politician certainly aren't holding themselves accountable when they do something intentionally unconstitutional.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Because it violated his first amendment right of the united states of America. You hear federal constitutional issues in federal court.
The federal district court believes the federal government doesn't allow him to reinstate an elected official. He's called on the governor to reinstate him.
But there is no relief because he's a state elected official and the 11th amendment doesn't allow this court to reinstate a states elected official. You wouldn't want to give the federal court the ability to appoint people to state positions for obvious reasons. It's a state right to appoint, elect, or reinstate a state official. Not a federal one.
I get his argument but the judge ruled he is breaking federal law, which is the 1st amendment. Federal law supersedes all state law, it is just that a lot of federal law lets states rule as they see fit (such as marijuana).
Thats what I meant earlier when I was saying something unconstitutional isn't necessarily illegal. You end up with stuff like this. Because there is no legal relief to give because no legislature has written a law that punishes officials for acting unconstitutionally.
The thing stopping relief here is actually another constitutional amendment protecting the states rights to appoint or elect their own officials.
This, however, is a violation of a federal law (the 1st Amendment), and therefore the judge should have jurisdiction to remedy the situation.
The constitution lays out rights. And our laws have to respect those constitution rights. But doing something unconstitutional isn't illegal, or a violation of the law, unless the legislature creates a law making unconstitutional actions illegal.