Hey everyone! My name is Andrey Pertsev and I’m a Russian journalist with Meduza. My work also appears in Carnegie Russia and Riddle. I’m best known for having sources throughout the Russian government, and understanding the political machinations of the Russian Federation. I’m from Arkhangelsk, but I’ve been to a majority of Russia’s regions and know their political structures well.
On January 26th, Meduza was outlawed in Russia. The Russian Prosecutor General’s Office designated Meduza as an illegal, “undesirable organization.” Officials announced in a public statement that Meduza’s activities “pose a threat to the foundations of the Russian Federation’s constitutional order and national security.” That means we’re banned from operating on Russian territory under threat of felony prosecution and any Russian citizens who “participate in Meduza’s activities” also could also face legal repercussions. Me, for example.
That's very interesting. I'm a little surprised they weren't at least somewhat prepared for this. They knew Biden was going to Poland and "surprise" visits to Ukraine from world leaders have been a thing for nearly a year now.
EDIT: We’re translating back and forth between English and Russian. Sorry if we take a few minutes. Please bear with us.
Underestimating the resolve and courage of the west is one of the key mistakes they keep making. The FSB probably told decision makers that Biden would be too afraid, because it makes them feel fuzzy.
EDIT 2: Thanks for all of your questions everyone Unfortunately, we have to go, but maybe we’ll get a chance to answer a few more tomorrow before Putin’s speech. If you want to follow along for said speech, we will be doing a live blog on our site. Have a nice day.
Yes the honestly think that people from "the west" are huge pussies. It's sort of weird because they don't understand that "speaking softly" doesn't mean you aren't carrying a big stick.
The USA told the Kremlin at the very last moment, and so my sources in state media said that they didn’t receive instructions on how to cover it for a while. That means the Kremlin didn’t know exactly how to react. It’s likely that Putin and his inner circle are in the process of rewriting his speech to the parliament tomorrow.