In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
It pretty funny that you criticize people siding with Republicans and then give an example of why the Democrats are hardly any better. Nobody should be voting for either of these parties.
So, if you are younger and vote, good for you. If you are too jaded and cynical to vote you are getting what you deserve. And if you do vote, vote single payer. Be a one issue voter. It will be good for all of us.
Yeah. It’s fucked. Healthcare should be cheap for everyone or expensive for everyone. Preferably it should be free/universal as it should be a right but as you said they’ve got tons of money in the government to keep it how it is.
Medicine, more freedom, more dignity and more self respect - all that. Oh, and greater happiness. We just keep ignoring the proof and stumbling forward. It is all on you and your vote.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Probably so. But I’m fine with that. Seems more logical to give something like this too everyone rather than a group of certain age that are already established and have had more time to save to pay for those things.
Um, close.... first Socialism (where the state owns the means of production)... then Communism (what you just defined). Both preferable to the status quo, certainly.
Speaking from the edge of retirement.... not quite there. I never imagined how I would survive or get the point where I had money in the bank.But I am a reliable voter so I land in a group that gets what it wants more often. But it is all at risk with a single adverse health incident. As it is all at risk for you too. Your financial future could be wiped out... single payer universal health care works! Ask yourself this (assuming you have ever met a Canadian)... why do those guys seems so calm?
Don't fall into the trap. It is not young vs. old. It is people vs. corporations and the Republican (and even Democratic) politicians owned by big pharma. The answer has been in the room like an invisible fucking elephant for years - single payer. If you continue to be chained you will continue to envy and disparage those with longer chains. That seems foolish when you cut work with them to break the chains. Become a single issue voter or continue to flounder.
Single payer universal health care is, and always has been, the only answer. Otherwise sane people who see most things clearly stumble on this. There should be no profit in health care. And note, I am currently employed in the industry (funny story how that accidentally happened) and would celebrate losing my job to it's fucking abolition. Thanks for the post Elise and keep being you! .
Yeah. I’m a young(ish)(30s) voter. I do need to pay more attention to what a politician plans are if elected though. My wife just went through (and is still) a terrible spat of pneumonia with sepsis on top of that. If it weren’t for her mother being the VP of the hospital we were at we would be destroyed by medical debt right now. Luckily though she’s going to help us with it but we still most likely have to go see a specialist soon at a different hospital so we’re going to be stuck with those bills no matter what. We’re only a one income household as she is a stay at home mom. At least until our youngest goes to school full time in kindergarten which is just next August. Too many big businesses have too much money invested in the government though to get any good change for everyone. It’s not only healthcare either. The companies we have to do our taxes with pay to keep them from just telling us how much we owe on our taxes.
Well of course you’re making more than someone who is retired. I’m sure they’ve got a good bit in either a savings account or 401k. Or even both. It was a whole lot easier for them to save than it is for the generations younger than them. The way things are going now anyone under probably 40 isn’t going to get to retire at all.
I admire your wisdom and sense. Moving to where you can thrive is a skill most never develop. Having lived in WA for decades and with a sister who lived in Portland I always marvel at just how forward thinking and effective the people of those states can be (while saddled with some of the dumbest in all 50, right?, ha).