In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I also understand full well that Biden will probably not make a similar statement about Muslims for Eid due to politics. But even double standards don't stop me from condemning attacks against Jewish people.
Not Jewish, but some of the closest people in my life are, and I’ve seen it becoming more common in my life and how harmful it can be to general well-being in my community.
Twitter, for example, has become the poster child of racism. Look up posts on trending, especially those made by news orgs and journalists, LGBT+ posts, Jewish, or minority related threads and it's just everywhere. The amount of posts I've seen today alone encouraging minorities to fed to woodchippers is staggering.
This is what people mean when they scream about the "right to free speech" online. Without moderation this is where you end up. Hell, just about any time you see somebody commenting about about their first amendment rights what follows is generally the worst take on any given subject.
I do wish that bigotry would be condemned wholesale on a more regular basis, and not just to benefit one particular group. But even baby steps are still progress, and thus should be encouraged.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Israel and Judaism are not the same thing. Netenyahu called Victor Orban a "friend of Israel". I don't imagine that sits particularly well with many Jewish Americans.
But this is a special event for Jewish people culturally. It has nothing to do with ethno nationalism. Therefore, to me, it is a perfectly appropriate time to condemn bigotry against Jewish people.