Cop in California here... Had almost an identical issue once maybe 4 years ago so the laws might have changed.
This dude would call us almost daily cause an unknown neighbor would fly a drone over his backyard. We honestly didn't have an answer and had to do some research...
It isn't a criminal offense. It's a civil matter. You need to file a law suit against the owner of the drone. I wish I could remember the legal section my Lieutenant cited during briefing, sorry I just don't remember.
The whole restricted air space violation should be handled by the FAA if they want to investigate that crime. You can't force them to investigate it.
If it were ME having this issue with my own unknown neighbor... I'd bother the FAA daily. Become that squeeky wheel. Don't be RUDE, but be firm and annoying. ask to speak to a supervisor constantly. Keep going up the chain of the command. FAA is going to be WAY better at dealing with it. Probably bring in some wazoo radio frequency jammer?
If the drone operator is 107 certified, they offer waivers for both visual line of sight, and certain classes of airspace.
As far as privacy concerns go, anything that can be viewed from a low flying aircraft is deemed fair game with no expectations of privacy (). So unless he's peeping in windows he's not technically doing anything wrong.
No, Specifically flights under 44809 require no license and are for recreational/personal use only. Flights under this section are also permitted to make LAANC request for instant flight authorization and may additionally need to contact the airspace controller.
You can request LAANC authorization in classified airspace for nearly immediate flight authorization. This extends to Part 107 and Section 44809. The AGL approved in the request would supersede the airspace flight restrictions for the duration of the approval. Depending on the rule you’re flying under you may also need to contact the airspace controller directly. Each of these elements are extremely easy to execute.