15: Norman M. Naimark, Fires of Hatred: Ethnic Cleansing in Twentieth-Century Europe (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2001), 129.
I am only familiar with what happened to ethnic Germans and German citizens in Poland and Czechoslovakia following WW2, but some of what happened with the redrawing of borders following WW1 had consequences for what happened in WW2. Hungary will also briefly come up, but I am not familiar with the specifics for Hungary.
Following WW1 large parts of Europe had their borders redrawn because of the fall of the Austria-Hungarian Empire. Czechoslovakia was founded and included the provinces of Bohemia and Moravia, which was home to millions of ethnic Germans.1 Part of Upper-Silesia was allocated to Poland, which meant millions of Germans now lived in Polish territory.2 In order to protect these minority groups Czechoslovakia and Poland, at the behest of the League of Nations, signed multilateral treaties which protected the rights of minority groups in their countries.3 In the treaties Czechoslovakia and Poland declared that they would give equal rights to all ethnic groups in their country after the transfer of territory. This was also reflected in The Treaty of Versailles:
There is a similar part with regard to Poland. The Treaty of Versailles also sets out specifically under which conditions German nationals that ended up outside of Germany can obtain the nationality of the country they were residing in after the signing of the Treaty of Versailles and country specific treaties.
The presence of ethnic minorities in countries following the redrawing of Europe after WW1 caused tension in several countries, including the presence of German ethnic minorities. Edvard Benes, president of Czechoslovakia from 1935-1938 and 1945-1948 and leader of the Czechoslovak government-in-exile from 1939-1945, stated “our state \[Czechoslovakia\] was born with this problem \[national minorities\] and must either solve it at whatever cost or succumb!”7.
Following WW2 large portions of the ethnic German minorities that resided in Poland and Czechoslovakia were expelled to Germany. The expulsion of ethnic Germans from Poland, Czechoslovakia and Hungary was agreed on in the Potsdam Agreement.
This did not mean that ethnic Germans did not encounter any problems in their new countries. Czechoslovakia undertook a land reform program, which redistributed land from large landholders to small farmers. The German minority complained that the system redistributed land from German landholders to mostly Czechoslovakian citizens.5 Ethnic Germans in Poland made a complaint to the League of Nations about similar confiscations of land from and the eviction of German owners.6.
The inclusion of this part of the Potsdam agreement provided Czechoslovakia, Poland and Hungary with a legal basis for the expulsion of ethnic Germans, but as can be seen in the wording of the Article XII these countries were asked to suspend further expulsions, indicating that the respective countries were already in the process of expelling ethnic Germans.
The expulsion of ethnic Germans after the end of WW2 in both Poland and Czechoslovakia did not always take place in 'an orderly and humane manner'. For example, in Aussig/Usti nad Labem in Czechoslovakia a factory explode after which groups of citizens began attacking the German population.9 The Czech government used the violence against the ethnic Germans in Usti nad Labem to argue for the deportation of Germans in order for the Czech population to feel safe.10 German minorities were only given limited time to prepare for their expulsion11 and were often only allowed to bring what they could carry.12 There were also reports of a large number of suicides by ethnic Germans, either because of news of the arrival of the Red Army or because of notification of deportation.13 In Czechoslovakia, Germans were ordered to wear a white armband with the letter N for Nemec (German) on it.14 While most members of the German minority were expelled to Germany, a large number from Upper Silesia was deported to the Soviet Union.15 In Poland, some former concentration camps were turned into labor camps for (suspected) Nazis and other camps were used to house Germans that were awaiting expulsion.16 Of course, some Germans had already fled because of the advance of the Red Army and these people were simply not allowed to return to their homes in what was no longer Germany.
German citizens and ethnic Germans from Eastern Europe that arrived in Germany, either because they had fled or had been expelled, were referred to as Heimatvertriebene (Homeland expellees) and were distributed across the occupations zones.
1: Timothy W. Ryback, “Dateline Sudetenland: Hostages to History,” Foreign Policy No. 105 (1996): 166.
Schieder, Theodor, ed. Documents on the Expulsion of the Germans from Eastern-Central-Europe Vol. I.- IV. Translated by Vivian Stranders. Bonn: The Federal Ministry for Expellees, Refugees, and War Victims, 1958.
2: Alfred-Maurice de Zayas, Nemesis at Potsdam: The Expulsion of the Germans from the East (Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1988).
3: Alfred-Maurice de Zayas, A Terrible Revenge: The Ethnic Cleansing of the East European Germans, 1944-1950, Trans. by John A. Koehler, (New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1994).
6: Alfred-Maurice de Zayas, A Terrible Revenge: The Ethnic Cleansing of the East European Germans, 1944-1950, Trans. by John A. Koehler, (New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1994), 17.
7: Eduard Benes, Memoirs of Dr. Eduard Benes: From Munich to New War and New Victory, Trans. Godfrey Lias (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1954): 211.
10: Norman M. Naimark, Fires of Hatred: Ethnic Cleansing in Twentieth-Century Europe (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2001), 116.
5: Eagle Glassheim, “National Mythologies and Ethnic Cleansing: The Expulsion of Czechoslovak Germans in 1945,” Central European History 33 (2000): 469.
9: Eagle Glassheim, “National Mythologies and Ethnic Cleansing: The Expulsion of Czechoslovak Germans in 1945,” Central European History 33 (1996): 481-482.
11: Alfred-Maurice de Zayas, A Terrible Revenge: The Ethnic Cleansing of the East European Germans, 1944-1950, trans. John A. Koehler, (New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1994), 86.
12: Sebastian Siebel-Achenbach, Lower Silesia from Nazi Germany to Communist Poland, 1942-49 (New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1994), 124.
13: Norman M. Naimark, Fires of Hatred: Ethnic Cleansing in Twentieth-Century Europe (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2001), 126.
14: Eagle Glassheim, “National Mythologies and Ethnic Cleansing: The Expulsion of Czechoslovak Germans in 1945,” Central European History 33 (1996): 479.
I feel like this gives a rather clean picture of the less than orderly manner in which the German deportations were undertaken. I'm on my phone right now but might write a longer main reply once I get on my PC and to check my sources in a more thorough fashion.
And that is as far as I am comfortable answering your question as to what happened to them. Perhaps someone else can tell you a little bit more on the circumstances the Heimatvertreibene encountered upon their arrival and the political and social position of the Heimatvertriebene in both the East and West Germany.
For example the Ustni Nad Labem incident saw hundreds of ethnic Germans killed and/or thrown in to the Elbe for the crime of being Germans. The German population was made easily identifiable to the attackers by the white armbands they had to wear, in a twist of irony on the treatment of the Jewish populations.
In other parts lf Czechoslovakia thousands of Germans were expelled from their home again with only little time to gather any belongings and were sent on foot for a march of hundreds of kilometers towards Austria. Many were summarily executed by the Czechoslovak army units or militias escorting them. However, once they reached the Austrian border they weren't allowed to cross. Thus the Germans were ushered in to a makeshift internment camps that amounted to little more than a field surrounded by fences. Starvation and disease was rampant and many Germans died.
Schechtman, Joseph B. Postwar Population Transfers in Europe 1945-1955. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1962.