How did he manage to divorce your mom without informing her or having any kind of notification? Does she have actual documentation of this divorce happening, was there ever an attempt to be served, etc? Does she have a divorce judgment from an actual court?
Your mom needs to talk to a lawyer. She can contact a domestic violence shelter even if she doesn't immediately need their services to live with them. They will be familiar with spousal abandonment and financial abuse, which this is, and have legal contacts. She needs guidance on alimony in the US, whether her overseas divorce decree is real (if not, then _getting_ a divorce), and then financial advice about the house. It's really a matter for her and a real estate attorney to work through but your dad can't sell the house without her consent and he cannot force it. If they are both on the title/deed, and they don't agree on what to do, then a court can force a partition sale. In either scenario, this is not a go-it-alone scenario.
You do not need to take your mother into your house. No is a complete sentence. She cannot force you to let her live with you. Forget financially beneficial, a toxic relationship is mentally and physically negative, and can harm you over the long-term. Your mom's an adult. She needs to figure out what she is going to do. "Living and mooching off my adult child who isn't okay with this" is as reprehensible a retirement strategy as that guy who refused to move out of his parents' house until legally evicted.
He claims that he doesn't need her permission to do so. Nothing is official and nothing has been served. My father said he filed and it would take 4-6 months to occur and then after that it would be an additional amount of time to split up the assets, etc.
You can ask about divorce laws in that country on /r/legaladviceeurope. I'd strongly suggest she actually see if there is a real divorce that happened. This seems like a lot of BS on his part to force her to act.
I will look into helping her find someone to call and hopefully they can say more on the situation. What I don't know is if he divorces her and goes to another country, is he still responsible to pay her alimony when she's in the US?