The Spartans of the Classical period (c. 479-323 BC) had a few moderate advantages over other Greeks in the organisation, discipline and tactical ability of their heavy infantry. I talked about this in more detail (especially Part 2). I'm phrasing the point very carefully here to allow for a couple caveats. First, the Spartans before and during the Persian Wars do not seem to have stood out from other Greek warriors in any way. Their special skills only show up later, during the Peloponnesian War. Second, their abilities may have been effective against the untrained militias of other Greek states (and, as it happened, against a Persian royal army on one decisive occasion), but they were not professional soldiers, and their limited edge over other Greeks could easily be replicated by forces that made even a moderate effort. Third, their advantage was in heavy infantry tactics only; other Greeks were consistently superior to the Spartans in terms of light infantry, cavalry, siege and naval warfare. Fourth, their military supremacy in mainland Greece was short-lived. From 371 BC onwards they were regularly beaten in pitched battle by Thebans, Arkadians and Macedonians. If their warriors still held any notable advantage in combat skill at the time, Sparta was no longer able to leverage that into any real geopolitical power.
I guess it'll be obvious by now that I do not consider the Spartans to be "one of if not the best soldiers in the Ancient World." The claim is most fundamentally false because Spartans were not soldiers, if soldiers are professionals fighting for pay. Spartans were leisure-class citizens who were forbidden by law from having any profession (including soldiering). Sparta had no standing army, and relied instead on a militia to serve its needs in war. This is why I insist on calling the Spartans warriors rather than soldiers. They were amateurs, just like the warriors of other Greek states - but amateurs who spent more of their time at least preparing for the challenges and deprivations of war, because their leisure-class status gave them the time to do it. But mostly the life of a Spartan was one of pleasure, paid for by the labour of their enslaved underclass, the helots.
The claim is also false on the technical level, since the history of Sparta does not show the Spartans behaving particularly skilfully in war. They do compared to other Greek states, to be sure - but their discipline and tactics never reach the level of an army like Alexander's or Hannibal's, to say nothing of the veteran Roman legions of later ages. Against such well-drilled professional forces the Spartan militia would have been totally outclassed. In battles against more professional forces, like the Persian Immortals at Thermopylai or the Macedonian pikemen at Megalopolis and Sellasia, Spartan armies tend to be quickly overwhelmed. Indeed, as I said above, they were even fairly regularly beaten by other Greeks, who had neither the preparation nor the reputation that the Spartans could bring into battle.
It is true that the Spartans had a reputation throughout Antiquity for being uniquely competent warriors. But even ancient authors like Plutarch were aware that this was largely a self-fulfilling prophecy: the Spartans won battles because others were afraid of fighting them. Most of their fearsome reputation went back to a single feat of arms: the defeat they suffered at the hands of the Persians at Thermopylai. This battle convinced other Greeks that Spartans would never retreat or surrender, and the result was that the Spartans rarely faced very determined opposition in battle. But when they did - when the Thebans held their ground at Leuktra in 371 BC - the Spartans proved no better than any other warriors, and suffered a crushing defeat. If they had a name for good military knowledge and skill, it was only because the Spartans themselves reinforced that image when dealing with outsiders, cultivating an appearance of methodical insight and unwavering confidence.
But of course, the point here is foreshadowing: Herodotos is pointing ahead to the fact that the Spartans (along with the Thespians) would fight to the death at Thermopylai. But there is also irony here, because Herodotos later describes how the decisive battle at Plataia nearly ended in disaster for the Greeks because a Spartan unit commander refused to obey a direct order to retreat. The supreme commander Pausanias was trying to move the Greek army to a better defensive position, but the officer Amompharetos argued - no doubt with Leonidas' example in mind - that it would be wrong for a Spartan to leave his station, and that his job was to fight and die where he stood. In this case Amompharetos was plainly wrong, openly insubordinate, and jeopardising the fate of the entire Greek army. Herodotos seems to have understood that the law requiring men to keep their station should not be taken to apply to units or armies, as Leonidas had mistakenly done at Thermopylai. It was useful when applied to individual warriors within a hoplite formation, but when it was applied to whole units, it became a rigid and potentially disastrous dogma. The source is not endorsing this, but foreshadowing that Xerxes is dealing with fanatics here, who cannot be expected to act in their own best interests.
In light of all this, it's safe to say that even the source of this passage recognised that the Spartans were not the best warriors of his own day, or any day, let alone of Antiquity as a whole.
So who do you think where the best fighters of antiquity, or classical era greece. Also wouldn't their training in agoge, designed to build obedience and discipline, take part into the way hoplite warfare was fought.
On the one hand, yes, their upbringing probably increased their resilience, stamina and performance in battle. As I said above and in the linked post, it's undeniable that the Spartans had some advantages over some opponents in some conditions for some of Antiquity. I'm just arguing that this superiority shouldn't be overstated.
I don't think there is much sense in trying to rank the different warriors of Antiquity and declaring one group to be the best. What does "best fighters" mean anyway? If we mean the ones most consistently able to defeat and subject others, then the answer becomes a simple matter of checking which empires were largest and most stable. If so, the best fighters of Antiquity were the Persians (Achaemenids, Parthians, Sasanids) and the Romans. If we mean the ones that pulled off the most unlikely and spectacular victories, we could bicker about that endlessly, but are those victories ever representative of something innate, or are they just the product of circumstance? Do they reflect the quality of warriors, or of their generals, or of their state, or do they just show the power of luck and happenstance? I don't think it's possible to generalise on the basis of a few victories. If we mean which one "would win in a fight," we are speculating, not thinking historically.
But in any case, how much does he really say? People have read much more into this passage than it can bear. The point about fighting better together than alone has been taken as a reference to phalanx tactics, but there is nothing like that in the text; in any case, the Persians understood formation fighting perfectly well, and knew that everyone fights better collectively than when they are alone. At best, the line refers to the fact of social control in battle - the idea that Spartans, like other close-knit groups, are afraid of letting each other down. The only other point that says anything about Spartan military ability is the point that the law tells them to keep their station. Now, we can quibble about whether that actually shows skill, rather than senseless dogmatism; fighting to the last man is typically neither clever nor effective, as the battle of Thermopylai shows. But even if we read this as praise for the Spartans' selfless obedience, the fact remains that other Greeks also had laws forbidding them to leave their station. As hoplite formations became more regular, several states enacted laws that made leaving one's place in the line a punishable offence. The punishment connected to this crime at Athens (loss of citizen rights) was actually more severe than it was at Sparta. So how does this make the Spartans special? It would make more sense to read this speech as a characterisation of all resisting Greeks than of the Spartans alone.
On the other hand, we don't know when the Spartan education took its famous form; the earliest description of the system dates to the 4th century BC, and it is not referred to as "the agoge" until the Hellenistic period. It's possible that the system only emerged in the Classical period to support a Spartan supremacy that was already in place. Also, regardless of what advantages we ascribe to this education, it's actually hard to point to any specific examples of Spartans performing better than other Greeks in war. Apart from their tactical superiority in a handful of battles, there's not much that sets them apart. They just have a reputation for being better, which helps them win battles by scaring their enemies, but in practice their behaviour varied a lot.