I don't mean to sound glib, but someone who owns real property in the Bay Area with designs to operate as an STR is being foolish to not hire an attorney to understand their legal duties. This isn't something to cheap out on. I would never expect anyone to be particularly up to speed on the laws in this arena, but if I may be terribly blunt, worrying about the number of days is a really minor detail in the grand scheme of things. Both the state and most municipal areas have heavy regulation and restriction on renting through VRBO or similar STR occupancy. With lots of fines. Big fines. You can't be sure you're fully abiding all relevant law if you're only using the (minimal) restrictions set forth in state law.
A few random rules that may apply, based on specifics, and are just a couple of way more than I can list.
In most cities with regulations, short term rental is defined between 28 days and six months. It's municipal level. CA has some statewide regulations regarding definitions of hotels and other non residential tenancy dwellings that apply, but they are not generally what one need look to since cities have regulations that expand on the relevant state act.
In San Francisco pro0er you must reside in the dwelling or may only operate it as short term rental for no more than 90 days out of a calendar year. You cannot have a year round short term unit. Several other cities have similar limitations.
Other cities in the Bay have regulations that only allow them in your primary home; disallow them in rent control units, prohibit them altogether outside of specific boundaries (s. Lake Tahoe for example prohibits most outside a tourist core.).
Thank you this is super helpful! Will tell them to look into getting an attorney. The home is in Pleasanton California and I don’t think the city has as strict laws as San Francisco. They don’t really have an HOA either.
It's unfortunate OP is in Pleasanton. I said it above, but they had a full prohibition on short term rentals last I was paying attention. You're completely on point with why it is so crucial to pay attention to Muni code, since the limited regulations in CA really don't scratch the surface on requirements and allowances in most populated regions. It's... really a lot to sift through. And so much yet to work its way through the appeals system. Now the handful of suits regarding prohibition on short term due to covid will throw even more complexity in application of law oh god why did I choose this field.
You can be fined $1k or 2x the advertised price, whichever is greater per day, for operating a short term unit without the appropriate license, in all dwellings statewide. (This is less than the fines associated with some municipal rules.).
Makes sense. Yes they only want to do long term rentals but with covid moratorium don’t know what to do if someone decides to not leave after 30 days.
This is absolutely and unquestionably something your relative needs to invest the cost of sitting with a housing attorney for a couple hours and make sure they know exactly their legal obligations and abilities here. It will be cheaper than making a single mistake could potentially cost.
Last I know, Pleasanton was far stricter than the city of SF, and had a complete prohibition almost all short term rentals under 30 days of private homes where the owner does not live on site. I know they went through some changes the last couple years and I believe there are some exceptions that allow for some. If it's a single family home, they almost assuredly will not be allowed to rent it all year for less than 30 days.
The moratorium on evictions is limited and does not prohibit termination of a lease on its natural end date, with the exception of tenancies that fall under CA AB 1492, which grants tenure of occupancy to tenancy who reside in most rental dwellings after 12 consecutive months of tenancy. It doesn't impact a property owner in a manner that prohibits termination at the end of a 90 day lease and does not prohibit enforcement of the unlawful detainer (eviction/removal) for someone who overstays an expired tenancy.
Most cities require the owner pay additional taxes and registration; many have additional inspection requirements.
California is about 3rd in the nation with the strongest tenant protections without consideration for Covid mandates and orders. Anyone, and I mean anyone from a large corporate entity to someone who is subletting a bedroom in their apartment, absolutely and unquestionably needs to understand their legal obligations. This is particularly the case with landlords who have a single or small number of properties who operate themselves rather than hiring a broker or property manager, as while they are a tiny fraction of actual landlords, I sue WAY more individual landlords than I do even very large property management companies (as a representative population), as small landlords seem to not recognize that renting property to others is a business and not a matter of their personal property rights. It's a highly and strictly regulated commercial venture, with considerably risks including financial loss. I mean this sincerely, and in general they make way more expensive mistakes and are way more prone to having liens placed or asset seizure to satisfy judgement for nonpayment of large awards for those mistake. And candidly, I really super like doing that. Rented properties are someone's home, not just a building someone owns.