No deal. Full refund for the lens. Do not bring it back to the store until they write up a receipt of cancelling the lease with full refund.
“I have read and agreed to all terms and conditions of the loan and if I have any further questions regarding finance charges and payments after purchase, I will contact the finance company directly at the phone number provided. I do not hold (shop name here) liable for any additional fees added by the finance company.”.
There's a difference between a return and the cancellation of a contract. Return means you desire a return for your money back when the store was actually happy with the sale, where as a change in the contract means you can say "I would not have purchased it at that price so no thanks". Both parties would be "made whole" in this situation. Imagine if they said the price is now $1million and apply a 15% restocking fee. It just doesn't work that way.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I'd honestly tell the store and finance company that you'd like to stick to the original contract as-is and stop speaking with them. If they persist, offer to return it for a full refund and cancellation with the contract plus $100 for your troubles since you'd have to travel and deal with inconveniences as a professional.
I’d use it for the job you bought it for and then return it tomorrow. When you get to the shop tell them they can honor the contract you signed with them for the price they agreed to or you are willing to return the items if they provide you with a full refund and cancel the contract. You get a free day of use or you get it at the price they sold it to you for. They either get the sale or the items back. Do not for any reason give them more money or agree to any restocking fees to cover their mistake.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.