They should have been excluded after all the state-sponsored cheating they did. They came back and immediately cheated and lied some more. But the IOC is too corrupt to care.
I know it sounds harsh, but that has been my experience. I live a couple hundred kms from a Russian border and have visited them multiple times. It's a weird place.
It's not a Hollywood movie where it's just one super villain doing everything. Most russians either support him or don't care, and most of the rest are cowards.
Putin didn't rise to power, because of a coup. Russians chose him again and again. The majority still choose him and if it wasn't Putin it'd be some other "strongman". Many Russians are assholes in general, but especially when we're talking about the superiority complex they feel toward states, that used to be under Russian rule.
Luckily it hasn't been a closed country in a long time, so folks with brains, other opinions and options have been able to move out.
I don't mean to refute this because I'm honestly not very knowledgeable about Russian life, but I have to believe that many people living in Russia are oppressed or brainwashed by the ideology put forth by the government. I can't really blame the people for not knowing any better.
Again, it's not an inanimate "government", it's not putin's clones doing it, it's russians doing it. And you being a coward doesn't justify cowardice of others. Iranians didn't get the memo apparently.
The Iranians bravely protested, suffered, and the dictators are still in charge. It’s not easy to organise mass protests, especially in a country that’s always feeding its population state propaganda and misinformation.
Imagine calling people cowards for not wanting to be imprisoned for years for holding a blank piece of paper.
Most of the Russian population don’t even know the truth about the Ukraine war. They’re being bombarded with state propaganda.
Let’s say you lived in Russia, and you somehow had access to the truth about the Ukraine war and the Russian censorship of its people.
Would you be willing to hold a blank piece of paper (or even a poster with writing on it), make 0 difference to the war in Ukraine, and get arrested for years / decades in some cases?
They don't want to know it, they didn't care as their rights to criticize the government were gradually stripped away. Also, hacktivists showed various atrocities through the tv and internet, didn't do anything. If russians honestly used their brain a bit, they would realize it doesn't make sense to act like Ukraine, or anyone, is a threat to Russia and their 6200 nukes.
In Iran, people know what’s going on. It’s hard to not notice lots of murders and gunfire in towns / cities by the government. That’s not the case in Russia. Many Russians don’t know anything outside of the TV telling them that Russia is winning.
Wouldn’t the athletes be included in that? Training for years just to be banned from competing because you were born in a country with a moron as dictator.
You need to grow up and stop coping. It's not one movie super villain. If you speak to some russians, you'll see there's a fuckton of fascism and xenophobia among them. There's interviews, there's statistics, there's online interactions, none of that shows much(edit: or any whatsoever, when I think back) regret.
So you want Australian, Ukrainian, Danish etc athletes to not be able to compete if IOC allows athletes with a nationality of Russian to compete without a flag or anthem?
Banning athletes just for their nationality feels a little discriminatory. In the article, it seems that the IOC already said they’ll ban athletes who are deemed to support Russia’s war against Ukraine.
And let’s say the IOC decides not to ban all Russian and Belarusian athletes from competing. Then the Ukrainian athletes are forced by their government to not compete. Training for years just to not be allowed to compete. The athletes on both sides are going through a similar thing in respect to competing in the Olympics.
Ban the athletes that support the war, and allow the ones that don’t to compete without flags and anthems. What’s the problem with this solution?
They're still fighting. It's not easy, it's not safe, but they're still doing it. Russians on the other hand refuse to accept responsibility for anything, and people like you enable their inaction.
Perhaps the athletes should leave Russia and move to a better country? It's not a ploy to punish them, but an action to punish the government. There were a lot of great Germans who fled Germany during the Nazi regime. Perhaps it's time Russians flee their oppressors as well.
To be able to compete for another nation, they’d have to be allowed citizenship. And most western nations are against even granting visas to Russians now, let alone granting them citizenship.
Russia is excluded. Do you want the Russian athletes who don’t support the war (supporters are banned) excluded too?
Ukraine and some other countries are saying either don’t let athletes of Russian nationality compete (even under no flag or anthem) or we won’t let our athletes compete.