However, the combination of the Soviet entry into the war and two atomic bombs only just tipped the government towards surrender (and even then there was a coup attempt in order to avoid surrender), and it is likely that it would have taken longer before Japan surrendered without the atomic bombs.
The surrender also stopped the fighting in Manchuria, saving many Japanese lives (and also many Soviet lives and civilian lives). The Japanese forces in Manchuria fought hard, but generally did not fight to the death. Estimating Japanese military deaths as the geometric mean of the Japanese and Soviet claims, about half of the Japanese troops who fought the Soviets died, and about half surrendered. Approximately 600,000 Japanese troops were interned by the Soviets after the surrender; we can estimate that if they had fought, there might have been another 300,000 Japanese military deaths. There would have been many Soviet and civilian deaths, too.
Can we estimate deaths due to a delay in surrender? In 98 months of war in China, Japan killed about 4,000,000 civilians and POWs (counting massacres, executions, civilian deaths in battle and bombing, and deaths of forced labourers, but not counting deaths due to famine or disease), an average of 40,000 per month. In 45 months of WWII, Japan killed about 2,000,000 civilians in occupied and colonial Asia, an average of about 45,000 per month (counting massacres, executions, civilian deaths in battle and bombing, and deaths of forced labourers, but not counting deaths due to famine or disease). Adding military deaths in China (about 2,000,000) and famine deaths (about 10,000,000) quadruples the death rate in China, to about 160,000 per month. Adding famine deaths to WWII approximately doubles the death rate in occupied Asia, to about 90,000 per month. Thus, the war in China and the occupation of much of SE Asia was killing people at about 250,000 per month. This is an average over the war, and the death rate was higher late in the war.
God, those really are some numbers. As a Norwegian it boggles the mind, even spread out over all of East Asia. How did you end up with the different numbers, and did you find them from différent sources?
See Table 3.1 for the numbers, linked in the 2nd paragraph of chapter 3. The SE Asian famine deaths have various estimates; the main contribution is the famine in northern Vietnam, which killed 1 to 2 million (and the Japanese occupation basically caused this famine).
If Japan had surrendered about a month later, the above considerations give an estimate of about 250,000 civilians deaths in China and occupied Asia, and about 300,000 additional Japanese military deaths, without including further civilian deaths in Manchuria or deaths in Japan from US (non-atomic) bombing. it seems quite reasonable to claim that the atomic bombings accelerated the Japanese surrender, and in doing so saved lives.