Modnote: Please make sure that all comments are addressing the legal question here. We will ban users who make off-topic comments regarding politics or society, or giving opinions and insights into what's morally or ethically right or wrong. This sub is very narrowly moderated, and this is the only warning we will be giving. Make sure that you before you comment.
Yes, it's legal for an employer to ask what race you are. They can't discipline you or treat you in a worse way based on your answer. That would start to be unlawful.
I think you (and others) are seriously missing the point. This is not about whether OP's employer can ask what race or ethnicity he is. It is about whether the employer can segregate their workforce into racial groups, and then give those groups separate training based on their race.
Are they requesting that you go through this website and sign up which asks you to identify as 'x' to sign up for the training?
Basically, is this optional or not and is the training company asking you to supply this information or is your employer asking directly? These things are likely to make some difference.
It's not illegal unless you can demonstrate that you've been treated worse based on your race or ethnicity.
It's perfectly legal to have a "Diversity group" and send invitations for people to attend. As long as everyone is invited and no one is subjected to some kind of adverse treatment. It's actually quite common.
OP also says it's an "invitation" meaning it sounds voluntary. It's perfectly legal to have workshops at work for people that belong to a certain race or ethnicity. Just as long as they are not treated worse for being in the group, and those not in the group are also not treated worse.
OP might use the term "pressuring" but nothing they wrote in the post looks like pressure. I'm fairly confident that if it was some kind of coercion that OP would be very specific about this coercion. I don't see anything.
No, it's actually not. In that instance people were not allowed to integrate. I'm clearly illustrating a situation where anyone can attend a diversity workshop and there is no penalty or reward for doing so. At least no tangible reward. Learning things and meeting people is separate.
Depends on the case. Merely making a group praising a certain group but allowing anyone to join it and not giving any reward for joining or any penalty for not joining would probably not violate the law.
Like I told another poster, "Women in Tech" groups and conferences are huge in California. But men are allowed to attend, participate, and join the groups. And many men do. This is not a violation of the law. No one is being excluded or marginalized.