You need a lawyer. Hiring a lawyer to mediate everything means you're getting zero advice that favors you and you lose serious candor.
If you screw this up with a DIY, expect to become one of the many guys who scream about the unfairness of the family courts when you find that you can't change the final divorce decree without a major change in circumstances. Waiving things like a fault basis would be something to review, especially as you're taking out more debt before filing for divorce.
Wouldn’t just getting away with paying $650 a month for daycare be favorable in my situation, all things considered?
I do want to make sure my kids are taken care of. But, I don’t want to be paying so much to the ex that she can continue to live job free either.
I'll also mention that an agreement of "uhhh, we'll figure out expenses like school and sports when it comes to that" is begging for conflict. You want an agreement that clearly articulates what percent you'll pay for, who has decision making authority for things like medical matters and schooling, handling transportation to-from visitation, etc.
He also said this wouldn’t start until after our agreement for spousal support ends (my $650 for the daycare until our kid is in kindergarten).
If they don't believe it's in the best interest of the child, yes. You make enough money to hire an attorney for a reasonable amount to draft up a fair agreement and have it incorporated into an order of the court.
If the court doesn't catch it aid for dependent children will as soon as she files for any assistance. Arkansas uses combined income. It gets tricky as to what your percentage is without have a job record for your wife so someone will need to come up with an imputed income for her. Minimum wage at 40hours should be \1700/month take home plug that into the calculator along with your net (wages -taxes) and any child care expenses (like the jump from single to family in healthcare) that you or her have. My guess is you'll end up owing her about 500 to 600 more than the 650 unless she finds employment significantly higher than Min. Wage.
Of course. Child support is the right of the child and no court is obligated to accept an unreasonable deal because 2 parents agreed to it.
I’m still learning about it all, but I ended up talking to a lawyer yesterday that is going to do our paper work for us.
I’m waiting for him to send me the stuff in an email so I can follow his math. Cause it was difficult to over the phone. But he said the state of Arkansas considers $700 a month to be the amount it takes to take care of a child. So $1400 between both kids.
So, it sounded like I’d be paying her $650 a month until kindergarten. Then, I’d be moving to $350ish a month until the kids 18 (lowers when one kid hits 18 first).
She is assumed to be capable of making full time minimum wage despite not having a job. Me paying around $250 in health insurance for the kids is factored in. He came around $350 a month somehow that I would roughly be paying her.