this is amazing holy moly thank you for answering a no upvote question in such depth in school we were just given a laundry list of causes that condensed it into a few short bullet points taught as if they all happened within 6 months. Inflation, barbarian invasion, overpopulation. Next chapter. I definitely suspected the uncharitable descriptions of barbarians were fabricated or exaggerated - a lot of what you said about agendas of Roman politicians sounds very similar to fascist and nationalist fearmongering of political figures like Hitler (or of some, shall we say, contemporary political figures). The idea that these people just trying to escape suffering and persecution in their own country got slaughtered as if they were invaders is also frighteningly reflective of modern political discourse.
The next problem with your question is your usage of the term “invasion”, the great migrations of late antiquity were absolutely not invasions. These were migrations of people who wanted to move into the Roman Empire so they could live under its protection, not because they wanted to cause its demise. It is true that many of these migrations led to conflicts and battles because the Romans of course weren’t in the business of just letting tens of thousands of people settle inside their borders anytime they felt like it, but the groups who migrated during this period were eventually allowed to settle in areas that had been depopulated. These peoples would in turn send men to serve in the Roman military, especially the Goths. (I apologize if this sounded pretentious I just think its important to correct things like this when possible, because it is a rather common misconception.).
Firstly there are some issues with your question that needs to be addressed. The so-called “barbarians” that migrated into the Roman Empire throughout late antiquity did not have any kind of national identity. Most of them didn’t even have a shared cultural one despite coming from similar cultures and speaking related languages. People often have that view because the Romans tended to lump these peoples together into larger groups. So the Goths, Vandals, Marcomanni, and the Quadi might have been grouped together as “Germanic” people by the Romans but this is misleading because none of those groups would have referred to themselves as such. In fact some tribal groups, such as the Franks, were actually large groups composed of various tribes that the Romans just lumped together under one generic name. For example, the Tervingi Goths and the Greuthungi Goths were related to one another and both spoke Gothic (albeit different dialects) they were two separate groups of people that the Romans usually just referred to simply as Goths. This is a less egregious example than say lumping together all of the groups I listed previously, but it still shows how little effort the Romans put into understanding the diverse groups of people who lived across the Rhine and Danube Rivers. So while some of these groups may have occasionally raided the Empire or engaged in outright warfare with the Romans for some kind of “revenge”, it only would have been done after the Romans attacked them personally.
That being said, there is actually one example of an outright invasion during this period. That being Radagaisus’ invasion of Italy in late 405. Radagaisus was a Gothic king who led a group that may have been as large as 100,000 people (most of whom would have been noncombatants). But even this group was fleeing the Huns and so they only invaded Italy as a means to escape being conquered themselves. As far as I’m aware we don’t have any real idea as to what Radagaisus’ end goal was, but it likely couldn’t have been very different than Alaric’s goals a few years later when he invaded Italy. That is, he probably wanted some kind of assurance from the emperor that his people could settle land somewhere inside the Empire, likely in exchange for sending men to serve in the military, and perhaps even some kind of official position in the military for Radagaisus himself (plenty of non-Romans already held high ranks in the military, such as Stilicho who was half-Vandal).
Now the part of your question that is true is that the Romans did often depict these migrating people as “villains”, to use your own term, when writing about them. When discussing the Goth’s (in this case the Tervingi Goths) crossing of the Danube with the Roman’s help, Ammianus Marcellinus wrote “And the greatest care was taken to ensure that, even if they were suffering from a mortal illness, none of those destined to overthrow the Roman Empire should be left behind.” (Ammianus Marcellinus, Res Gestae 31.4.5) Clearly Ammianus, like many Romans, held biased opinions of non-Romans such as the Goths. Granted Ammianus did write his history after the Battle of Adrianople, where the Goths inflicted staggering casualties on the eastern field army, the Goths played no role in “overthrowing” the Empire and were settled within its borders after Theodosius I defeated them. Ammianus was also writing during the reign of Theodosius I and may have been playing up the threat of the Goths to make Theodosius look better since he’s the one who defeated them in battle.
Ammianus also described the Huns, a people he almost certainly never had any contact with, in rather derogatory ways:
They are certainly in the shape of men, however uncouth, but are so hardy that they neither require fire nor well-flavoured food, but live on the roots of such herbs as they get in the fields, or on the half-raw flesh of any animal, which they merely warm rapidly by placing it between their own thighs and the backs of their horses. They never shelter themselves under roofed houses, but avoid them as people ordinarily avoid sepulchres as things not fitted for common use. Nor is there even to be found among them a cabin thatched with reed; but they wander about, roaming over the mountains and the woods and accustom themselves to bear frost and hunger and thirst from their very cradles. And even when abroad they never enter a house unless under the compulsion of some extreme necessity; nor, indeed, do they think people under roofs as safe as others. (Ammainus Marcellinus, Res Gestae 31.2.3).
Another example of this bias against non-Romans can be seen in Paulus Orosius account of Radagaisus’ invasion:
Indeed against that most cruel enemy, Radagaisus, it was granted that the minds of other enemies with their forces be inclined to give us aid. Uldin and Sarus, leaders of the Huns and of the Goths, were on hand to aid the Romans; but God did not allow the fact of His power to seem to be the valor of men and especially of the enemy. He forced Radagaisus, struck with divine terror, into the mountains of Fiesole…no army was drawn up for battle; no fury and no fear presented the uncertainties of battle; no slaughter was done; no blood was shed…therefore, King Radagaisus by himself, taking hope for escape, secretly deserted his men…moreover so great a number of Gothic captives is said to have been made that…they were sold for an aureus a piece. But God did not allow anything to survive of this people, for immediately…all who were bought died. (Paulus Orosius, Seven Books of History against the Pagans 7.37.12).
Orosius presents Radagaisus as an overly cruel enemy, yet also portrays him as a coward of sorts following his defeat. Orosius also used this event to reassure his fellow Romans of God’s power, as he wrote his history following the sack of Rome by Alaric. And who better for God to demonstrate his almighty power against than a savage “barbarian” enemy that threatened the very heart of the now Christian empire. That being said, Radagaisus’ followers were almost certainly Christians themselves as the Goths had been introduced to Christianity before they even crossed the Danube, and the Goths already living within the Empire were Arian Christians. It also seems strange to describe someone as “the most cruel enemy” when they were easily defeated, and most of the survivors were either enslaved or conscripted into the military, unless of course you have your agenda, which Orosius absolutely did.
So to answer your question, the migrations did not cause the “fall” of the Roman Empire, because it was a lenhy and complicated process that involved numerous factors that all interacted with one another. In addition most historians now agree that the Roman Empire in the west never really “fell”, but instead transitioned into the various western European kingdoms that carried on its traditions. Alas, one of the reasons that so many people still view the migrations, or invasions as they are still sometimes called, is indeed partly because of the how the Romans themselves described these people and events. This is why we always have to be careful when reading ancient sources so we can decipher whatever biases the authors may have held, and why archaeology is such an important component of ancient history as artifacts can tell us things that were left out of the written accounts. Also I would like to apologize for not discussing primary sources in detail for this answer, I am moving in a couple of days so all of my books are currently in boxes. But I will include a list of sources that I used for my MA thesis, which is where a lot of this came from anyway. Nevertheless I hope it was at least partially helpful.
Paulus Orosius. Seven Books of History against the Pagans in The Fathers of the Church vol. 50. Translated by Roy J. Deferrari. Washinon D.C.: The Catholic University of America Press, 1964.
Halsall, Guy. Barbarian Migrations and the Roman West, 367-568, New York: Cambridge University Press, 2007.
Southern, Patricia, and Karen Ramsey Dixon. The Late Roman Army. New Haven: Yale University Press, 1996.
Heather, Peter. Empires and Barbarians: The Fall of Rome and the Birth of Europe. Oxford University Press, 2009.