He could also tell people he'll win the lottery tomorrow. Lots of people say lots of things. Take it with a grain of salt, or whatever is smaller and lesser than a grain. He's facing serious charges.
You should read my other comment on this thread. You are entitled to fair compensation under the criminal proceedings by the victims' rights laws for your state. You would not need to file a civil suit for this. I would recommend you read through the link I posted on my other comment of the victims' rights for your state. They're the same for all the other states I know of. Then come up with a list of what you want, and contact the prosecutors' office with your requests. Compensation from the criminal is a right guaranteed by law, and requires no expense from you.
You can also apply for a restraining order, and you could sue him in civil court for tort violations for damages, if you wanted to (though it may be unwise if you are neighbors or live in the same small town). Situational awareness and otherwise protecting yourself and your residence is the most effective prevention in my opinion.
If this doesn't work out for some reason, then you can look into civil court for tort violations and getting compensation for damages through that avenue.
Those could be relevant to his sentencing if he is convicted of the assault on you. They are not relevant to his guilt in that assault; none of them are even crimes against persons so they don't show a pattern of assault.
Habitual criminals who are accustomed to lenient prosecutorial policy are often flippant about the probability that they will ever be severely punished.
I also live in a very progressive city where petty crime committed by addicts traditionally goes unpunished; drug possession cases are always dismissed and burglaries are not investigated. Assaults with serious bodily injury, like yours, are when a habitual criminal actually risks some jail time.
In every state I know of, there are "victims' rights" laws in the state constitutions. In the states I know of, the victim has the right to consult with the prosecuting attorney, and a right to be heard at every hearing.
Yeah it’s a small town and I’m worried he will get out and come after me. It was completely random. Local druggie.