Possible? Yes. Certain? No. While we do not know Luo Dagang's age, he first appears in the record joining the Taiping in 1850. Even if we assume he was already well into middle age, he could only have been a child by the time Ching Shih's (really rather brief) career ended at the start of 1810. Subsequently, she was based at Macau until her death in 1844, and given that at this stage she was long pardoned and retired, it is implausible that she would have had much to do with new pirates.
In general terms, we know little about Luo Dagang's life before 1850 except for three things: one, he was born in Guangdong; two, it can be inferred that he rose through the ranks in the piracy networks of the Pearl River; and three, Luo was probably already a Christian convert when he joined.
As for his piratical career, we can only infer that he had achieved success, because simply put there is no explicit record of what happened at the time, only the results: him turning up with a handful of ships to support the nascent God-Worshippers in 1850. By this point, Luo Dagang was probably exclusively a river pirate given that the Royal Navy had more or less violently suppressed coastal piracy after the capture of Hong Kong Island in 1840. Ching Shih, on the other hand, seems to have operated largely in the Pearl River Delta, a more coastal stomping ground. Even when retired, it is unlikely Luo would have been performing much piracy in such a well-patrolled area as to cross paths with a retired Ching Shih.
Much as I'd like to skip to that tantalising latter point, let's go in order. Firstly, Luo mentioned himself that he was from Guangdong. While I cannot find the specific context for the source (though given later events, I would date this to late 1855/early 1856), in a passage quoted by Vincent Shih, Luo complains that Qin Rigang and Hu Yihuang, two generals who joined the Taiping at the same time he did, were promoted to wang (prince/king), while he himself had not even been promoted to their previous rank of hou (maruquis), asserted to be because he was from Guangdong while they were from Guangxi. Luo would in fact never receive such a promotion: in the annexes to Taiping general Li Xiucheng's testimonial statement in 1864, which include the transcripts of his interrogation by Zeng Guofan, Li was asked:
The tantalising third point comes from a letter by Luo to the British delegation to Nanjing under George Bonham in 1853, only available in translation as the original has presumably been lost:
This is the only explicit indication we have of what Luo Dagang was up to before 1850. What to make of it? Well, we can say with reasonable confidence that Luo was already a Christian convert by 1850. The Taiping rose in revolt at the start of 1851 with no further Western contacts since 1847, so this is probably happened before Luo was with the Taiping. At the same time, we can be reasonably sure it was after 1841, when the experience of the Opium War would have dissuaded the more active missionary suppression of earlier years. So for sure, Luo was in Guangdong at some point between 1841 and 1850, and not only had contact with three (otherwise obscure) missionaries [EDIT: Or, if he's referring to a very specific Elliot and Bremer, British officers], but indeed was a convert himself. But that doesn't mean he met Ching Shih, who by this point was comfortably retired right on the edge of the Pearl River region.
So, on the basis of this, no he didn't meet Ching Shih in all likelihood, but could have. Still, I'd comfortably say that Luo Dagang is interesting enough as he is without having met Ching Shih, even if his story tends to be an auxiliary component of the usual Taiping narratives.
111 can also be found in the appendices of C. A. Curwen, Taiping Rebel: The Deposition of Li Hsiu-ch'eng (1977). Curwen renders Li's response to the question about posthumous promotions as 'The matter is very confused. There is nothing one can say.'.
Franz Michael, Chung-Li Chang (eds.), The Taiping Rebellion: Documents and Comments (1971), specifically:
To expand a bit, what makes Luo quite unusual is that of all the river pirates who at some point joined the Taiping, only he and one other, Su Sanniang, remained with the Taiping. This has conventionally been used to argue that the Taiping were able to mobilise a little bit of Triad support even if they were broadly misaligned, but Luo being a convert throws that out the window. He's unlikely to have been a Triad member while a Protestant convert, so in fact the one river pirate who stayed did so because he most likely was not a Triad man!
You say Lou was passed over for promotions, and that he was already a Christian before joining the Taipings. Could it be because he was a catholic and the iconoclast Taipings were against that?
There's nothing to suggest that Luo was a Catholic. The names Bremer and Elliott suggest it was Protestant missionaries he was in contact with, not Catholics.
Just one more thing though, you say he would not have been an active triad because he was Protestant which makes sense, the ‘Heaven and Earth Society’ had a lot of Buddhist influences. But in ‘Popular movements & secret in societies in China.’ 1840-1950’ pg 76 it says Lou May a have attempted to make contact with the triad groups near Canton, so while he may not have been one is it possible he coordinated with some of them?
I’ve been writing a novel, an alternate history about the Taiping rebellion. And Lou is central Character and this has been extremely helpful. Thank u.
No worries. It's fun to do these little thought experiments sometimes, as the questions posed often have unexpected results – I learned a lot more about Luo Dagang in researching this answer!
The classic Philip Kuhn model would see the proliferation of river piracy as enabled by the collapse of imperial power at the local level, essentially the grassroots response to filling the power vacuum. From an ideological standpoint, Triadism was derived from Ming loyalist and similarly anti-Qing movements, so the extent to which these groups would actively want legitimation is questionable. At the same time, the reality on the ground was that affiliations could be quite fungible. The pirate known as 'Big-Head' Yang (or perhaps 'Big-Headed Ram') not only left the Taiping but indeed defected to the Qing and served as a consistent obstacle to the Taiping during their presence on the Pearl River. On the surface, though, one tended to be acting illegitimately or legitimately, not both at the same time. However, the exact dynamics of river piracy are not my forte, so I won't attempt to take my assessment much further than that.