The idea that the Famine was a genocide is entirely rejected by historians of Ireland, yet still persists in the popular imagination - akin to the Irish Slaves Myth. This perception is the result of several factors, but primarily the nationalist (and anti-British) narrative received from nineteenth- and early twentieth-century historians and authors, such as John Mitchel. He famously stated in his 1873 book The Last Conquest of Ireland (Perhaps) that "the Almighty, indeed, sent the potato blight, but the English created the Famine”, initiating the genocide theory. It’s this legacy of the Famine and its role as a defining nationalist moment, rather than the actual historical record, that has led to this narrative. This could partly be owing to a lack of historical engagement until the 1990s and the lag between academic findings and public perception. In addition, it's important to note that the definition of genocide has changed since the nineteenth century and Mitchel’s writing; it now has a very different meaning in the context of the Holocaust and WWII.
There had been a succession of smaller famines in Ireland from the 17th century onwards, but the Great Famine, or An Gorta Mór (and not the Potato Famine), was much, much worse and, in the words of Cormac Ó Gráda, was the product of an ecological disaster. It occurred between 1845 and 1852, a period in which approximately 1 million people died (mostly of typhus and diseases linked to starvation) and another million or so emigrated to the US and Britain. The population declined from 8.2 million in 1841 to 6.5 million in 1851 (1). By 1914, the population of the island of Ireland was c.4.5 million, half of what it had been in 1845, and it then stagnated for much of the 20th century. In the period 1845-55 alone, Timothy Meagher estimates that 1.5 million Irish went to America (2). Descriptions in contemporary newspapers and the responses to the National Folklore Collection’s () 1945 questionnaire on the Famine are harrowing; it had genuine negative psychological effects on the Irish population and should still be seen as the central event in modern Irish history.
(2) Timothy Meagher, ‘Irish America’, in Eugenio F. Biagini and Mary E. Daly (eds), The Cambridge Social History of Modern Ireland (Cambridge, 2017), pp. 497-514.
(1) Mary E. Daly, ‘Famines and Famine Relief, 1740-2000’, in Eugenio F. Biagini and Mary E. Daly (eds.), The Cambridge Social History of Modern Ireland (Cambridge, 2017), pp. 38-52.
John Crowley, Michael Murphy and William J. Smith (eds.), Atlas of the Great Irish Famine (Cork University Press, 2012).
In terms of apportioning blame, the claims of genocide stem from the inefficient government response. The Prime Minister, Peel, was slow to initiate relief in 1845 (because short famines were not uncommon): when he eventually took action it was to import grain from North America rather than to stop exporting food from Ireland - this is a major point of controversy as there was food in Ireland during the famine years, but nobody could have it. He also established public relief works, where people would work for money, e.g. building roads, to buy food. Then in 1846, the Liberal Lord Russell was elected PM; the Liberals’ core ideology was laissez-faire \- where the state should not interfere with the economy and society. Their response to the famine was therefore conditioned by this ideology and they simply let the free market take its course. As the crisis deepened, some measures were undertaken by Lord Russell but they proved inadequate. The public relief works were deemed a failure by January 1847 as people were too weak to work; the soup kitchens, established in February 1847, were a very effective response but they were brought to a close in October 1847 because the Government assumed the famine was over and because they didn’t want to spend the money; workhouses were provided under the Poor Law but were overcrowded; and private charity existed but it was no substitute for government relief, especially for the lenh of time the famine continued. At the time, the contemporary press reported that the government was not taking enough action but the blaming and claims of genocide only truly began in the 1870s with the emergence of the Land War. Actions taken by landlords during the famine - namely evictions and consolidation of land - caused extreme bitterness and were central to the Land War. The famine thus helped lay the foundation for the struggle for national independence. It also became the origin myth for Irish Catholics in America - a group who resented the British government and who played a central role in Irish nationalist politics.
The government response was ineffective, clearly, but the famine was not engineered by the British. It happened as a result of blight, it disproportionately affected the poorer Irish owing to their reliance on the potato, and the response was negligent and grossly mismanaged; there is no evidence that there was intent on the part of the British government to kill the Irish. But claims of genocide suited the nationalist narrative.
John Bew, ‘Ireland under the union, 1801-1922’, in Richard Bourke and Ian McBride (eds), The Princeton History of Modern Ireland (Princeton, 2016), pp. 74-108.
Enda Delaney and Breandán Mac Suibhne (eds.), Ireland's Great Famine and Popular Politics (Routledge. 2016).
Peter Gray, ‘The Great Famine, 1845-1850’ in James Kelly (ed.), The Cambridge History of Ireland, Volume 3, 1730-1880 (Cambridge University Press, 2018).
Cormac Ó Gráda, Ireland’s Great Famine: Interdisciplinary Perspectives (University College Dublin, 2006).
Here is the abstract: "The decision in 1847 to cut Treasury spending on public relief efforts during the Irish famine is generally attributed by economic historians to the pervasive influence of ‘laissez‐faire’ ideas on the Whig government of Lord John Russell. This article draws on the papers of political leaders and contemporary financial information to argue that economic reasons were the trigger for the change in policy. Robert Peel and Charles Wood's macroeconomic policies of the 1840s, including the gold standard, the Bank Charter Act, and corn law repeal, left the Whigs unable to borrow to finance relief efforts in Ireland without panicking markets. The scaling back of public assistance programmes that resulted from this—and which increased mortality at the height of the Irish famine—was the unintended result of Peel and Wood's economic policies, in the context of the Whig government's parliamentary weakness.".
I had not but I have now - thanks for the suggestion! I agree with your view and Read's article details it excellently; he argues that the inﬂuence of laissez-faire ideas doesn't give a complete explanation for the decisions that were made at the time and argues that the idea that the government’s economic policy during the famine was driven by ideological issues alone is unconvincing. Basically, there was a lot happening in Britain's economy that ended up having negative repercussions for Ireland, even if unintentional. The main reason I emphasise the impact of laissez-faire was to explain why government assistance wasn't extended beyond 1847 - even when it was obvious that the famine wasn't 'over' - in order to challenge the genocide argument.
Have you read Charles Read's 2015 paper in the Economic History Review on the causes of the decline in relief in 1847?
I think all too often "laissez faire" gets interpreted as entirely "do nothing at all" rather than "don't interfere with trade but provide relief employment for the able bodied and gratuitous relief for the infirm".