Your parents can nominate you as guardian of your brothers in their will. I say "nominate," because it is not legally binding. Ultimately, the probate court will decide, based on what is in the best interest of the minors. It is rare for a court to go against the parents' wishes, though, unless the nominated guardian is rally unsuitable.
Since you are relatively young, they may need to provide more justification about why you are the best choice.
What they should do is work with a probate or estate attorney to create a will that sets out thier wishes--including why they do not want some people to be guardians. The will should set up a trust for the children, and appoint you as the trustee.
If OP's parents are hospitalized, they may be able to get legal assistance through the hospital's social workers. This type of situation isn't that uncommon.
Although there are fill-in-the-blanks forms available, this isn't a good do-it-yourself project. Your parents want to e sure that it is all done according to their wishes, inclding your guardianship.
SECOND... What your parents say in your will about custody of your siblings \does not control\ the court. The court can take it into account. But, nothing is going to stop the court from acting in the best interest of the children (as best as it can determine.).
Yes. You parents should have an attorney who does this sort of work. It is \possible\ to do wills yourself (either with or without something like Quicken Willmaker or LegalZoom), but here's the problem with doing that: By the time you discover that you've screwed up, it's too later. As long as your parents do not have some weird situation (like a special-needs child, a lot of real estate or something), this is not expensive. Depending on how busy the lawyer is, it can take a day or two, or it can take a week. You should ask.
So, your parents should specify that you are to have custody. It would also be worth specifying that X, Y and Z are specifically NOT to have custody. And, it might be a good idea to explain why. Talk to the lawyer about this. Untying the money from custody may make the relatives less likely to seek custody.
THIRD, having custody does not mean that these relatives have control over the college fund. That's not a "best interests of the child" sort of thing. The specifics of how you keep it out of their control depends on how the money is saved. Again, talk to the lawyer.