Considering they spend most of 2022 importing VERY little and still able to export a lot as people worked to end reliance on them, the outlook is absolutely disastrous for them.
You can tighten the belt for a year and skip maintenance on stuff and break out the spare parts, but they're running on fumes at this point.
As great as it would be in the short term for Ukraine, having a country with thousands of nuclear weapons implode is not exactly something to hope for. Unless we’re going to limit climate change through nuclear winter.
All it takes is one person, in a breakaway state that has access to nuclear arms to believe the propaganda. And the exchange could only end in a coup in that breakaway state as someone who doesn't believe the propaganda that is also in a position to do something, and chooses to do that thing, or nuclear exchange with NATO.
so you can bet that despite how ridiculous it sounds, there are lots and lots of Russians that believe that there is a Jewish man who is head of state in Ukrane that is also simultaneously a Nazi, and that they are in fact in a war with NATO.
And, despite the fact that NATO forces are not actively in the war, the mere fact of supplying arms, support, and sanctions to support a Nazi regime is further proof of how its Russia against the evil of the world and is in a war with NATO.
-Leadership flees or has “accidents.” Remaining powers are the Balkanized remains of intelligence, regional governors “militias,” Chechnian autocracy, Wagner group, oligarchs, and various others, all with access to weapons and susceptible to outside influence as a struggle for power and resources begins.
-Out of the roughly 6,000 nuclear weapons that Russia has, it is inevitable that a few will end up split between factions. Probably at least hundreds will be taken.
-The ultimate trump card in any war is atomic weapons. Missiles, bombers, stored weapons, and boomers will become highly sought-after prizes that allow any group that grabs one to hold whole cities hostage.
-At least one idiot will pull the trigger. If it’s purely a localized detonation, then only hundreds of thousands die. If someone decides that punishing NATO, Europe, Ukraine, the US, or China (who will inevitably be pulling some strings) is more valuable than survival, then there will be a nuclear exchange. At that point, we become dependent on very cool heads to prevail.
Step 3) Stalin's heirs don't really believe in Communism, but are heirs to the machine he built and keep the machine pumping through sheer force of will.
So, far from certain, but the collapse of the Russian economy in its weakened political state could absolutely result in nuclear war.
step 2) Stalin's purges and swinging Communist Russia into a corrupt state of Yes Men fearing for their lives.
not to be an apologist for Putin. Dude is a sick MF, but it's not too difficult to see how Russia gets Putin, and loves him when you look at the collapse of communism and the 80's to 2000's.
step 4) Gorbachov becomes head of the government and pushes Russia back towards a more Lenin vs of Communism. What he believes to be a truer form of Communism.
I believe Yeltsin stabbed himself in the chest with scissors. While he was in the hospital he got called to the party HQ where everyone basically told him he was a poor excuse for a communist.
Step 5) Gorbachov is a policy person, but not a nuts and bolts economist and doesn't know what he's doing or how to properly unfuck the machine. See Step2 and 3. He blunders forwards anyway.
Step 6) Ritually humiliate a young Boris Yeltsin while he's recovering from a suicide attempt, and then later make him head of the Moscow government.
Step 7) as your economy collapses due to Steps 4 and 5, the policy changes Gorbachov implements allow Russian federations states to begin declaring independence.
Step 8) Due to Steps 2 and 3 your military and government is full of idiots and they try a coup without really knowing what to do to properly seize power causing complete chaos.
Step 9) Due to Step 6 and 8, Boris Yeltsin has an opportunity to seek revenge on Gorbachov, and being in control of the Capital and at least being charismatic is able to actually seize power from the incompetent coup attempt and also able to humiliate Gorbachov.
Step 11) Because Yeltsin is an idiot alcholic who really only cares at this point about sticking it to Gorbachov be sure to give away an Russian speaking areas in Ukraine as you secretely negotiate support for your government with several break away republics and define their borders.
Step 12) also due to Step 6, and the fact that despite his charisma, Yeltsin is also an idiot who doesn't know how to run a country (see Step 3), but also inheriting a fucking mess from Steps 4, 5, and 7 attempt to fast track the country into Capitalism.
Step 13) while attempting the Fast Track to Capitalism issue ownership bonds to all russian citizens that are partial ownerships in local industries (effectively force the birth of a stock market but give all citizens ownership in its stocks).
Step 14) since roughly 2/3 of the citizens are below the poverty line and you can't even get proper food in the grocery stores and your currency has collapsed, most of the citizens sell their private stocks for penney's on the ruple to get any money at all in order to buy food for their families. This is the birth of the Oligarchs.
Step 19) after 20 years of slow decline and chaos, there are jobs and goods flowing into the country. Step 17 and 18 look like a goddamn miracle and saviour has come.
Step 17) because of Step 16 you realize you're in extreme mortal danger, so you agree to appoint a well known and well connected fixer as your VP who will assume power a short while later as you step down. This fixer will agree to make sure you and your family are safe from reprisals from the Russian populace and from your political rivals. This fixer is Vladimir Putin.
Step 18) due to market pressures (ie N. American deregulation of the oil industry) the price of oil begins to climb allowing Putin to quickly raise the standard of living in Russia and lift Russia out of its economic collapse.
Step 15) Now that your economy has collapsed (see all previous steps), and the Russian people are angry at you for not really doing anything successful to help put food on their plates, and you're in danger of loosing the election, be sure to sell ownership of massive state owned oil, gas, and power companies to the oligarchs in exchange for cash and their support in the upcoming election.
Step 16) As your political rivals revolt against you (see Step 15) be sure to remove them from the political process by reverting to increasing dictatorship like behaviors and try to murder them, send the army after them, and rule by decree in order to stay in power.
Step 20) Consolidate control over the Oligarchs by making examples (ie murdering) several of them and siezing their wealth. The Russian population thinks you're doing a good thing by cracking down on Oligarchs who took advantage of them (steps 14 and 15) you look even more like a hero.
Step 16.5: Fire all of the elected officials in the fledgling parliament when they won’t just rubber stamp everything that the president wants to do. When they refuse to leave.