Awesome response, thank you so much for the time and trouble. Any follow up reading on the specific points that you lay out that you would recommend to a non-Chinese-reading person?
Were the Qing weak or strong at the time of the Taiping Civil War? I’m going to cheat a bit and say ‘both, but with caveats.’ The outbreak of the Taiping uprising in the first place, and the general failure of the Qing to contain the various uprisings that erupted across China in the 1850s, can be taken as little other than a sign of serious, near-crippling weakness. Yet over the course of the 1850s and 1860s, the Qing managed to return from the brink of collapse, which signals that the Qing state managed to achieve quite a significant expansion in its capacity for action as a result of the uprisings. I say ‘capacity of action’ rather than ‘strenh’ in general here, however, as there can and has been much ink spilled over the extent to which the Qing state could exercise effective control over its newfound resources.
Bear in mind, of course, that the empire's population had increased by more than half in this time – this means the per capita tax revenue had gone down by more than a third.
Militarily, the Qing state was little better off. While there were nominally 600,000 or so Han Chinese troops in the Green Standard Army, this figure is for many reasons misleading. First off, the Green Standard Army's function was in part to function as a sort of gendarmerie and auxiliary labour support for the civil government, as well as local peacekeeping. As such, by the 1840s the mobilisation of military resources was a normal and necessary part of provincial administration, and during the Opium War no province outside the two main areas of fighting (Guangdong and Zhejiang) spared more than 25% of its Green Standard garrison towards the war effort. On top of that, rampant corruption meant that a large number of troops (though exact numbers are unclear) existed only on paper. The Banner garrisons, meanwhile, were always quite thin in southern China, with the primary concentrations being in Beijing, Manchuria and Xinjiang, and although the Qing occasionally mobilised significant Banner formations during the Taiping War (most notably a mixed force of around 30,000 Banner and Mongol cavalry under Duolonga), the need to maintain the Banner population in their garrisons, both to keep the urban Han Chinese population in line and to avoid throwing them at the genocidally-minded Taiping, was quite palpable.
The Qing state's administrative capacity was also becoming strained. China proper had around 1100 county magistracies for a population of 450 million, meaning that an average sixth-rank magistrate had to deal with over 400,000 constituents. On top of that, the loyalties of the mandarins were increasingly questionable. Factional politics had played a deciding role in the buildup to the Opium War, and the war itself exposed a number of deep-seated problems with the imperial government, owing, in Mao Haijian's analysis, to an over-concentration of power in the hands of the emperor. Officials lacked the free scope to contradict imperial policy in either words or actions, and so in many cases resorted to actively lying to the emperor about military success while negotiating with the British without authorisation.
The delicate balancing act of Qing ethnic policy was also starting to crumble: in the linked answer I alluded to the Manchu commander Hailing's specific targeting of Han Chinese in the city of Zhenjiang as suspected fifth columnists, and to the Yunnanese ethnic violence, but these were not the only areas of ethnic tension. Xinjiang/East Turkestan, particularly in the cities of the Tarim Basin known collectively as Altishahr, saw particularly significant changes over the early 19th century, as supporters of the anti-Qing Afaqiyya Sufi sect led incursions from the Khanate of Kokand from 1822 onward, prompting the dispatch of Han Chinese military colonists to the region to bolster its defences. Over time, the Turkic haqim begs who nominally retained administrative control over their cities were increasingly sidelined by Manchu and to a lesser extent Han Chinese military officers. From the 1830s, Xinjiang was controlled through imposition, not accommodation as it had been after 1758.
The Qing state's first response to the revolt was, naturally, panicked desperation. Earlier I brought up that the Board of Revenue's minting quota was slashed by more than half, but on top of that, the coins were to be cast in zinc rather than copper. Mints were set up specifically for casting iron coins, and large-denomination issues of five- and ten-cash pieces were introduced. Officials with authority over customs began to ramp up efforts to secure revenues: Ye Mingchen, Viceroy of Guangdong and Guangxi, was able to extract 3.1 million dollars from the customs in Canton in 1852, an impressive sum given the amount of trade now going through Shanghai instead. Locally-organised tuanlian militias, always somewhat distrusted, nevertheless gained new legitimacy as the Qing authorised the formation of entirely militia-based armies in Hunan and Hubei in 1853.
These early emergency measures, however, presage the more systematic attempts by the Qing to tap into resources that had heretofore not been exploited. On the fiscal front, over the course of the 1850s, the Qing insituted three new measures: the lijin (or likin) transit tax, a massive expansion of its maritime customs, and the formal legalisation of opium. I haven't had much luck finding annual tax figures, but comparing the figures I have got for 1842 and 1885, we see the following:
While a postwar figure that is also reflective of a degree of general stabilisation, the 1885 tax returns nevertheless show how massive of an expansion of Qing revenues was necessitated by the war. But did the Qing state necessarily become 'stronger'? A more generous interpretation would see this as the Qing tapping into resources that it had simply not yet needed, but a more critical view might see these measures as involving a significant aspect of compromise to interests outside the Qing imperial state. Let's look at them one at a time.
Let's start with the period of weakness. Even before the uprisings began properly in 1851, the Qing state was in a pretty dire position. I brought up the unregulated over-minting of copper coinage in , but by the 1850s the problem is likely to have gone the other way: a combination of the massive depreciation of copper coin and, moreover, declining copper output in Yunnan (both due to exhaustion of known mineral reserves and due to growing inter-ethnic violence for control over them) meant that by the end of the 1830s, a number of provincial mints had significantly reduced their output or even been shuttered outright. In 1806 the combined annual quota of all the provincial mints (except Yunnan) totalled around 1 million strings of cash a year; by 1846 it had fallen to around 400,000. The Board of Revenue mint in Beijing, the main imperial mint, had a nominal quota of around 870,000 strings a year through this period, but that it was deemed realistic to slash this to 375,000 a year in 1854 suggests that the actual output had fallen short for some time already. Further compounding the state's fiscal troubles was that its tax system was completely out of date. Land tax quotas had been deliberately frozen by an edict of the Kangxi Emperor at the start of the eighteenth century, a decision reaffirmed by his grandson the Qianlong Emperor. Between 1772 and 1842, the empire's tax income actually declined (figures in millions of silver dollars, to the nearest hundred thousand):
Before continuing, it is worth digressing to mention that the relatively poor customs collection of the Qing state was not necessarily due to a failure of policy. In fact, Qing policy, like many Chinese dynasties, had been to allow economically disadvantageous trade relations as a means of creating a dependency on the part of the outside partners which would discourage military aggression. The most obvious case under the Qing would be the Kiakhta caravan trade with Russia created by the Treaty of Nerchinsk in 1689, whereby the Russians were allowed to sell Siberian furs (which the Manchus had plenty of already) at exorbitant markups, in exchange for the Russians guaranteeing their neutrality in the Qing-Dzungar conflicts and ceasing any diplomatic meddling in Mongolia.
Lijin was a tax on goods in transit, collected at regular intervals on commercial highways such as rivers, canals and major roads, initially set at 1% of the value of rice, grain and other staple goods, though this eventually expanded to encompass any goods moved on internal routes. Lijin collection was, crucially, devolved to provincial authorities, which much of the tax money going towards provincial expenditures, especially the militia armies. In theory, while this was all still happening within the organs of the Qing state, it was nevertheless a movement of some amount of fiscal power out of the imperial centre.
While legalising opium may have had a similar effect at first (insofar as it increased Qing leverage), unfortunately its effects would be short-lived. Opium imports peaked in the 1880s, but by that point opium production in China had far outpaced production in India, and the drug would remain a common feature of life in China until the Communist period.
But one added point here is that provincial revenues were much less subject to oversight by Qing authorities. While the maritime customs had direct links to the imperial centre and thus were relatively smoothly transferred, it has been estimated that some two-thirds of actually collected revenues across all of the Qing tax sytem went unreported, a sign of rampant corruption. To put it simply, a rise in capacity did not necessarily mean a rise in control.