Hi there - we're happy to approve your question related to your novel, and we are happy for people to answer. However, we should warn you that many flairs have become reluctant to answer questions for aspiring novelists, based on past experience: some aspiring novelists have a tendency to try to pump historians for trivia while ignoring the bigger points they were making, while others have a tendency to argue with historians when the historical reality does not line up with what's needed for a particular scene or characterization. Please respect the answers of people who have generously given you their time, even if it's not always what you want to hear.
Additionally, as amazing as our flair panel is, we should also point out that /r/AskHistorians is not a professional historical consultation service. If you're asking a question here because you need vital research for a future commercial product such as a historical novel, you may be better off engaging a historical consultant at a fair hourly rate to answer these questions for you. We don't know what the going rate for consultancy work would be in your locality, but it may be worth looking into that if you have in-depth or highly plot-reliant questions for this project. Some /r/AskHistorians flairs could be receptive to working as a consultant in this way. However, if you wish for a flair here to do this work for you, you will need to organize this with them yourselves.
While generally being a senator (more of a status than a job) was a lifetime thing, there were a few restrictions. A senator could be removed by a censor for immorality (however defined), perhaps for insufficient wealth (wealth restrictions change over time).
The senate of the late republic and early empire isn't really difficult, once you get used to looking at it as its own thing, and not some kind of elected legislative body that we're used to from the US senate.
Traditionally, the senate was a panel of former magistrates that advised the current magistrates. Former tribunes of the Plebs, although not being magistrates strictly speaking, are included by the middle republic in this body. Basically it's anyone who has won election to at least quaestor.
By 267, eight quaestors (the lowest qualifying magistracy) were elected each year, and that increased over time until under Sulla Rome had 20. So that's somewhere between 10 and 20 new senators per year, and that kept the senate somewhere around 300 by senators dying by old age or war, or retiring, or committing sufficient immorality for removal.
Augustus' restructuring of the senate included an increased property qualification to a million sesterces, which distinguished the senatorial class from the equestrian class, though election to quaestor was still needed to qualify.
During the republic there was a wealth requirement of 400,000 sesterces, and quaestors were elected by the tribal assembly. Strictly speaking, even with set wealth and age requirements, and things like a 10 year gap between holding the same office, the people could elect whomever they liked (see the career of Scipio Aemilianus, for instance). But failure to meet the wealth requirement was reason for a censor to remove someone from the senate.
Sulla changed the nature of the senate drastically. In addition to raising the number of quaestors 20 (possibly from 19 already), he just picked 300 people to be senators without election. In part, this gave him a significant number of clients in the senate, but he also made the senate the jurors of court cases. In fact, jury duty might have become the primary responsibility for senators at this point. He needed 600 jurors to staff the courts.
Caesar doubled the number of quaestors to 40. 40 new senators a year! So the number of senators over the next decade rose to 900, which Augustus reduced over three different revisions of the senate (senators in total, and number of quaestors elected). Augustus wanted to manage government through legates and not through elected magistrates.
So there was a wealth requirement, but one still had to be elected? That makes more sense. This answer helped a lot. Several questions though, how were magistrates chosen? Were they the same thing as governors of provinces (which I've sometimes heard were former senators)? Also, who elected the quaestors?
I'm curious about what you've been using for your research. I used the entries on quaestor and senate in the OCD for my dates and numbers. I would also suggest Lintott's book The Constitution of the Roman Republic. Flower's Roman Republics has a good chapter on the Sullan reforms of the senate, and explains some of the effects of his changes. The OCD cites, in addition, Syme The Roman Revolution, Talbert, The Senate of Imperial Rome, probably most useful, and other books as well.
Other magistrates were also elected by either the tribal assembly, the centuriate assembly, or, in the case of the tribune of the plebs and the plebeian aediles, the plebeian assembly.
Quaestors weren't high enough to be provincial governors; but they served as financial officers for governors, and if there were not enough elected quaestors to fill the job, a proquaestor (literally, someone acting in place of a quaestor) could be appointed.
During the period after Sulla, most provincial governors were propraetors or proconsuls, again literally people acting in the place of consuls and praetors.