Hopefully OP paid for owners title insurance. OP certainly paid for the lender's title insurance (assuming there was a mortgage) but the owners insurance is usually optional.
Even if the OP does not have owner's title insurance, the title / escrow company should have found the lien (given that it was recorded correctly). I would suggest pushing the title / escrow company on this point - in that the lien was the prior owner's (sellers) responsibility and should have been satisfied out of the proceeds from the sale.
The only other recourse to the OP is to sue the seller in small claims court (which has a limit of $15,000).
I'm a real estate agent in NJ as all the others have said call your title insurance first, and see what they say. Most likely scenario will be that title will pay it off, and then sue the previous owner. it.
Now as for your other question. All liens run with the property it self. If it changes ownership, and the lien was not paid off then the new owner would assume the lien. None of this is to scare you. As this is unlikely, but just for your information.
If you don’t have owners insurance, send a copy of what you received to your lender. Your lender in this scenario will be VERY interested in anything which is supposedly senior to its security deed - your security deed should be first priority in the title records and if not (as your outline suggests), your lender will make a title claim that its policy will cover. Absent unusual circumstances, the lender will have a title policy that you paid for as part of the closing.
First, find your closing documents, particularly the closing disclosure statement that shows the money coming in and out from closing day. If you have any paperwork from your purchase, you’ll have this one.
Look for anything which indicates “owners title policy” or “owners title premium”. Our firm default is you have this unless you opt out, but YMMV. If you do, great news - you’re likely covered. Reach out to the firm who did your closing for a copy of your title insurance policy to make a claim, or find a GA real property attorney who will do this on your behalf.