When I say plagiarism, this is what I mean… in the self evaluation, the employee writes their self critique of their own performance. The employee’s manager then responds in a correlating section, with their response to the employee’s self-evaluation statements. My supervisor did not do that. She just copied and pasted my statements about myself, and placed it in her manager’s section. No feedback. No justification. Just word for word copy/paste. And to add insult to injury, when I looked at the name of the rater, it was listed as a HR director. And they use a fully automated system.
I fully understand that. My concern is this… people work hard. And they should be fairly compensated and evaluated based on the work they produced. If someone produces above or beyond the expectations of the organization, but an employer deliberately low rates them low just to save money and avoid paying fair wages, then they have effectively contributed to the financial demise of their employees. In this case we’re talking hundreds of employees, but if there is no accountability for employers to fairly evaluate their employees then we could be talking about thousands or tens of thousands of employees across the country. So this is not about me and I could care less about pissing off the people at the company. This is about fair and equitable compensation for the working class.
What's your legal question, what's the legal issue? And no that's not plagiarism, that's a perk of lazy management that benefits you. (Also plagiarism is not inherently illegal.).
I don't think so. Self-evaluations are intended to make sure that you and your manager are in agreement as far as your performance goes. It sounds like you're on the same page. It may be unprofessional of her, but I don't think it would raise any eyebrows. The drinking and having you over to her house, on the other hand....
I don’t think we’re on the same page. It’s all very unethical and unprofessional. There should be laws that hold employees accountable for things like this.