In a conviction. A plea of no contest means that you are not contesting anything the state says, you're simply not admitting guilt. If the court accepts that plea, it will find you guilty. If your friend has pled no contest, your friend has ensured that he will be convicted of whatever offense he was accused of.
The only real benefit to pleading no contest, is that a no-contest plea cannot be used in a subsequent Civil Trial against you. However if you plead guilty, that plea could be used against you in the Civil Trial. If there is no Civil Trial, there is no real benefit to pleading no contest.
My friend is planning on suing the woman+family and even the city. He's said he needs to wait for his current circumstances to end whereby he'll begin to sue the living shit out of people, as he can't be deposed.
Since his case will end in a conviction, I assume lawyers are trying to reach deals behind doors, but could he end up being sent back to jail? I know it depends on the evidence and everything, none of which my friend will share with me. He seems certain his house arrest will end and he will begin his civil law suits.
Why does he believe he can't be deposed? And on what grounds would he sue the city? He was arrested for an offense and never challenged the State's evidence (the no contest plea). He will be in a very poor place to sue anyone. He will learn all this when he speaks to a civil attorney.
As to whether he does jail time will depend on what deal he made with the State. (And yes, he already made a deal with the State, he just isn't telling you everything.).
I know he isn’t telling me anything. All he’s said is he needs to wait for his current criminal charge to be…???, and then he plans on suing the family who he believes tried to have him killed. He told me his lawyer has a civil team ready to sue, and apparently his lawyer believes there is good evidence to sue. I don’t know about being deposed, it’s the first time I’ve heard the term used. My friend is extremely alpha and won’t share the whole story but is sure he is going to win his lawsuits and sue for all they have.