Palestinian terrorists are just like Russian soldiers. They always attack the weak, the innocent and the defenseless. They even go after children. Fucking cowards.
There is no apartheid happening there, stop misusing that word. The person you replied to is also wrong, it isn't a war zone. It's a town where terrorists were hiding. We still don't know conclusively who shot her or what their motives were. The IDF was fired upon by terrorists when trying to apprehend a person who was involved in murdering innocent civilians over the summer. People who like to accuse Israel of committing apartheid also like to leave that last part out.
This is a completely incorrect view of the situation in general, in this specific case it is even more wrong. The person kidnapped was not Jewish, he was Druze.
His family was there when it happened, they say he was still alive and on life support, meaning they disconnect him and killed him in the process of kidnapping him.
Feel free to provide specific examples of how Israel is committing apartheid and we can discuss the example and the context behind it. You'll find that the accusation quickly falls apart.
HRW is biased against Israel and that report doesn't actually prove there is apartheid. Even the part you quoted doesn't cite examples of apartheid and provide context. The report is anti-Israel garbage just like the AI one and various UN reports.
They could have been recognized in 1948, but chose to attack Israel instead along with their allies and lose. After, Jordan annexed the WB and Egypt occupied Gaza. The never had anything resembling a government until the PLO was created in 1964, even to this day they don't have a functioning government, and are split.
Because they lost their right when they attacked and Israel is not going to take in a population that has grown by several million, which will completely change the culture of their country. That would be cultural suicide. Many Palestinians have lived in Jordan and Egypt for 70 years, they should make lives there.
Jews didn't own as much land because historically in the Ottoman empire they were not allowed to. Most of the land was uninhabited, so your comment makes it seem like Arabs owned 93% which is not true. On top of that, the land is not comparable, most of the land given to Israel was a mostly uninhabited desert, the Arabs were given most of the farmable land. The only people minus a few small outpost in the Negev were Bedouins, who largely still live there(others were kicked out of Gaza by Hamas), one thing it did give Israel was access to the Red Sea, which they would not have been able to survive as a country with out. I find it really diingenous to hear people talking about the division of land, without them understanding anything about the land, not all land is equal and most of the land Israel got was pretty terrible. It's not much different to when Republicans show maps of America and say, "look more land votes Republican".
That road is an example of Israel's very real security situation due to a long history of attacks against Israel. It is there to deliver people who can enter Israel efficiently without clogging up the road with those that can't. In short it is a sovereign country controlling its border and that is not apartheid. I recommend you go learn what an actual apartheid is so you are better equipped in this conversation.