In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
This is how it works for most people in the US who have a single source of income and no major life events during a given year, to be fair: most people slightly over-withhold and get a small refund from the government.
They've had enough time to correct my tax stuff after it turns out my employer didn't do withholdings for a year and didn't tell me, but I'm just a tiny nobody and it probably took them 5 seconds to come squeeze me for my unemployment funding back.
We just have to go through this extra step where we pay $40 for software to tediously recalculate a bunch of numbers the government is already well aware of. It's...extremely stupid. I feel like if you look at everything good that modern nations do, ask yourself, "how can we make this somewhat worse for the average person so that it helps rich people?" and then apply the answer, you have the USA. But, hey, we're free to turn our homes into armories, if we want, so...totally...worth?
In the UK it comes out of your salary automatically, no confirming needed. If you have underpaid at the end of the tax year, you pay the difference. You're more likely to overpay though and get a check in return which is nice.
I dunno, but it seems like they should do the big guys first? Maybe we should spend a little of that defense budget on more IRS guys to do those folks? Maybe??
Yeah, which is exactly what I'm going to do. Plus, they're right, though that doesn't make it feel any better, hah. Sad that the reason I've got to kick them back 2.5k buckos is because my workplace decided to be lazy jerks.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Yeah, I didn't realize they could suspend withholdings over COVID so I got hit with that after the fact. I do direct deposit so I didn't even notice it at the time. I've got the money but goddamn.
"Fund the IRS!" would almost certainly backfire but it would be gratifying to see the biggest tax dodgers handled while the rest of us benefitted more from the leeway they seem to have gotten used to.
Don't read too much into my comment, I'm just cranky that when I've got too much income I can play shell games with it to make the IRS happy to ignore me, but when there's a tiny error they're both months late to tell me but apparently knew immediately--versus the bozo the article is about being obviously a tax cheat and everyone rightly believing almost nothing will ever happen.