It is entirely up to you. Your total fees should only be around $125 to file and serve. Once there you present your evidence and hope for the best. But actually collecting any judgement can be a whole new can of worms if you win. North Carolina has an excellent guide to filing in small claims court at:
The first thing you'll want to understand about small claims court is that you need to bring evidence.
Do you have anything (e.g. email, texts, written document) that either states this is a temporary loan or that shows your friend acknowledging that you are owed money?
If you don't and if your friend even shows up to court, how are you going to show this isn't a gift? Because that's what he will probably claim.
Going to small claims court costs money, and unless you have proof, you run the risk of throwing more money at this problem.
I do have multiple messages of me requesting the money from him and him saying he couldn’t give it to me because he had car problems and that he’d get it to me soon (that was two months ago now). I also have documentation of the hotel room purchase and multiple times of me asking him for the money since then.
I also have a couple of people that went with us who could testify he brought hundreds of dollars to the convention after not paying me and blowing it to the point of literally having to borrow money from one of them to pay for parking so that he could leave the hotel I paid for him to stay at.
Then you go to his home, or bank, (with the sherrif) and collect either cash or items that you can sell valued at what you're owed.
Then you'll wait to see if he pays. If he doesn't after a reasonable period of time. You take him back for failing to pay. The judge should give you a collections order you can provide to the sheriff.
First win a judgement. The judge will tell him to pay you x amount (should be what he owes plus court costs. Make sure you asks for court costs.).
There is another way to think about this. That person isn't your friend. Most likely, they never have been, and you are finding that out right now. It cost you $600 to discover that fact, and that person will avoid you for the rest of their life.
I would suggest not bringing people to court to testify that he had money at the convention. The judge won't care about money he had or how he spent it, only money he owes you when you walk into court.
These laws vary by state, but in general, the person who is responsible for collecting the judgement is you. If he refuses to pay after a judgement, you will spend more money and time to collect it.
There is an old saying: If you loan money to a friend, you risk never seeing your money or your friend ever again.