In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Staff members of the House Administration Committee confirmed that members and their guests are not required to be screened.
As we saw on Jan 6, capitol police mark their guns for the plane suit teams. Anyone not in uniform or with a marked gun who has a firearm in the building is at risk of being shot if they draw or brandish their weapon in any way in an emergency.
And no that doesnt mean legislators should be given marked guns. They likely do not have the emergency training and, frankly, given that some are calling for a "national divorce" its not unimaginable that a member of congress could be an attacker/shooter.
I'm confused if this is an argument that having Congress members being armed in the capital building would have prevented this? Wouldn't more guns make it worse?
You dont get to bring your own gun into the white house. You dont get to bring your own gun into the supreme court. You shouldnt get to bring your own gun into congress.
You're all over the place. Every single NRA meeting is gun free regardless of the speakers. Shootings happen all the time at ranges, generally not "mass" whatever that even means.
"WASHINGTON — Staff S. Aquilino Gonell recently retired from the U.S. Capitol Police after he was injured in the Jan. 6 attack. But he remains worried about one, seemingly small, security gap on Capitol Hill that could lead to a big problem.
Armed security for securing Congress? Yeah, that's fine, these people are both trained and on the clock. It's troubling that it would be confused with why Congress members need to be packing the same heat as their campus security? Are they afraid of the people who defended them from the January 6th mob, of which a number of members of Congress agreed with? I don't think we need to complicate the jobs of staff security by adding random Congressional guns into the mix on the floor of Congress. From people who aren't trained with guns in any meaningful context. Aren't they even allowed to have their guns in their offices? Why would it need to be on the floor?