Its kind of ironic that Wilson was seen as 'pro-Britain'. I guess once you commit to the war at all, that can be seen as pro-British. However actually reading Wilson, he does not seem pro-British at all. He seemed to do everything he could not to get engaged with Britain and seem to almost prefer Germany. His opinion of the 'traditional' imperialists was incredibly wrong and he thought destroying the empires was of major importance.
The end of World War 1 was essentially a period of worldwide turmoil. Newly-built nations like Poland and Greece engaged in immediate territorial conflicts with their neighbors. Every belligerent European power was wracked by massive strikes and insurrections organized by workers who saw inspiration in the Bolsheviks' success in Russia. Munich, Budapest, Berlin, and even Limerick in Ireland saw armed workers seize much of the city and declare short-lived workers' republics. Meanwhile, nationalists of regions not released in the WW1 peace, such as Ireland and Ukraine and Russian Central Asia, declared their own wars of independence against their governments. Far-right nationalists Italy were furious at a perceived lack of wartime gains, and formed the first fascist movement to correct that. In Germany, the Nazi Party lost its postwar bid for power but successfully reorganized into a parliamentary movement which a decade later took power alongside the Italian fascists. Most old monarchies had been pushed over, and those that remained seemed to be on their shakiest ground since 1848, or even the time of the French Revolution. Literally everywhere, radicalism was emerging to the forefront of global politics.
America's own socialists, who at this time were largely enmeshed within the general labor movement, demanded new freedoms and rights for the working class. Anarchists especially planted hundreds of bombs across American cities, targeting right-wing politicians and major capitalists. While this militancy had begun well before WW1 (Los Angeles workers blew up the Times headquarters in 1910), it came to a head during the 1919 recession. The federal government responded to this with extreme force. New laws were passed restricting workers' organization, and being a socialist was rendered all-but illegal. Blaming this upswing in worker militancy entirely on immigrants from Europe, hundreds of well-known labor organizers such as Emma Goldman were deported to the countries of their birth.
First, the end of the war marked the immediate shutdown of munitions plants, leaving many out of work and causing a brief but severe economic recession. The breakout of the Spanish flu, which killed nearly 700,000 Americans, also contributed to a net shrinkage in GDP and caused many businesses to shutter. (Sound familiar?) But what really caused voters in 1920 to demand normalcy was not this crisis itself, but instead the social and political forces that responded to it.
World War 1 also coincided with the first Great Migration, when millions of African Americans migrated out of the South and into Northern cities, most prominently Chicago, New York, and St. Louis. Many of them worked in factories that had been previously staffed by white workers who had been drafted. Some whites also panicked at the thought of "upjumped" black servicemen demanding social equality after returning home. So, when the war ended ant many urban whites returned, white people targeted blacks in race riots marked by extreme violence. Hundreds of African Americans were killed across America's cities at the close of World War 1, with white-on-black racial violence only escalating across the 20s. The most famous race riot, better-known as the Tulsa Massacre, wasn't until 1921. A newly-reformed Ku Klux Klan enforced campaigns of racial terror all across the United States, using the law to keep black people out of towns and neighborhoods where they could not live and using bombs and nooses and burning crosses to keep black people out of places where they could.