A will only matters if the author has died. If it's your father's will, he can change it or remove you from it at will, or sell his own property that's devised by his will, without involving you.
TaterSupreme is correct - if you're being asked to sign something in connection with the sale, you have a legal interest, here and now, in the house, and may want to talk to a lawyer before you sign off on waiving that interest. Given that your father got anxious when you said you were having it reviewed, that "may want to" is "absolutely should:" having lawyers review documents during a sale of real estate is normal, and it's suspect that he's uncomfortable with it.
If all else fails, say you're coming over to sign it, pick up the physical document, and walk out the door. Take it to a lawyer without signing it and get it reviewed, promptly, and then either return it unsigned or sign it and bring it back.
I’m trying to get them to email the document to me. My brother is trying to get me to sign because my dad earned the money, not me. Brother is doing it out of some moral principle. I’m waiting on it because I think there’s a way to go about this without signing legal documents.
This won't make you any friends, but I'm serious about how suspicious your father's behaviour is. Better that you bruise some egos and know for sure what you're getting into.
That’s what I was thinking. Problem is, I can’t drive because I had a seizure on the interstate and wrecked my car. There’s no way for me to escape if I’m in the same room with them. Is there a way to get that document elsewhere?
It would obviously be better to be honest, and to talk to your father and get a copy for review. If he wants your signature, ultimately he has to work with you - you can say no, and if that scuttles the deal, that's his problem, so he has some incentives to work with you. However, his behaviour as you describe it doesn't fill me with optimism that he sees things that way.
It is very reasonable to request a document to be reviewed by someone before signing it and this makes my fraud hairs stick up.
Is there a way to get an attorney to come with me? My brother acted like I was Satan for not wanting to sign. He said my dad was crying because he’d essentially be homeless if I didn’t sign.