I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Title: Major things that US citizens (w/in the US) investing in foreign stocks/bonds need to consider from a taxation and legal POV?
This is something you need to ask an accountant or tax professional with experience in such matters, as it is an extremely complicated subject, and getting it wrong could cost you a significant (and quite possibly life-altering) amount of money in fines and penalties.
If you want to invest in foreign equities simply for diversification purposes, the best approach might be to purchase US-domiciled mutual funds which contain such assets, as there are far fewer complications with that approach. If you want to directly invest in foreign assets or funds, you should carefully consider whether doing so is worth the additional hassle and the potential risks of being out of compliance with US tax law, and you should seek professional advice on the matter if you do decide to go through with it.
One of the biggest pitfalls is the realm of "passive foreign investment companies", or PFICs. Many mutual funds and similar foreign investments would fall under the definition of a PFIC. Investments in a PFIC are not only subject to significantly higher taxes in the US than domestic investments, but also have which might end up costing you thousands of dollars a year in tax preparation fees. The regulations consider Form 8621 an extension of , and as such, failure to file a Form 8621 correctly and completely for each PFIC in which you hold investments or shares can result in five-figure penalties.
Also, depending on the value of your foreign assets and investments, you may need to file Form 8938 itself even if none of your investments are in PFICs.
You must also report all foreign financial accounts to the Treasury Department using if you have more than a certain threshold of foreign assets. Willful failure to file an FBAR can result in penalties for each unreported asset of about $130,000 or half the value of the unreported asset in question, whichever is greater.
There may be other reporting and tax requirements involved in other types of foreign assets as well, which is why you really need to seek professional advice about the specific assets you are considering investing in and how to go about it in the most tax-efficient way.
In most cases, for ordinary retail investors, investing directly in foreign funds or shares or other foreign investments probably isn't worth the hassle and potential expense. There are plenty of US-domiciled funds and products which offer exposure to various mixes of international equities and other foreign assets and don't come with the burdensome tax reporting requirements or other difficulties that directly investing in foreign assets often brings. You might want to look into what options would be available to you in that area to build the overall portfolio you're aiming for before you consider going directly overseas on your own.