2. My dad and his girlfriend drink every time I'm there, and usually have sex...and I have to put my earbuds in so I don't hear it. He knows I've heard them before...it was brought to his attention before but they still do it.
They’re critical of you being on your phone and playing video games? Is it because you’re playing the games all day?l or on your phone all day? What comes across as criticism may be their attempt at trying to get you to do other activities, such as spending time outdoors, with friends, or with them. Maybe you can find a way to reconnect with your dad and spend time doing things together vs what is happening now.
Him and his girlfriend are always critical towards me playing video games and being on my phone. I ALWAYS get depressed when it's his weekends and I have to go there.
And what does your mom say about all of this? Make sure both of your parents understand your concerns.
Spending time with your dad is important, maybe you should ask him if you two can spend some time alone on the weekends without his girlfriend. Invite him to play a video game with you. Go outside and play a sport or go for a walk together.
My dads girlfriend makes comments about me being on my phone, even when I'm not. We will be at a family gathering and she will just have to say something (she makes other comments too) . I've asked my dad to go on walks, sometimes he says yes, sometimes no, just depends. We have played video games together, its usually fun.
I would talk to your dad more about the girlfriend/comments. I know it can be hard for kids and adults to adjust to new significant others.
I’m willing to bet if you ask your dad to go on a walk or spend time with you/play video games, he will. I understand you’re frustrated and things aren’t the best, but it really is important for you to spend time with both of your parents. If you talk to your dad I am sure he will listen to your concerns. Give it a shot.
3. The house is sort of gross. They have a dog and cat, so they shed a lot of hair (which is normal) but there is an unusual amount of human hair everywhere. Downstairs, upstairs, in the bathrooms etc. I don't even shower there anymore because I would have human hair on me after using the towels. The towels I have, they have nasty brown stains on them.
Yeah, but it's gross and irritating when I have to put my earbuds in and turn them up loud because I can hear what's going on. I get nervous when they get drunk.