You can file any document that is proper, representing only yourself. However, knowing what documents are proper at any given stage is one of those things you learn in law school, and filing something at the wrong time can very well mean it gets ignored. Family courts are normally pretty forgiving of procedural mistakes, but if the judge is out of patience with you, they may not be willing to accommodate you further than the rules required any more.
A "self-prepared affidavit" is almost certainly out of order unless you're submitting or responding to some motion where an affidavit is appropriate.
You can generally request a complete copy of the case file from the clerk, which will include the filings and orders issued so far. You may have to pay a per-page copying fee.
Way beyond the scope of a Reddit question, but odds are very good that you're misinterpreting the relevant rules and laws.
The clerk should be able to give you the court's upcoming hearing schedule, or tell you about hearings scheduled on your case. However, you're generally expected to keep track of them - the court or the other party will notify you of hearings at their request, and the court will tell you when hearings you request are scheduled. The clerk is not there to keep your calendar for you, and if you regularly ask for calendaring help they may well get short with you.
Neither the clerk nor your social worker nor the DA will explain the judge's rulings to you. The judge _can_, but usually their reasons are in the ruling itself, and few judges are inclined to give petitioners additional explanation more than once or twice. If you believe there's a legal error, you can force the issue on an appeal, but it's on you to explain your legal analysis, and… again, that's a thing you learn in law school. You're unlikely to prepare a successful appeal on an issue of law without a legal education, and you might waste your single opportunity to appeal by doing so.
If you feel that some party is in violation of a court order, you can file a motion for an order to show cause or its equivalent. The judge can rule on whether to hold the hearing, and based on the hearing, whether they are actually in contempt or not. You cannot decide for yourself that they are in contempt, and if the judge is satisfied with their reasons or that they are complying, then your discontent with their actions will not matter.
I don't believe I am misinterpreting the relevant rules and laws. I am taking them at face-value, black letter by black letter.
I have only spoken to the clerk twice. Once to ask about the date of an upcoming hearing, and once to file a response to a motion with an affidavit of rebuttal.
My daughter and I were/are domiciled in California and were visitors to the state of Nevada when she was taken from me. I currently live in California. They have her in a foster home in Nevada.
I have been trying to retain counsel for a while now. Either they tell me they do not work on cases like mine, or they are ridiculously expensive. My options are seriously limited. &then, would I retain counsel here in California or there in Nevada where they have her and where the proceedings take place?
I do not have a "formal legal education", however, I have been understudy to a licensed bar attorney as well as another self-represented litigant with an excellent track record, especially in the area of appeals. This area of the law was not a focus of those sessions, unfortunately.
They have motioned to terminate my rights. I was supposed to get a hearing on that since three court dates ago, but every time it was just continued for another day, and actually, as of right now, the judge has ordered a review hearing instead of a hearing on the motion to terminate my rights. So I'm a bit confused on that. The hearing on the motion was not necessarily cancelled, but I was sent orders on an ex parte hearing that included an order for review in January. I fired the public defender I did have appointed since the beginning of the case, because she would not stand up for me in court to defend me against hearsay. Since I fired her, would they deny me the chance at getting a different public defender?
I really don't see how or why the clerk may be intolerant of me, I haven't given them any trouble. As for the judge, I did recently bring up the question of jurisdiction and appropriate venue which he didn't seem to happy about, but it is a question that does need to be addressed expeditiously as far as I understand.
Right, well, would they deny me a second public defender since I fired my first public defender? &actually, I didn't even fire her, after an email about my expectations of her, she stepped down in court, telling the judge that I was competent enough to handle my own case.
It would be a _huge_ mistake to build your sense of righteousness around your confidence that you understand the law correctly. It's a recipe for frustration when the results don't go the way you expect. Confidence is cheap and easy to come up with, but it doesn't _help_ you - or your daughter - unless it's founded in some level of professional ability and tempered with a lot of humility.
Since you don't have the professional background, your best ally, by miles, is going to be a competent attorney. You fired one that was provided for free, and you are within your rights to do so, but whether you like it or not, if you proceed without a lawyer you are all but guaranteed to flounder and to have an unsatisfying outcome - probably for the remainder of your daughter's childhood.
If you want to next see her when she's 18 and can make her own choices, the best way to ensure that would be to go through a dependency proceeding without a lawyer on your side. I know that's not what you want to hear, and I know that a lawyer is going to be a much larger expense, but that's the reality of your situation. If you want to get your daughter back, spend your energy finding someone to represent you at a price you can manage.
The Nevada Courts do have , and you may be eligible for legal aid and/or a second crack at a public defender.
You really need to understand case law and administrative procedures to understand how rules, regulations and law are going to be applied, and how they intersect with the US and Nevada Constitutions. As for "international standards for child rights", almost all of the ones the US is a party to are aspirational, the rest the US is not a part of. If the US is actually a party to an international treaty that governs your child's rights in a way that will help you, it will be codified in the United States Code. You can't just demand your child back "according to the 1996 Convention of the Rights of the Child Not To Eat Broccoli" or whatever standard you think applies.
What I can tell you is that 90% of the people I've met making the claims you've made are not complying with the court orders and DCFS mandates and then shocked that they're not getting their way in court. That said, if a DCFS mandate is unreasonable, you have to show the court how it's unreasonable, and self-represented litigants tend to fare very poorly at doing that.
If they are terminating your rights, your child has been removed for months and you haven't made progress towards reunification AND you are showing that you aren't likely to make significant process soon. The state has also shown that returning your child is still not in their , and .
It sounds like your child was removed by DCFS? If you're at risk of losing parental rights you may be entitled to a public defender and you should try to get one if you absolutely can't afford a lawyer on your own. If your rights are terminated there is no second chances. This isn't something you should be trying to do yourself.
That would be part of the problem, then. Interpreting laws and procedural rules requires looking at past cases and seeing how the courts have responded to various arguments about how the law should be interpreted. If you get two people into a room to read the law "letter by black letter," it'll be about five minutes before they find something they disagree with each other about, and in most cases those disagreements have already been addressed somewhere.
Your best bet is to follow all court orders and case plan directives (and document you have done so), show that reunification is in the child's best interests, and/or show clear ways the state is not making reasonable efforts to reunify.