Very few ancient texts come from excavations. A few very minor papyri finds have produced new texts, but the vast majority of ancient texts come to us via the manuscript tradition: essentially, ancient texts were copied and recopied dozens of times from the end of antiquity down through the Renaissance. We have very very few truly "ancient" texts, and there is a "dark" period from the end of antiquity (the 4th century CE) down to the early 9th century CE from which we have virtually no texts. Starting in the 9th century, we have a few texts, and then many more from the 10th century, and then even more than that in subsequent centuries. Those early 9th- and 10th-century texts were copies themselves of even earlier versions, now completely lost, which were themselves copies of copies of copies of even earlier versions, also lost, stretching back into the late Roman period. You get the idea. We do have papyri, ancient paper with writing, but nothing like whole books. It is mostly fragmentary, and mostly comes from Hellenistic and Roman Egypt. Many fragments indeed do contain bits of Homer, but the text as we have it as a whole comes from the copying tradition, not from archaeological finds of ancient paper.
For Homer's Iliad, we have lots of manuscripts from the early medieval period onwards: nearly 200, which is an embarrassment of riches when it comes to ancient texts' manuscript traditions. Some other texts survive by just a single manuscript, like the collected poems of the Roman neoteric poet Catullus. Had some disaster befallen that lone manuscript in the early medieval period, the modern world would have no Catullus poems at all.
Probably the "best" early manuscript of the Iliad is the 10th-century "Venetus A" of Venice. Like all the others, it is a copy of a lost earlier version, but it is a very nicely made and very carefully produced copy. Many of the manuscripts preserve not only the Greek lines of poetry themselves, but also the scholia, which are notations written by ancient scholars, sort of like footnotes. These scholia were dutifully recorded and recopied along with the Greek poem itself. Many of the manuscripts often include running prose translation of the Greek lines, sometimes sandwiched between the lines.
The various extant manuscripts of Homer form a sort of family tree, with a few primary copies spawning several descendent copies with minor differences. The primary copies are not identical, but similar in content for the most part: sometimes the extant copies disagree or have variant readings for particular lines or sections. Sometimes whole chunks are omitted from this or that manuscript. Sometimes, we get lucky and we find ancient papyri which have lines of Iliad that are slightly different from the Iliad we have preserved via the manuscript tradition. It is usually not anything drastic, but little changes to verbiage or adjectives and the like.
What I have described is the same scenario for any ancient text, be it a play of Sophocles or a book of history by Tacitus.
Is there any particular reason why all texts from 4th to 9th century disappeared ? That's 500 years worth of copies !
Where there less copyist during that period, or maybe a change in paper production to make it more durable ? A cultural effect of "preserving old books"?
I agree with the other responder that the Carolingian revival plays a big part, as do changing habits. The 9th-century manuscripts survive because copies of ancient texts were being treated in a different way, and being stored in different places, which allowed them to survive long enough to be "rediscovered" by early Renaissance figures like Petrarch. Petrarch and his assistants scoured the countryside churches of Europe in search of manuscripts, many of them barely clinging to existence in damp, ruined basements beneath rural French abbeys. The moment of preservation is not the 9th century, but the 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th centuries, when those very old manuscripts were found, copied, and "saved" from oblivion.
Where are you getting your suggestion that the Carolingian Renaissance was not important for the production of texts but only for the storage of ancient texts? That is certainly not what I find in a general (if already rather antiquated) introduction like Reynolds and Wilson, who emphasise rather the production of new copies of classical texts as key to the Carolingian preservation of classical latin texts:
Certainly, from a qualitative perspective, there is a consistent growth from the 9th century forwards, but if anything it is the 12th century that really sees an explosion of production. (For texts that survive in more than 50 copies in this period, Munk Olsen counts 187 MSS from the 9th century, 277 from the 10th, 725 from the 11th and 1791 from the 12th.) But this is surely a product of scale, rather than cultural change.
Scale is definitely a factor, but the scale of manuscripts produced in the 12th century is directly tied to cultural change (but again, also tied to where the manuscripts were being stored, who was copying them, how many times, for what reasons, etc).
Again, Reynolds and Wilson characterise the importance of the 12th century as one of consolidating the developments initiated in the 9th century:
So why should we view the 12th century as more in cultural continuity with the 14th century than the 9th as it pertains to the transmission of texts?
Ah, no, I meant the moment of preservation of those Carolingian texts. The Carolingian activity creates this apparent horizon of the 9th century. There were certainly manuscripts and copies going back to the 8th, the 7th, the 6th centuries (there had to be, or else the 9th-century texts could not exist), but the parameters of those earlier texts meant that the vast majority did not survive in situations where they could be found by those coming centuries later. Their geographic deposition, the attitudes of their preservation, their materials, their number.
Hmm I'm not making any references to cultural continuity. I'm simply saying that we see this false "horizon" of the 9th century for extant manuscripts because of what was going on in the late 8th century in Central France, what they were doing with manuscripts at St. Denis, and how those manuscripts were being stored and disseminated. There were certainly manuscripts before the 9th century--we just don't have them around now in Venice and Paris, because they were not around in the 12th/13th/14th century to be "discovered" and "rescued".
But, separately, the spread of the very idea that ancient texts were worth preserving and reading, and especially those beyond the select few (like Ovid and Seneca and Vergil), is relevant. The Carolingians, and Charlemagne in particular, were very isolated in a much larger world that did not, outside the Abbasids, particularly value the transmission or cultivation of ancient texts on a scale sufficient enough to ensure their survival into the Renaissance. The Anglo-Saxon missionaries had brought many texts back to the Continent, but we are talking about a tiny number of human beings and a tiny number of physical objects. Survivability is tied to numbers, and by the 12th century there were just more volumes being created and copied on the whole, and in places beyond York and Paris.