The family presumably has no contract or any sort of legal relationship with the HOA. They have a contract with their landlord. (When does their lease end?) Separately, the landlord (property owner) has a legal relationship with the HOA.
I have yet to see it in detail, but the landlords attorney stuck a notice of eviction in the screen door this weekend. And it says they have 5 days to respond and to mail letter to court and to the landlord attorney. So I guess I would say to respond to the notice they are processing paperwork for an eviction. But I thought the process was the plaintiff to file notice to evict with court, then the court would send and serve papers for the eviction to go in front of judge and the defendant would have 5- 10 days to respond to it and then a court date set.
The landlord is getting hit by the HOA for this and they are probably threatening him with action. So he has to do this.
Seems weird that they just drop off a letter stating to respond. It seems unofficial to me. I can’t find an attorney that represents tenants. They all seem to only work with landlords. She is trying to find an attorney for a consult and will pay for an hour or two of time and proper legal response. Seems like they are just bullying my the whole family and arbitrarily enforcing rules.
This is strange. It's a notice to cure or quit, not eviction (yet) but how are they in violation of their lease. Not some HOA rule, but the lease? When does their lease end, otherwise?
The HOA sent them a letter that the HOA rules supersedes the lease. And they are breaking Hoa rule of underage persons living there and therefore in violation of the lease since it is governed by HOA, according to what landlord stated.
They did send a letter to cure I thjnk a week ago- where they stated, they had 6 days to have the granddaughter move out. Right at 7 day they got this paper.
Thank you for the input. At this point there is nothing out there to rent, so they don’t know what to do.
It's either (a) have her move out, or (b) they all move out, or (c) they hire an attorney and take this to court.
They are trying to find an attorney but no one works with tenants it seems. They are trying to find one that can review the documents and write a response but none seem to want this type of situation. I was hoping best case they agree to all move out and find a place, by end of their lease and don’t renew. But this time of year and current situation with real estate is tough. If they had the remainder of their lease to find a place it would make it much simpler. And considering it’s not a monetary or late rent issue at all. And they don’t disturb anyone there.
They are near/over the 20% cushion and trying to get back under. That would justify going after people with complaints first.
Option 1 is possibly defensible, Option 2 is not. However, this is technically between the homeowner and the HOA, and they would have to bring suit to stop it. One issue here is that suing the HOA is essentially suing themselves.
I would have them look for a lawyer with experience dealing with HOAs, and see what options are possible. A consultation at this point is worth it given the hassle and cost of moving.
It is legal for the HOA in a 55+ community to ban people under 55 from living there. The 80/20 rule is about what is needed to maintain the benefits of being a 55+ community, it doesn't mean the HOA is required to allow 20% of units to have younger people. Many 55+ communities have a lower threshold than 20% to allow for a buffer. Some don't allow younger people to live there at all unless there is a hardship. Most require formally requesting an exception. The homeowner(landlord) can talk to the HOA about this.
FL is unlike other states, an HOA can evict tenants directly without foreclosure. If you have received an eviction notice from the courts you should contact an eviction attorney that defends tenants, or a tenants rights group quickly.
They can fine the homeowner(for having tenants/occupants under 55 in this case), then issue a demand for the tenant to pay the HOA instead of the landlord, then evict the tenants for non payment.
Even if the HOA "can't" evict and is doing something totally wrong, if the HOA files for eviction you need a lawyer to show that to the courts.