Unless you have other family members you can ask who you trust unfortunately your mom is the only one who can answer that right now. You can try to pull public records from the hospital or county where you were born to see if an unedited version is on file. You could also get an ancestry test to see if you connect to bio family members through that service. Good luck!
I found my birth dad through ancestry. I'd taken it and he took it after me. He had no idea I existed. At least I knew I had a dad; must have been a shocker for him!
If in the US, public records won't help unless OP is very old (around 75 or older). Birth records are not public records for many years, the idea being to protect the privacy of the living.
thank you, if my mom doesn’t get back to me by the time my birth certificate order application goes through i’ll also be looking into the my heritage dna tests.
OP may be able to get their own medical records from the facility where they were born. That's different than a public records request.
Apologies for the confusion. This was my second post on a different subreddit so I paraphrased my original post. When I say I remember going to court to get a name change to my dad’s last name it was in regards to the man who raised me who I’ve only ever known as my biological father. I’ve never questioned this and when it came to getting my id around 2012 my mom said she couldn’t find my name change paperwork that would of listed my dad’s last name. So at 16-17 I took my certified copy of my birth certificate and got my ID under my mother’s maiden name. I was a kid when I remember going to court to get my name changed but it was so long ago and I was young so it could of been an adoption type scenario as well, I just don’t remember. Ive never had any red flags to this scenario except for seeing a mans name Ive never recognized under “father of child” on my birth certificate that was attempted to be blackened out. With all the moving variables my mind got to running so Ive been seeking out research. I’d like to add part of the reason I’m reaching out to reddit is because I don’t want to push my mom on the subject in case it may be something sensitive and possibly something she thought she wouldn’t have to deal with again. Thank you for the feedback, any answers or suggestions at all are easing my mind from thinking too much.