Parts not intended for the device or configurations not supported are not covered under warranty. This may be such an issue.
And "you put this together in a way that broke it" is not something a warranty can be required to cover.
The petitions point is there is already a standing precedent, Magnuson Moss Warranty Act, and companies are voiding that by denying customers repairing their own items.
Which part of Magnuson-Moss act you think they're violating? I assume you must be thinking of tie-in clause, i.e. they conditioning service to usage of their parts. And that might be a problem for them if issue was not connected to the part. If SATA ports are not working and user installed 3rd-party disk. HP can reasonably disclaim warranty coverage for damage caused by 3rd party. Frankly, they're probably going to file it under improper maintenance unless you can prove it was done by someone competent.
My point with that is the hard drive that is not original was not the cause of the breakage. The computer had a problem first not booting, the user tried changing the drive, it did not solve the problem. He just wanted to get some money out of it, so he sold it.
I personally wouldn't threaten lawsuit or anything like it - let's face it, you won't follow it up. "Killing" customer service with kindness and being persistent is what will probably solve the issue eventually.
I do not know which part of the act is the issue, i'm going off of information given by the 'right to repair' issue that is becoming a larger movement in the repair community.
The computer does turn on fine, it displays fine, but the sata port does not get power. so no matter what hard drive, whether its the original drive or any other drive, or even a cd drive, you have in it, it will not function because it can not boot to an OS.
And let's face it, power missing might be caused by fried motherboard. If somebody didn't know what they were doing or they plugged burnt drive, I can see how it could backfire. And yes, damage might have been caused by the first drive but it could also be the original user lying. Either way, even with the original drive it's gonna be chicken/egg problem.
Do you have the original sales receipt of the computer? If not, the warranty doesn’t even apply to you. The warranty is only transferable with original sales receipt. You’re likely SOL and if you want it working you’d need to pay for repairs yourself.
I have tried the be nice, but they have given 3 different excuses to why they wont cover warranty, and at this point it just sounds like they don't want to have to expense the cost of repairing it and are finding a way to not cover the warranty. i have taken video of the issue and my diagnostics also and sent. I can fix this myself for about $70, the cost of a new mainboard. I don't mind taking it to small claims court just to prove a point.
No, the warranty doesn't say that. It says if I dispute the warranty end date then I can provide the sales receipt. HP does not dispute the unit is in warranty period. The warranty does not say it is not transferable.
It says in the warranty that, as a condition of the warranty, you may be asked to provide original proof of purchase to get service. Keyword may. HP has also come out and said themselves that warranties are not transferable without original proof of purchase. You can find both of these things on their website and by asking them on their messenger services.
I hear you, it says: "Your dated sales or delivery receipt, showing the date of purchase or lease of the HP Hardware Product, is your proof of the purchase or lease date unless HP or your authorized reseller informs you otherwise in writing. You may be required to provide proof of purchase or lease as a condition of receiving warranty service.".
They have not said a word about me not being the original owner or asking for a receipt. I told them already I'm not the original owner. But if they do, then I'll provide the receipt of me buying it from the person.
My issue is they are using technicalities to deny a warranty claim and that's not 'right'. So I'll also use technicalities against them.