This is touched on extensively in this larger answer I wrote previously about natal policy in the period surrounding the war so I'll repost it here:
Looking at natalist policies in the Soviet Union, especially with regards to abortion, we can see a lot of policy being driven by concerns about the birthrate, and its rise and fall. Especially at the time of the war, there was very explicit concerns raised about the issue and policies were changed and created with the explicit goal of raising it.
In the Russian Empire, and the first few years of Bolshevik rule in Russia, abortion was illegal. But, as in most places where the procedure is illegal though, the procedure was nevertheless popular, but insanely dangerous. One observer pre-1920 noted:
But this wasn't to remain. As noted, the change was not because abortion was seen as good, but that legalizing it was a necessary evil and that the state would work to eliminate the underlying economic reasons driving women to have them. As it turned out, poor women were no more likely to be using this 'service though'. If anything, it was the better off women who were getting more abortions. Even worse, the birthrate in the USSR was falling precipitously, from 42.2 per 1000 in 1928 to 31.0 in 1932, according to a government study released in 1934. Thus the law changed in 1936 when policies started to return to pushing more 'traditional' gender roles for women, and included restricting abortion again - it required a medical reason now. As before though, just because it is illegal doesn't mean women don't seek them. After 1936, "back-alley" abortions were on the rise, and they certainly carried additional risks with them, and penalties for obtaining one meant injured women would only be further harmed by not seeking treatment:
The decision to legalize the procedure, and make it simple to obtain, was almost entirely a practical decision. In 1920 they became legal if done by a doctor, essentially in acknowledgement that it would happen no matter what, so the state should do its best to make it safe. They were subsidized by the state, so free to the woman. In 1926, the abortion rate was 42.8 per 1000 working women, and 45.2 per 1000 'housewives' (compare to the US today, at . Modern Russia continues to be very high, at ).
Soviet propaganda campaigns to encourage motherhood predated the war even, but the massive calamity of course kicked it into overdrive. During the war, there was a definite decline in the birthrate due to "general decline in the reproductive health of mothers, as reflected in the high rate of premature births", as characterized by the People’s Commissar of Public Health G.A. Miterev, and Soviet leadership worked hard to try to turn that around, with their clear awareness that to see further decline would imperil the ability of the USSR to bounce back in the long term.
The massive population losses that occurred in the early 1940s further increased pro-natal policy planning, but with both carrots and sticks. Laws to assist so called "war widows" (referring not simply to women who lost husbands, but women who lost the potential for a husband due to the decline in the male population) both in raising their children as single mothers as well as having children in the first place.
Abortion statistics aren't readily available for this period, but my book notes that as the birth rate didn't seem to change much - rising briefly through 1937 when it reached 39.6 per 1000 but again beginning to decline until leveling out at 33.6 per 1000 in 1940, the same rate as 1936 when the law went into effect - as the laws became restrictive again, this would imply women weren't especially deterred by the law and continued to seek them at the same rate as before (see 1926 numbers), if not higher. There was no ready access to, nor education regarding, other means of birth control (Aside from abortion as birth control, by far most common being 'coitus interruptus'), so it was really the only means of family planning available to women.
Programs and incentives to encourage motherhood existed, such as awards for bearing a certain number of children and various state assistance programs for both married single mothers, while legal penalties were either added or increased, most especially with the Family Law of 1944, which further penalized abortion and increasingly penalized divorce as well. The shortage of men also meant a very important shift, in which the Soviets worked to try and both destigmatize single-motherhood by increasing state benefits they could receive and featuring mothers of ambiguous marital status in propaganda, while also tacitly encourage even married men to sleep around by preventing the single mothers from suing the father for child support, and making it harder for their irate wives to divorce them. The result being that many men would have numerous affairs, and even unmarried men would often bounce from relationship to relationship.
Now as to your question, which is basically whether or not the Soviets were successful in reversing the trend during the war years? Well, not terribly. There was a definite boost in the fertility rate immediately after the war years, but it was rather short lived, and quickly began to decline again. Here is a table of the fertility rates of the US and USSR, which allows for a comparison of the 'Baby Boom' in America, for the period in question:
So as you can see, they did bounce, with a sharp - and important - increase in 1946 and 1947, but certainly didn't regain pre-war levels like we see in the US, and even bigger, while they had been far higher than the US before the war, the total fertility rate is now noticeably lower (with a minor exception being, when broken into age cohorts, a higher rate in the USSR for women over 30) and stabilized much quicker within a few years of the war (stabilized being a relative term. there would be later drops). So all in all, yes, there was a brief boom that we can see, and it likely was quite important as far as the stability of Soviet population numbers go, but it wasn't as long lasting as we see in the US, puttering out somewhat quickly.
Still though, abortion remained a problem, and it was practicality more than anything else - such as the loosening of Stalinist era control policies - that saw it relegalized in 1956, for up to 12 weeks of pregnancy, as following legalization, the official line continued to harshly condemn what was characterized as an abrogation of a central civic responsibility for women. Statistics remained shrouded for decades more though, with none published again until the 1980s, so estimates for that period are very rough, but estimates certainly indicate more pregnancies ended in abortion than in a live birth, but at a declining rate:
Likewise, despite the attempts prevent it, divorce rates continued to rise and rise - doubling between 1960 and 1970, and commentary from that period points to women being the instigator in most cases "suggest[ing] that Soviet marriages and families are unstable and emotionally unsatisfying, especially for women". Abusiveness and boorishness of husbands drove most of this, alcoholism being cited in more than half of petitions for divorce. Rising employment opportunities and ability to provide for themselves and their children also likely helped contribute. In a nutshell, women felt more empowered to leave a bad marriage and more capable to support themselves once single.
So to sum it up, the policies we see on this front teetered between ideology and practicality. Legalization of abortion originally came about due in large part to the understanding that it was necessary, and driving them underground simply hurts women who likely will seek them anyways, but also we can't discount the new found sense of civic freedom and equality for women that characterized the early days of the Soviet Union. As Soviet policies started to shift to a more 'traditional' view of family life and structure, and (supposedly) the circumstances for motherhood were improved, the necessity of legal abortion could be dispensed with, but in reality the supports were not as good, and women continued to desire control over their reproductive rights - leading to the continued use of abortions simply driven underground. Once again relegalized in the '50s, the Soviet government prefered to keep the policy low-key, and refused to allow information on its extent to be made public, which helps to demonstrate a continued ideological opposition, even if they realized that they had to make some concessions to the reality of the situation.
Stone, O. M. "The New Fundamental Principles of Soviet Family Law and Their Social Background." The International and Comparative Law Quarterly 18, no. 2 (1969): 392-423.
Why was the growth so lackluster though? Well, at least as concerns what I've covered here, it is also worth noting that the aforementioned carrots weren't always effective. As before the war, illegal, underground abortions weren't uncommon, and divorce rates nevertheless rose through the decade after the Great Patriotic War despite the legal barriers and financial disincentives. And while the propaganda machine continued to trumpet motherhood as "a 'sacred duty' to the state", a common complaint, especially of single women who tried to balance a career alongside motherhood, was that the actual offerings by the state in support often fell very short of what was promised. Whatever the complaints though, the policies certainly seemed to have some effect:
You mentioned state support. Were economic concerns a big part of this? I'm thinking of comparisons to young people now who are hesitating to have kids because of a lack of prosperity.