I'm looking through the article and the closest I can find, where it isn't talking about tropes and the flaws in them, is about cultural stasis in history and nothing about historical technological progress.
An answer on cultural stasis (and if so, might want to include Egypt in the question) might be a different question from the one you want answering? If you want an answer about technology, is there something more specific you are thinking of? I should mention Ancient China had plenty of wars including civil wars so this is only for periods of stability you are seeking?
"From the perspective of the longue durée, one can actually see the true medieval stasis to be... The Roman Republic and The Roman Empire. For all its status in the early modern, enlightened and romantic imaginary as a modernizing and civilizing force in Europe, there was nothing in terms of advancement in science and mathematics.".
I see the issue with my post was phrasing and I should've quoted the specific part in mind. I'll go ahead and quote it.
Sorry for the late response! So EnclavedMicrostate spoke of how it was nonsensical for Qing and the Opium Wars. My era is many centuries before his and it is also, well, utter rot for the Later Han and three kingdoms.
"The stasis of Imperial Rome can be compared to that of Imperial China, despite the apparent contradiction that many technological inventions happened there first. It wasn't unusual for those same technologies and other things like philosophy, medicine, bureaucracy, or military doctrine to remain unchanged for hundreds of years after being adopted, or even millennia. China was so sure of its own superiority historically, that it was extremely reluctant to adopt the ways of foreigners (a.k.a "barbarians") until the Opium Wars showed them why they should.".
The problem with the stasis idea is that yes, they were the centre of the universe but even during times of peace, they faced challenges. Each generation had to adapt to the problems of their day and things like improving the farms and their family wealth, working on understanding the world better and how to improve themselves. Things happened, challenges emerged and so people sought to adapt to meet them.
That is my fault, I haven't used that site for awhile and I completely failed to realize clicking on things like real-life would have opened up such a passage.