I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
This really isn't a legal issue question, better suited for r/legaladviceofftopic (Edit, appears to be a legal question after op updated post).
You can either negotiate with the leinholder, take out what's called a "lein bond", or yes - sue the person who filed the lein.
If you chose to file a suit, then yes - showing that the sub did any or all of those things would be a good idea, and would be used by the judge to determine who should win the case.
If it's not resolved, the lien holder can force the foreclosure of the property to satisfy the lien. Essentially sell the home from under you to satisfy the lien.
Ignoring it would not be a good outcome. Yes, legal action would happen on the lien long before that came up.
It sucks to be in this mess, but you don't solve problems like this by just refusing to pay attention to them. You refused to pay for their work, so they filed a lien. It's now up to you to prove that their work is not what you agreed to, and that they don't deserve to be paid.
That being said, you don't let a lien "ride" for any amount of time. Once filed the contractor has a timeline to follow, determined by state law.
Typically it's about 90 days or so. In that time frame they work with you to resolve the issue. The homeowner of course would with through their attorney to resolve amicably.
There are strict filing requirements for the contractor, and each side will contest the others information. Its adjudication will depend on that evidence presented.
Lastly, no matter how this ends make sure you obtain a lien waiver from any sub you're in contact with. You can easily print them up by searching for (your state, mechanics lien waiver). They are absolutely necessary to protect yourself. Don't pay out last draw until you have them in hand. Like, you get it, then you pay them (usually same transaction time).
Have you spoken with the carpet company you purchased the carpet from? Typically they handle the billing to insulate the customer from the installer (for billing).
Deal with them first, then start going up the chain of command. If you're not satisfied, keep going and push for an entire tear out/replacement.
Source- used to sell carpet out a very large retail operation. District management and higher hate dealing with complaints because it means the stores are not managing installs correctly.
Start with store manager, then district manager, then area, then VP. You'll start getting help the higher you escalate. Always remain professional and polite. Take pictures of the shoddy installed goods, and invite them to visit the property in person.
If your installer is being paid directly to you, that is a much bigger exposure to a lien. Are you paying the installer directly?
Then it's on the designer to correct the issue. They may push back that isn't their installer, but I'd argue otherwise. If they're selling high end carpet, they owe the customer top tier install.
This was through a designer. So the carpet is purchased directly from a distributor out of in New York (Stark if you’re in the trade and know the name). Then, an unrelated installer is hired to do the install. This isn’t like a carpet store setup, so that route isn’t an option. So I’m paying the designer who is using the installer as a sub.
Unfortunately if they stiff the installer, you're going to be on the hook for the bill and likely a lien situation.
Their stance is is dude screwed up. Like, the install is soooo bad. Any YouTube video or basic handyman book can tell you this was incompetence or apathy or both to a top degree. A 1” gully and not using a power stretcher is not acceptable in any install. Then, on round two, they simply cut the carpet flush with the wall and filled the gully with padding rather than fixing the tack strip distance and tucking. The carpet could be lifted at the edges as there was no pull into the tack. Like, basic basic incompetence.