It is interesting to see how sparse the literature on this even happens to be, as even what smattering of literature I was able to track down actually notes how “even specialists in the field of slavery know little about [it]”. Herbert Aptheker’s American Negro Slave Revolts still seems to be a decently common citation despite being from the 1930s, which says volumes about the overall dearth of literature! There is some stuff out there though which I’ve been sifting through, and will give a bit of a rundown.
In the end, the German Coast Revolt is, as we said at the start, quite forgotten. In part, this was exactly what the white society of Louisiana wished, their suppression of the news essentially successful, but no doubt the brief time frame of only a few days contributed as well. But regardless, while it may have been crushed quickly and decisively, it also spoke to a highly skilled sense of organization and discipline within the enslaved population, although their voice sadly is lacking to give us the full picture of their brief, and tragic, movement.
In any case Louisiana was sugar-country, and the sugar plantations of the territory were fairly notorious for the absolutely awful conditions under which the enslaved persons labored. The entire past decade had been an apprehensive one for the white enslaving population, hearing rumors filter through about the goings on in Haiti, and also worrying about what impact the successful revolt there might have on the mindset of their own human property. As such, rumors about rebellion plots had been circulating for years, some with real hints of truth, and others mere fantasy conjured up by fear.
For the revolt itself, we don’t know much about the perpetrators, as what testament they did give was testimony at their kangaroo courts afterwards, and filtered only through the lens of their oppressors, but we can at least trace the broad path.
The German Coast in particular was a region with a great mixing of enslaved persons from throughout the country, as Americans moved to the new Louisiana territory, and the Caribbean as well as French-enslavers fled Haiti in the previous decade. Well situated near New Orleans as well, this combined for an enslaved community that was hardly set in their ways, and fairly well aware of the wider world and its goings on. Awareness of unrest in West Florida, where Spain and the United States were rattling sabers, no doubt contributed to the sense of members within the enslaved population that there was great instability in the region which they might be able to capitalize on.
The main leader of the revolt was a somewhat mysterious figure named Charles Deslonde, a commandeur, or enslaved foreman of uncertain origins. He was possibly a Creole, possibly born on Santo Domingo, but certainly mixed race, and as was generally feared, he certainly was plotting, along with some of fellow enslaved persons, to rise up and march 36 miles southeast on New Orleans, believing that if all of the black population on their route joined them, they would well outnumber any group of whites collected to oppose them, certainly true as some 70 percent of the region were enslaved persons. With the city in their hands, perhaps they hoped a wider revolt all along the coast would no doubt follow, or alternatively they would be able to force passage south to Haiti.
The bid was made on January 8th, and their numbers swelled up, with several hundred self-liberated slaves beginning to march south (estimates vary wildly from 150-500), but they never achieved close to the masses that Deslonde had hoped. With nearly 4,000 enslaved persons on the German Coast, only a mere fraction flocked to the call, with far more either unable to reach, or choosing not to participate, knowing the likely fate that would await them.
One of the things that should be noted, especially given how the image a slave revolt conjures up is likely one of disorderly, rampaging violence and (not unjustified!) revenge, is how organized the German Coast Rebellion was. This was no disorganized rabble, but rather an orderly force, with a clear goal they were setting out to achieve. Although one captured participant testified he had participated simply “to kill the white”, little of that went on. The rebels attempted, best they could, to resemble a proper military force, wearing uniforms, and restraining themselves from almost all unprovoked violence, although it was made easy as almost the entire white population in their path fled before they could reach a given plantation. While they destroyed a great deal of property as they marched towards New Orleans, only two civilians were killed, one being the son of Col. Andry who had been leasing Deslonde (The Colonel himself was attacked, but escaped alive). The other, Jean-Francois Trepagnier, seems to have attempted to prevent destruction of his estate.
That of course didn’t prevent the whites from using violence to try and reinforce the racial order. Poorly armed and without any real training, the freedom fighters enjoyed no battlefield success, first scattered by an encounter with 80 members of the militia, and then hunted down over the next few days with the assistance of more militiamen who had responded to the call up, as well as local units of the Army who had been detoured from their original intention of marching on West Florida.
Reporting was actually stronger outside Louisiana, where the news inspired several state legislatures to pass laws in response regarding the militia, as well as regulations for black persons in the state, both free and enslaved.
Deslondes, captured alive, was cruelly tortured, first losing his hands, then shot repeatedly in his extremities, before being burned alive. Others were similarly abused in life, but “only” killed by firing squad. Several more persons in New Orleans were hung for suspicion of association. The enslavers, in many cases, were compensated $300 by the territory for their lost human beings. The Territory itself requested reimbursement from the Federal government for the cost of suppression.
Dormon, James H. "The Persistent specter: Slave rebellion in territorial Louisiana." Louisiana History 18, no. 4 (1977): 389-404.
Reports stated that 66 were killed in the field. Following capture, another 21 were given sham trials and executed within days, and their heads displayed along the route they had previously marched as a grim warning against further attempts at freedom. In some cases it was reported that the pike was carried through New Orleans by two fellow slaves.
The uprising had, in the end, lasted a very brief time, from the 8th to the 11th when it was announced as broken and the leadership captured. In Louisiana, reporting of the event was quite muted, which no doubt helps to explain its lack of stature in the history books compared to other fights for freedom such as Nat Turner’s Rebellion. Although the Louisiana legislature was inspired to pass bills to improve the quality of the militia, the events that inspired such an act were kept as quite as possible, to avoid possible inspiration to other enslaved people in the state, or even mere news that it had happened. The middling coverage was also for the white population too, an effort to not cause too much alarm, and assure that there had never been all that much danger.
Further north, news of the brutal suppression angered anti-slavery advocates, with headlines decrying the “Villanous Whites” and warning that “the day of vengeance is coming!”. An anonymous letter from an observer published in the North described that “of all human barbarity and indelicacy, none can exceed that of the Creole-French of Louisiana”.
In Congress, debating a bill to allow French refugees from Haiti to settle in the US and be exempt from the importation ban on slaves, so as to bring with them their human chattel, the incident played heavily on legislators’ minds, as many of the participants, including allegedly Deslondes himself, had been brought from the Caribbean. American enslavers believed their slaves were devoted to them, and happy to blame the foreign influence on causing such unrest.
Paquette, Robert L. "“A Horde of Brigands?” The Great Louisiana Slave Revolt of 1811 Reconsidered." Historical Reflections/Réflexions Historiques 35, no. 1 (2009): 72-96.
Baptist, Edward E.. The Half Has Never Been Told: Slavery and the Making of American Capitalism. United States: Basic Books, 2016.
Rodriguez, Junius P. “German Coast Uprising (1811)” in Encyclopedia of Slave Resistance and Rebellion, Volume 1. Greenwood Publishing Group, 2007.
As far as I was able to find, Rasmussen seems to be the only book lenh treatment, but unfortunately wasn't able to track down a copy on short notice. It is a popular history, not academic, but from the reviews I found, it does seem to be well regarded!
Great comment! I read a copy of the 2011 Daniel Rasmussen book American Uprising which I think is for a popular audience, and in my recollection it agrees with what you have written.
If you ever find yourself in Louisiana, I highly recommend a visit to the , which bills itself as “the only plantation museum in Louisiana with an exclusive focus on the lives of enslaved people.”.
The plantation was owned by the Haydel Family (one of the aforementioned Germans that gave the German Coast its name), and it is one of the most extensively documented plantations in the country in large part because a multinational chemical firm that previously owned it commissioned a massive study of its history.