Chiang Kai-shek didn't want to lead a unified KMT. In fact, he totally planned, executed, and then perpetuated the persecution of communists and the CCP from 1926-1937. And to be fair, Sun Yat-sen also had no interest in seeing the party unified with communists either, he was forced to by the USSR who was funding the KMT's Northern Expedition.
The KMT's creation led it to attract a plethora of plural-minded individuals. The three major groups can be broken down into "Liberals:" Those who sought to create a sort of modern capitalist-federation in the likes of the US; "Communists:" by 1926, no one had universally agreed to what communism was or meant. They just knew that it had to make China a better, modernized state like it did for Russia in the USSR; and finally "Nationalists:" This group is kind of nebulous. Some in recent years have likened them to being fascist minded, while others note that these men adopted their own Chinese concepts of modern military totalitarianism. So Liberals, Communists, and Nationalists, and they're all working "together" under a singular party, the KMT. The Chinese didn't really have the whole 'political parties' thing nailed down the way it is in federal state like the US. But they were all unified in one major goal: Unite China, Modernize China, and Make China Great Again by any means possible!
Chiang needed to act fast if he was to keep his position as head of KMT, or even his head. Chiang chose a combination pretty common to most dictators, assassinating/arresting those who could threaten him, and then accelerating war preparation to give other generals something to be busy with other than plotting his demise. One of the first things he did upon the death of Sun was killing Liao Zhongkai and arresting Hu Hanmin, getting rid of two potential rivals. Next, Chiang instigated the "Canton Coup" (also known as the Zhongshan Incident), where he used his power as head of the Whampoa Military Academy to attack certain communists, arresting Zhou Enlai and exiling Wang Jingwei, but also in the process forcing Soviet advisers to flee. Despite the close calls and tensions, Stalin decided to continue his backing of Chiang and the CCP stayed as an artery of the KMT, though not for long.
When Sun died, there was no real successor for the KMT. Chiang and Sun, although friends, had a very tense political relationship due to Chiang's refusal to cooperate with the CCP. Upon Sun's death, Chiang had an edge over other generals; he was the head of the Whampoa Academy, which meant that he not only had a professional corps of loyal officers, but an army at his disposal located right in Canton. But he himself really had no legitimate means of being the leader of the KMT in the eyes of every other KMT general. They were all the same; a group of former cadets trained in the art of military at the Imperial Japan Military Academy that were unified by their youthful bravado to return to a fragmented homeland and not just unify it, but also turn it into a great world power that could stand up to the Westerners. All of them would play a key role in modern Chinese history, and most of them wanted the leadership role, along with various politicians.
After ensuring he had control over the communists, Chiang then had to deal with fellow military generals. They weren't communists and they all weren't unified in who should replace Chiang, but many were convinced that Chiang should be disposed, a feeling that would soon dissipate as Japanese aggression became more and more belligerent. In order to cull the generals, Chiang basically took a gamble; he would launch the Northern Expedition in 1926 rather than later, against the advice of the Soviet advisers the year prior. Today we know the NE was a stunning success in many ways for the KMT, although it ultimately fell short. But at the time there was no guarantee the campaign would succeed. Fortunately for Chiang, as the KMT Army marched further north it became apparent that certain warlords had no real allegiance to their leaders, and Chiang's willingness to use what he called "Silver Bullets" (Bribes) meant that most of the warlords fell apart quite quickly; some even proved to be loyal allies in the future (Tang Shengzhi). But by 1928, Chiang was the undisputed leader of the KMT due to a combination of a successful war solidifying his leadership and him assassinating or exiling potential rivals.
Like I said before, Chiang didn't necessarily have an interest in unifying the CCP with the KMT. He hated communists, and he was determined to exterminate them. The feeling was mutual for communists, but Chiang had to watch out for other KMT rightists who were looking for any opportunity to seize power. Now, I'll get into the beef of that three-way ideological struggle between Liberals, Nationalists, and Communists.
Communists: Obviously the betrayal at Shanghai resulted in a cemented hatred of Chiang among pretty much all CCP officials. Still, Wang Jingwei was out there, in Wuhan, and was a very real threat to Chiang's authority. But Wang really wasn't a communist, and he didn't like Mao or Chen Duxiu any more than he liked Chiang. Wang was really just looking for a way in, into that sweet seat of leadership that he would only find through Japanese collaboration. While most communists decided to wage war against the KMT with their newly created People's Liberation Army, Wang decided to cut ties with the CCP and ally with the two powerful Central Plains warlords, Feng Yuxiang and Yan Xishan, who rebelled, and then were defeated by Chiang, in 1931. This forced Wang to come to the table with Chiang, and he finally accepted a position as premier of China in the KMT. Chiang was still leery of Wang though, and Chiang basically turned the position into a diplomatic one. Throughout the 1930s until Japanese invasion, Wang would spend most of his time abroad on orders by Chiang, especially in Germany.
Nationalists: The main allies of Chiang, these were politicians who swung far right or military commanders who viewed a dictatorship as necessary. Powerful enemies of Chiang, like the formerly arrested Hu Hanmin, were now strong allies of Chiang after the NE. By 1931, Chiang was pretty untouchable to these guys. While he was always under constant threat from ambitious and young allies such as Li Zongren (who replaced Chiang as president when Chiang stepped down from office as a political stunt), and Chiang's good friend He Yingqin, whose political loyalty to Chiang was ambiguous, but ultimately stalwart throughout his reign in China and Taiwan. Most importantly, Chiang was saved by Japanese aggression. Despite taking no action in 1931 when Japan invaded Manchuria, and deliberately avoiding a huge confrontation in the Battle of Shanghai in 1932, Chiang was ironically saved by all this. It was apparent that he was the only one who could lead China against Japan, and thus even if there were coalitions opposing Chiang's Communist Extermination Campaigns taking priority over Japanese aggression, none of them could actually call for the removal of Chiang from office. Japan was Chiang's most powerful tool.
Liberals: After the Shanghai massacre, Chinese liberals were forced to make a choice. It had become increasingly apparent that setting up an actual democratic republic in China was futile once Chiang and his corps of officers solidified their rule over the KMT. So would they support the ruling KMT, in hopes that after the chaos subsided that Chiang and crew would hopefully be more open to democratic processes? Or turn over to the CCP, who were espousing democratic ideals, a nation for the people, by the people. Most liberals in this case, then, fled over to the CCP. And its easy to see why; first, Mao had just begun his ascendancy to power over the CCP, so it was fairly democratic as a party at this point. Second, communism in theory is quite democratic, that is how its suppose to function in a Marxist sense. Many liberals hoped that with them entering the CCP, they could counter the radical elements and create a more perfect party. Just as a little side and fun fact, this generation of liberals entering and staying the CCP and their children will be the ones to lead the Tiananmen Incident in 1989. Anyway, keeping the answer relevant, Chiang failed to appease most liberal minded individuals. Although some very prominent ones, like Hu Shi, stayed with the KMT, its more apt to say they were loyal to China rather than Chiang or the KMT.
All of this is a big fancy way of saying that the KMT couldn't stay together. While there were a few liberal politicians who ultimately sided with Chiang, the CCP had no interest in cooperation with the KMT, and even during the Second United Front, CCP and KMT armies clashed against each other in skirmishes in the 1940s in the midst of Japanese invasion. Although KMT generals blamed CCP instigation, its really hard to tell. While some people may view the KMT in the 1920s as a unified entity, it really wasn't, rather it was a political coalition formed around those three major ideologies that were floating in the minds of Chinese intellectuals across the nation. And as a result it was doomed to fail due to the crazy amount of political intrigue being conducted after Sun's death.
This thread didn't get a lot of love, but I want you to know that I really appreciate such a knowledgeable and well-written response. This is so great and clears a lot up for me!