You might be interested in about this custom. It doesn't directly answers your question but it gives a context to the custom and when it emerged.
That's definitely helped lend some perspective on this. I find it interesting that it could have been a mockery rather than a serious tradition but your answer has definitely scratched an itch, thanks!
Just to expand on that: the typical military pay for a Greek citizen in the Classical period was 1 drachma (6 obols) per day. In other words, even if the army was sent on a one-day campaign and completely wiped out, the cost of sending each man to the afterlife would be only 1/6th of the cost of bringing them to battle in the first place.
More relevant to your question is the idea that: 1) This custom was only really popularized in the classical period and wasn't universal, and 2) The amount to "pay" was a single obol, which was the lowest denomination of coinage, so it's doubtful that even if it was universal it would amount to a significant part of the war "budget" compared to many other things.
In short, this custom was probably not practiced in war, but even if it was, the cost would have been marginal and wouldn't have required special preparation.
Needless to say, most campaigns took much longer than one day, and casualties were rarely very high. Upkeep was the real drain on coffers: it cost as much as 1 talent (6,000 drachmai) to keep one trireme in service for one month. Modern historians have calculated that, in the opening years of the Peloponnesian War, Athens was spending in the neighbourhood of 1,500 talents (9 million drachmai) every year on the upkeep of its fleets and armies. That would be enough to send 54,000,000 people to the afterlife. Even if the ritual of the obol for the boatman was universally and painstakingly observed, its cost would be negligible compared to the regular expenses of war.
The notion of burying the dead with gifts and instructions to make their way safely to the underworld goes thousands of years back, at least in places like Egypt. It's not surprising that the notion of "a coin for the boatman" resonates with people. But, like grave goods as such, it never seems to have been a universal aspect of the Greek treatment of the dead.
But we have little reason to assume that Charon was always paid. We are told that the Athenian war dead were cremated on the spot and their ashes and bones brought back home to be buried, with all the dead of one tribe in a single coffin. Leaving aside the logistical impossibility of this custom, there would be no way to add a coin for each individual body when they were all gathered together like this. Meanwhile, the Spartans tended to bury their war dead near the site where they had fallen; one such grave (from the aftermath of a battle in 403 BC) was excavated in Athens, and none of the bodies were accompanied by coins. To my knowledge, none of the other mass graves of warriors known from the Greek world contained coins for the boatman either.
Probably not, since we don't know about Greek coin purses. But they would have had some coins tucked away among their possessions in camp, since they would need it to buy rations.