Not sure about angling being mentioned. For the earliest description of it, there's Dame Juliana Berners' an abbess of the 14th c., who wrote a treatise on fishing with a pole and an "angle" or hook. Like a lot of medieval figures, there are a lot of questions about who she really was and even whether she wrote her book ( or, rather, whether the book she wrote is the same one published under her name by Wynkyn de Worde in 1496). It's long been known by the fly-fishing world as the first description of fly fishing. The pole she describes was nothing like a split bamboo rod, though: it had a staff section about nine feet long, and about the size of an oar, made of hazel or other light wood, with a hole bored into it to accept the "croppe" . That indeed must have looked something like a whip, made of one section of light hazel and another section of something more tough, like blackthorn, tied onto that. Altogether, this made an assembled rod of about 18 feet. The staff had an iron spike in the base, that could be driven into the ground. Then it could be leaned out over the water and propped up with pole, and a horsehair line with the lure dropped down into the water from the tip of the croppe.
I was also under the assumption that fishing as a whole originated in egypt because of ancient egyptian paintings depiecting.
From her writings, it's thought likely Berners came from an upper class family, as she wrote of hunting as well ( hunting was an aristocratic sport) . Maybe another clue to her class is her hatred of poachers : " I charge in the name of all noble men not to fish in a poor man's water, such as his pond...unless you have his good will and permission. For if you take his goods away you rob him, a right shameful deed for any nobel \[sic\] man to do. If he does this practice he is to be considered a thief and a beggar, who are punished for their evil deeds by being captured and hanged by the neck".
There are some very early representations of people fishing, and it would be logical to assume fishing predates the existing pictures. My old Oxford English Dictionary cites Chaucer as the first person to use "angle" for a fishing hook, and he was around the time of Juliana Berners. I cited Berners because she's the first to actually describe how to fish with a rod, line and hook.
Ken Reinard, The Colonial Angler's Manual of Flyfishing & Flytying , states that reels existed in the 18th c. but were considered unsporting, something used by poachers. He does not cite a source for this.
Wtf why be a jerk? I didnt ask a simple question i simply asked when is the earliest record of angling, and where it happend.
Alternatively, if you didn't mean to ask a simple question about basic facts, but have a more complex question in mind, feel free to repost a reworded question. If you need some pointers, the mod team is always happy to assist if you , but also be sure to check out this .
Hi there! We've removed your question because it's asking which can be answered by reference works. These include, but are not limited to, a name, a number, a date or time, a location, the origin of a word, or first/last instance of a specific phenomenon. We'd encourage you to instead post this question in the weekly, stickied thread, where questions of basic fact can be answered succinctly, based on reliable sources. For more information on this rule, .
Finally, don’t forget that there's many subreddits on Reddit aimed at answering your questions. Consider /r/AskHistory (which has lighter moderation but similar topic matter to /r/AskHistorians), /r/explainlikeimfive (which is specifically aimed at simple and easily digested answers), or /r/etymology (which focuses on the origins of words and phrases).