One reason would be sheer desperation. They don't kill He Jin, then what? He Jin has now taken the step of seeking their executions, he has control and support of the army, their families are being arrested, investigations being launched. They tried to surrender and ended up having to fly back to the palace. How long does staying their hand give them? Their only protection is the support of the Dowager and that He Jin has been unwilling to use military force to force his will.
The eunuchs as an institution had been involved in many political coups, to overthrow powerful in-laws. By the time they helped Emperor Huan overthrow the possible regicide Liang Ji in 159 and became major players at court, they had rescued three Emperor's (He, Shun and Huan). The coups would be short affairs, the eunuchs would be acting on behalf of the Emperor and so with that authority, people fell in behind them. The General-in-Chiefs usually didn't bother gaining the support of the capital troops and their positions would collapse as troops didn't put up a fight. The gentry would see some punished who were deemed too complicit, in fall of Liang Ji's case this caused difficulty filling posts, but the Emperors would need the gentry so it never went too far.
In short: The eunuchs were facing death and destruction as it was, they were desperate. Killing the leader of their opponents was something of an old play that had worked several times before with the supporters of their opponents folding but circumstances were different now.
Initially, the eunuchs withheld from going after more than a few select names but when the Imperial University students started protesting against the regime, the eunuchs persuaded Emperor Ling to charge certain figures with faction and begin the Great Proscription. Many were killed, others fleeing into exile (including some of He Jin's future supporters) and plenty were barred from office until the Turban revolt of 184 saw an easing.
In 168 Emperor Huan died and a young Emperor Ling was selected for the throne. The Dou were the Dowager family and the General-in-Chief Dou Wu allied with Grand Tutor and known eunuch opponent Chen Fan. They planned to get rid of the eunuchs but their coup of 24th October would be poorly planned, poorly executed (unless the idea was to show a lesson on how not to do a coup). The eunuchs got the young Emperor Ling behind them and used the perhaps confused visiting general Zhang Huan to act as military support. The dithering plotters saw their troops desert and their position collapse.
Since 159, the eunuchs and the gentry had played their deadly dance. The gentry complained about the power of the eunuchs, seeing the eunuchs as unnatural who should not hold power and objecting to their getting adopted sons, of their families building big mansions and being local rivals to their long-held power. They accused the eunuchs of corruption and violence while carrying out murders and avoiding office. Sometimes one of their own would get into an Emperor's favour or evidence of eunuch corruption so blatant that some of the eunuchs would fall but the institution remained in favour.
The eunuch's views aren't known, their personalities and the like were not recorded. They were a useful bulwark for Emperors in challenging the power of the gentry families at local and court level. They were not adverse at charging their enemies and forcing them out of the office or indeed getting them killed, some of the charges of corruption and violence may well have been true. Some eunuchs would fall for their crimes but their usefulness and their political skills to outwit their rivals kept them in power, they were ruthless in keeping what they had.
When Emperor Ling died with an unclear choice of which son to go for, the political games began. The He family led by the commanding Dowager He and half-brother He Jin battled to get He's son Bian on the throne, destroying political rivals like the Dong clan and the eunuch commander Jian Shi while allying with the major gentry family the Yuans.
The eunuchs were content with this, they had refused to back Jian Shi's plans and had been allies with the He clan who had needed support against Emperor Ling's anger and against gentry slander.
However He Jin, amidst rumours of being from butcher family and her sister having bribed way into the harem, soon got interest from the likes of Yuan Shao. It had been noted that He Jin as General-in-Chief since the Turbans had worked to win the soldiers over and was popular, the chances of the troops just drifting away as had happened so often was rather less. He Jin had a desire for respectability among the elite and Yuan Shao offered that via his own prestige and by defeating the eunuchs.
Months of political manoeuvring began with the He family split, Dowager He and general He Miao backed the eunuchs and became worried about He Jin's ambitions, what would happen to the throne if the eunuchs were destroyed. He Jin was under pressure from his officers to use his military strenh to massacre the eunuchs but he refused, preferring to negotiate for the dismissal of the eunuchs.
As talks stalled, the pressure ramped up as He Jin called in troops from the outside to make a show of strenh and the town of Mengjin was set on fire by Ding Yuan (possibly not intended by He Jin) with the fires seen from Luoyang. He Jin also gave investigative posts to two known anti-eunuch figures:
Odds are, the investigations would not have ended with "You know what, I was completely wrong about the eunuchs. We should praise them". Under this double pressure, the Dowager sought to spare them by sacking them. The eunuchs went to see He Jin, Yuan Shao wanted to kill them there and then but He Jin was content if they left the capital.
However, something leaked out from He Jin's camp (I do wonder if Yuan Shao forging orders for the provinces to arrest and investigate eunuch families got discovered) and the eunuchs fled back to the Dowager who took them back in. Talks hadn't worked, surrender had not brought safety.
When He Jin entered the palace to speak with his sister on September the 22nd, negotiation and a peaceful end was no longer on the cards after what had happened. He Jin asked permission to just outright kill the eunuchs and the eunuchs overheard. Only two pieces of eunuch thought are recorded.
1. Yuan Shao was made Director of Retainers with the Staff of Authority to avoid having to report his actions to the court. His family had benefitted from the eunuchs but Shao had run anti-eunuch escape lines in past and pushing He Jin for more aggressive action.
Leaving aside the chances of a secret discussion from people who were about to die surviving, the conversation makes no sense. He Jin had claimed illness back then to ensure Jian Shi could not strike at him but it had been two months, He Jin had been very active politically, had regular meetings with his family and the eunuchs had met him to discuss their fates. One would think the eunuchs would have noticed He Jin had recovered during some point.
While the conversation is not worth anything in terms of their thinking, none the less they did have a spy at that meeting.
Beyond the frustrations with how He Jin had turned from them, He Jin had become a threat. Now as we know killing him didn't end the threat so why kill then as you asked?
The eunuchs may well have been aware that these factors might be against them but they may have hoped that after the deed was done, things would break for them. The He family had been worried by He Jin, the now dead General-in-chief was not a man who commanded great support among his gentry officers, they may have underestimated the loyalty of the troops as this had never been a problem before. Even if they did realize all this, if they did nothing then their prospects were not looking good anyway.
To me, a much greater mystery is why would He Jin summon Dong Zhuo and forces from the borders to the city if as it turned out forces already there were enough. I never understood what exactly did he expect. I mean, I saw reconstruction of Han palace. It looked like a proper fortress and I could understand if say eunuchs locked themselves in there with some kind of mercenary force which would be difficult to drive out and besiege without overwhelming numbers. But that wasn't the case, and later on Yuan Shao had no problem storming the palace with a token force and killing most of eunuchs.
It is also a method that had worked for them in the past, remove the head (in this case, He Jin), got control of the vital offices like putting allies into Yuan Shao and Wang Yun's posts then watch things collapse. It had worked against Liang Ji, it had worked against Dou Wu and Chen Fan, once the head goes then things soon fall into line. There were key differences this time however.