That is a fascinating topic to discuss that of course could never be answered definitively. It also can be a tough topic to discuss due to the politicization of the topic that has existed since at least Appomattox Courthouse. If I had to sum up my opinion on this in a tldr it would be: Probably not, but stranger things have happened.
One of the more illuminating books I've read on this topic is, A Savage War, by Hsieh and Murray. A fairly recent single volume history of the Civil War that in part wrestles with that question. If I had to sum up their view, it would be that while the South was a large underdog by almost any metric, the task before the North, politically, militarily, economically, and culturally, was enormous and its result was not a foregone conclusion.
As for the North's advantages: It's economy was several times larger than the South's, as was its population. Not only was its economy much larger, it was more diverse. With well known advantages in technology and manufacturing, but also the Midwest was starting to boom as a producer of agricultural goods which helped to make up for the loss of the South's agricultural production during the war. The South's economy of course was very much dependent on cotton exports, which were not possible due to the Union blockade, and was much less built up in manufacturing in an era that arguably was the dawn of industrialized warfare.
This gets to another advantage of the Union which doesn't get enough attention, its overwhelming naval might. The South fought for most of the war under a blockade that stretched from the coast of Virginia to Texas, and from New Orleans to eventually the lenh of the entire Mississippi. The South had zero ability to materially impact the Union navy and the result was devastating on their chances. The North's naval control of the seas and the waterways gave it a huge logistical advantage over the South.
And yet while the North had enormous advantages over the South, they also had a much harder job. The South essentially needed to maintain the status quo after secession, the North needed to conquer an enormous and in many areas wild country full of people who were dedicated to fighting them. Murray and Hsieh make the interesting point that the distance from New Orleans to Richmond was roughly the same distance from Berlin to Moscow. The area the North had to conquer, hold, and pacify was of continental proportions and was a massive task for an army that just a few years before was not much more than a glorified garrison force.
Murray and Hsieh then stumble into the great man debate of history, in giving Lincoln and Grant enormous credit for the North winning the Civil War. Personally I think they make a good case. I think if the North's president had been a mediocrity, or there was no General Grant, that it's possible that the South could have held out for a peace deal and recognition of its independence. That being said, that's the only way I could see it happening. More through Union incompetence than by anything the South could have done differently.
I have sometimes heard it discussed that for this reason the South's best hope for victory was British intervention. This would be somewhat similar to what happened in the Revolutionary War, where the British had complete control of the sea until the French intervened. Does this seem like a reasonable claim?
If you want to see why the U.K. was preoccupied, you might find helpful. As you can see from that map, they had a number of possessions that had nothing to do whatsoever with the United States, were more economically useful to them than the United States, and required their ongoing diplomatic and military involvement.
The main reason the South had such a deep belief in the possibility of British intervention was that a significant shortage of cotton exported to the U.K. was overwhelmingly economically injurious to British millworkers. The Victorian era, however, was not known for its overwhelming sympathy to the poor (vis-à-vis workhouses) and the English were understandably leery of intervening in American political squabbles after 1781 and 1812.
It was wildly unlikely the South could ever win, but even if they had, they no doubt would have taken absolutely any international trade agreements they could get, seeing as their economy was a one-trick pony, if you will.
There was absolutely no advantage for Britain in getting in the middle of the war, so they didn't. The fact that some millworkers starved wasn't a major concern in their eyes; the idea that they could get lured into a military morass when they were perfectly capable of finding military commitments of their own (Second Opium War and capture of Beijing) and replacing missing cotton exports with cotton from India, which the British controlled at that time.
Sparing troops from the endeavours to protect the Empire on which the Sun Never Sets is far different from sending troops to get into what appeared to be (and in fact, was) the losing side of a war.