1- look up your insurance formulary (most likely place to find information would be website listed on the back of your prescription insurance card that will list medication(s) you have to try and fail before your insurance will cover Vyvanse).
2- there is no guarantee even if your doctor does paperwork that your insurance will cover the Vyvanse (see comment 1). Based on your post your insurance requires step therapy if you’re over 19 meaning you need to try and fail multiple medications before they’ll approve the non-formulary medication.
3- at the end of the day this is a matter between you and your insurance company. The pharmacy sends information over to your doctor saying contact insurance at x, doctor needs to send to insurance and insurance decides if they’ll cover or not but the doctor and the pharmacy are acting as the middle men at the end of the day they’re limited by the insurance plan that you signed up for.
My main reason for posting this is the fact that my insurance has said they haven’t received any paperwork for the prior authorization after my doctor has repeatedly sent it.. the lie is making me mad and I feel like that can’t be okay!
If you have tried and failed these medications in the past, be sure that your new doctor has the records from your previous provider documenting that. Your new doctor can include that documentation with the information submitted to your insurance company which could increase the chances of getting the prescribed medication approved.
Also, calls to your insurance company are often assigned a reference number. Having those on hand can significantly reduce the number of call transfers you're subjected to.
Maybe ask your doctor for copies of the fax confirmations and/or the RFAs? Then you can call the insurance company and tell them you have confirmation that the RFA was sent on (date/time) to (phone number),as well as offer to send them again personally. IANAL, but in CA patients are allowed copies of their records (except psych reports/notes). Doesn’t hurt to at least ask.
Thank you so much! This has been very helpful. I’ve tried Ritalin and Adderall, but I wonder why my doctor would prescribe it given the hurdles in order to get it? At this point I will go back on a lower dose of adderall if i can get it faster.
Keep taking good notes on who you speak with and when (date/time). Your contemporaneous notes could be helpful if you ever need to pursue in a legal forum (hopefully won’t get that far).
Insurance companies handle 1000’s of claims, some having 1000’s of pages of records, coming at them from multiple different sources, and thus can be very disorganized. Helping them pinpoint the exact time/date could help.