Your friend's daughter really should talk to a lawyer for help, but if her father (the child of the grandfather in question) is alive, then it's unlikely that she stands to inherit anything unless provided for in a will:
"Legitimacy," as in having been concieved and born while your parents are married, is only a factor in so far as the decedent's will makes arrangements around it. If there's no will, then children born out of wedlock and children born of a marriage have the same standing and inherit equally.
Generally, someone with a "large estate" has the wherewithal to find and retain an estate planning lawyer to help set up their final wishes. If they do that, then what happens to their assets is up to them. Their grandchildren have no right to override their competent decisions. If they do die without a will, however, then generally their children will inherit, and that share will pass to grandchildren of a child who died before the grandparent.
If your grandparents have died and you're concerned you are being cut from the estate inappropriately, talk to an estate litigation lawyer. As your grandfather is still alive, this may be premature - you're within your rights to ask him what, if anything, he is leaving to you. Just remember that he's free to choose however he has chosen.
But in this case there's a grandfather (88) and a grandson (65) and your friend (??) and her daughter (20). If there's no will for the (88) the (65) would presumably inherit it all split with any siblings.
There are a number of questions that have to be answered. First, if the decedent (or parent) has a will or not. If so, the will may control. If there's no will, then the children (or perhaps grandchildren if children are deceased) might inherit if they are legal children. Were they ever adopted by anyone else, do they have another legal parent?
I edited my post to provide clarity. There were only 2 sons. The other may have had legitimate children, she doesn't know. The father of her daughter never had any other children that she's aware of. If the grandfather has written his will with generic boilerplate statements to include unborn children or grandchildren and not excluded the granddaughter by name, then she would inherit? If that is the case, how does she position herself to be aware of this when it happens? Is it all action after the fact and her duty to request the will?