> We recognize you are attempting to access this website from a country belonging to the European Economic Area (EEA) including the EU which enforces the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and therefore access cannot be granted at this time.
We want to farm and sell your information on for marketing purposes but because you're legally protected at an international level instead of updating our company model to reflect the new status quo we will just deny access to everyone in the EU or EAA.
Not sure, but I've heard that there is a some influence from conservative and right-wing vested interests who push the 'it's our culture and no horrible foreigners are gonna tell us what to do' line.
Yeah if the whales don't like it and the people don't like it seems like a prime opportunity to stop and invest in something whales and people like. Or a least something people like that doesn't kill whales.
I live in Japan and no one I know eats eat it through choice. I see it in supermarkets and I've seen it on menus in Izakayas. I've never touched it.
As for it's availability...yeah it is not super prevalent. If you don't read Japanese you could easily overlook it in a supermarket where it will be nestled among all of the other 'Poseidon's treasure' unidentifiable items in the seafood sections.
For what it's worth I don't think domestication is the issue more than species viability. White tail deer in America, Wild Pigs in the American south and Iguanas in the American southeast are all edible nuisances that need population control.
I think comparing eating plants to be on the same level as eating animals is just a bad comparison. Plants don’t really have a brain, they don’t have the ability to problem solve, they don’t have emotions or memories in the same way that cows, chickens and pigs do.
What’s worse, killing a human with no legs who can’t run away or a human with no arms but legs so they could run away?
If it’s ever discovered that that is the case, then come back to this comment and we can discuss that.
Is not as accessible? So what? Meat is meat right. Humans must eat meat so it’s fine to kill animals according to you. So why not whales? They have it so why not? It’s to survive isn’t it?
Until then, it’s similar to arguing that shutting off the lifeline of a braindead / comatose patient is the same as killing a normal human being. It simply isn’t.
Why do they have extreme population issues? Literally only because of humans’ desire for their meat.
You’re trying to hard to differentiate whale meat from pig, cow, chicken meat. What’s so different? Texture? Taste?
You’re eating an animal. Unnecessarily, since you can definitely live without meat. So what’s so different about taking a life of a cow to eat it, or taking a life of a whale to eat it?
And so what if people farm those animals? What’s your point with that? Many people fish from the oceans and lakes, they aren’t a farm are they?
Not all whales are going extinct. There’s over 1.5 million whales in the oceans. I can’t read the article because I live in Europe but I imagine endangered species are still being treated as endangered.
I’m not sure if I read the whole article (it only showed 2 paragraphs) since there’s a paywall, but did you notice that the article is from 2018? 5 years ago. The headline of this post is talking about the current.
It’s one dude, linking the same article from 5 years ago that doesn’t even mention these new vending machines. Grace me with your proof please. Which endangered species are ending up in these vending machines?