Interesting! I am right to assume that while changing land patterns and declining trade are a bad thing for a large empire (and its cities), the 'avarage' (free) farmer might not have suffered at all (economically) and perhaps even prospered a bit because the tax officers of the empire disappeared (although these were probably swiftly replaced by new ones from new overlords)?
What was the Roman Empire's economy like in the later period of its existence? A combination of paradoxes in many ways. The Roman state still had only rudimentary methods of economic development and extraction. The overwhelming economic sector of the empire was agrarian. The overwhelming amount of money being generated in the economy was derived, ultimately, from land use, both in terms of crops grown and sold, land rents, taxes, etc... This stayed true across the barrier of time from Antiquity to the Medieval period. However the patterns of land use did change. The massive Roman estates of Antiquity, most famously the latifunda of Africa were consigned to the dustbin of history, and other systems across the Roman world in the west were likewise interrupted. Villa and manor estates in Britain for example were carved into petty fiefdoms ruled by local warlords. Northern Francia and Italy saw tremendous amounts of land re-distributed to the new invaders, the Franks and Lombards respectively. And in other parts of the Roman world there was a drastic decrease in the amount of land under active cultivation, especially in Italy where our archaeological evidence is relatively robust.
So this question is rather complicated....as most things involving the end of Antiquity and the beginning of the Middle Ages are. But it seems to me that you're asking what evidence is used to examine economic output, and what are the trends that we, meaning historians and archaeologists, see. So I'll split my answer into two, each taking these in turn. Sound good?
Britain is a useful case study. The Roman British economy was always somewhat marginal to the rest of the Empire. Despite heavy investment by the Roman army, the British economy produced little for the wider Roman world besides rebellious legions, but the Romans there did buy goods from around the Empire such as African pottery. This supply starts to dwindle before all but vanishing in the late 4th century (and continuing at a trickle for the beginning of the Middle Ages) This shows us that Britain was suffering economic disruption. Britain was eventually of course removed from Roman power and fragmented into numerous warlord led polities that eventually coalesced into the proto kingdoms that dominated modern England, Scotland, and Wales.
However I mentioned that the economy was a paradox, because besides the ubiquitous agriculture that remained the economic mainstay of the majority of the population, there were other, far more specialized economic locations. Due to its vast land area, multitudes of people, climates, geographic/geologic conditions, the Roman empire could have certain specialization undertaken. Egypt and North Africa for example were the famous breadbaskets of the Empire, Greece, Italy, and Spain were famed for certain agricultural products like wine, garum, olives, the Roman East was plugged into trade networks that stretched to India, and so on.
With Mediterranean political unity shattered by the collapse of Roman authority in the 5th century, and permanently sundered by the rise of Islamic states starting in the 7th century, new more regional trade patterns developed. Syria and Egypt, long some of the richest portions of the Roman Empire were detached from broader Mediterranean trade and instead localized to the Red Sea trade, the Silk road trade, and trade with Arabia, Persia, India, and to a lesser degree the remnant Roman state of Byzantium. This Islamic trade network was by no means totally closed off to the rest of the Mediterranean or even Europe as a whole, and the Roman Emperor Charlemagne sent envoys and maintained some trade relations as far as Baghdad.
The Northern European parts of the Empire likewise shifted to a more localized economy that centered around the North Sea and the rivers of Northern Europe, notably the Thames, Seine, and Rhine rivers that moved goods along the water ways of Europe, into the North Sea. This system was further encouraged to flourish by the political consolidation of Francia, England, and Germany. As these states all slowly coalesced, their leaders realized that benefiting long term trade was in their interests. This led to the rise of the emporia, trading sites, along the waterways of Europe. These sites were localized trade and manufacturing hubs that were found on convenient spots for trade, in many cases more permanent settlements soon followed. These trade depots allowed for continued international trade across the Northern European world until the Viking Age. Important sites for this trade network included places like London, Frisia, Paris, Hedeby, and other North Sea adjacent cities, as well as cities farther upstream along the major rivers.
The third major change was the advent of the Norse economic world. While this did disrupt the emporia system of Northern Europe (having trade locations located on coasts and major rivers did not survive first contact with viking raiders) the Norse conquests and settlements created a trade network that stretched from Greenland (and briefly the New World) across northern Eurasia to the Islamic world and into India. Viking trade, through Russian rivers mostly, with Byzantium, the Islamic World, and India, fueled by the trade in slaves, furs, and timber in return for silver, silks, weapons, and more, gave vast riches to Scandinavian and later Russian rulers who were able to dominate the trade and its major stations along the rivers of Russia and into the Caspian and Black Seas. Islamic coin hordes found in Scandinavia give the evidence for this network.
We can also track this specialization! Northern Africa for example produced a specific type of pottery, called red slip ware pottery that is rather distinctive, and its presence indicates long term trade to Africa. Now this isn't rare stuff to find during Roman times. When things were going well, the pottery could be shipped all over the empire with little in the way to stop or slow it. But we can track the decline in the Late Antique economy by seeing how patterns of pottery distribution from Africa change.
This economic collapse in the late 4th century was not limited to Britain. Northern Gaul went through a similar process. Indeed across the wider Mediterranean world we see a decrease in the amount of trade that was being sent out of Africa as the empire crumbles. Now it did not vanish overnight, and there was actually a short lived expansion of trade following the Vandal conquest of Africa, but by the 7th century the trade in African pottery had dwindled to near irrelevance, even in areas closer to Africa and still in Roman hands. The Roman economy of the heyday of the empire was well and truly dead by the end of the 7th century.
However, and this is the key point, this decline was not unending. The Mediterranean economy of the Roman empire was dead, but the former parts of the Empire did not stay economically collapsed forever. Instead, they shifted focus. This was partly accomplished through three major changes, the Islamic invasions, the consolidation of Francia under the Merovingians and Carolingians, and the rise of the Norse polities in the 9th century.
The changing economic landscape from Antiquity to the Medieval period is not measured in GDP or things of that nature, as the evidence is not there. We can measure certain metrics for long term trade that did decline in Late Antiquity as the Roman empire collapsed in the West. However this economic decline was not permanent, and the early Middle Ages saw tremendous development of new economic regions that eventually spanned even farther than Roman trade.
There actually is some evidence for an immediate improvement for some people in the aftermath of Roman collapse. However this is contentious and other issues quickly cropped up, both new tax lords, but also issues getting previous staple goods, loss of infrastructure funded by taxes, and so on.