I don't know if it will answer your question, but it is not just common across American diners. They are ubiquitous in Europe too, in the southern countries usually accompanied by olive oil. I imagine they are also common in all the Mediterranean basin, although I am not sure of that. By the time of the settlement of the American colonies, in the 17th and 18th century, salt and pepper were already the most common "spices" used in Europe, so it is no surprise this tradition was carried on to the other side of the Atlantic.
Salt has been a staple ingredient of world cuisine for millennia. It could be called the "first and most common of the spices", and there's archeological evidence of it already being used around the year 6000 BC. Salt can be mined relatively easy, as to get it you mostly need to evaporate seawater to extract the salt. Salt is not endemic to any particular area, you can get it anywhere where there is access to the sea or, less common, where there are salt mines. It was a common ingredient in Antiquity, if somewhat expensive, as the production of salt was a costly and labour-intensive work, prone to health problems on the workers. We have uncovered rests of salt offerings in Ancient Egyptian tombs as far as the 3rd millennium BC, and by Roman Imperial times salt was incredibly common. There's the enduring myth that salt was used as a payment for early Roman soldiers, hence the word "salary", but that is just a speculation from Pliny the Elder, writing in the 1st century AD, when soldiers had been paid in cash for already many centuries.
By the Early Roman Empire, the Red Sea route was the main one to get Indian products to the Mediterranean, bypassing the middlemen in the Persian Empire. The Greek geographer Strabo describes how the Empire sent an annual caravan of ships to India to get goods, and black pepper was one of the most sought after products. A cooking book thought to be compiled in the first century AD (Apicus) cites pepper in most of its recipes. Pliny the Elder, in his monumental Natural History, notes the price of black pepper being four denarii per pound, a considerable amount. Basing us in the annual salary of a Roman legionnaire of 225 denarii and comparing it to a modern soldier in a western country (between 15k and 35k dollars), it wouldn't be crazy to compare it to a current price of 400 dollars a roman pound (so $550 an Imperial pound or $1215/kg). A considerable amount for a regular person, but not prohibitive to the more affluent classes. Curiously, Pliny gives us a moralizing tale about pepper:
Because of this steady stream of pepper, it would become common but scarce, a perfect luxury good; and because of its long lasting preservation, it was sometimes used as a valuable commodity when barter was necessary. When the Visigoth king Alaric sieged Rome in the early 5th century, black pepper was one of his demands for ransoming the city, 3000 pounds of it.
Black pepper is a bit more rare ingredient, as it comes from a plant native to South and South East Asia, still the main producing region of this ingredient. Its use in India goes as back as 2000 BC. In the West, the first remains we have found are in the nostrils of the mummy of the Egyptian pharaoh Rameses II, who died in 1213 BC. In Classical Greece and the Hellenic period, black pepper was already a known item, but only common in the household of the most rich and influential people. It is by this time that trade between the Far East and the Mediterranean started to flourish, specially since the creation of the Achaemenid Empire which connected India and Europe. The land route was paralleled by a sea route, which went both through the Persian Gulf and also around the Arabian peninsula and through the Red Sea.
In the Middle Ages, the Eastern Roman Empire, the Sassanids or the Arabs would become the middlemen bringing pepper into the Mediterranean, and then it would spread via the trading powers of Venice and Genoa. The prices would be significantly higher than in Roman times, considering the amount of middlemen and countries it would take to get it to the final consumer, so western European countries would be willing to open up new trade routes to break with the Arab+Italian monopoly on the spice trade. This desire would push Vasco da Gama, and then Columbus, to lead the Age of Exploration for getting spices from India, specially pepper, at a cheaper price. Later the Dutch and the English would join this push for cheaper trade with Asia, which combined with the plantations of pepper in the Americas (specifically Brazil) brought its price down to a level where even modest homes could afford to use it from time to time.
This lower prices, combined with a long and rich tradition of cooking with pepper in Europe, would make it one of the most common spices used in European cuisine, only surpassed by salt. It makes sense that restaurants and taverns in the Modern era would have it as a common condiment and would start offering it to customers, in case they wanted to spice up their dishes. This tradition would naturally be brought to the Americas by European colonists, and that is how it ended up being so ubiquitous all round the Western world.
There's an excellent book by Mark Kurlansky called Salt, a World History, and I highly recommend it for any one interested in the development of human salt production and consumption through the ages. It has all kinds of numerous tidbits including how salt was gathered, mined, or evaporated and it is one of my favorite of his works (right up there with Cod). It was rather well researched but it is written in a very approachable manner and remains entertaining.