Submit a FOIA request to get the full story. Keep it narrow to just the 45k in supplies, but broad enough to capture everything relating to the purchase of those supplies. If you want help, you can hire a lawyer to help with the request. There is likely a FOIA contact at the district that you should direct the letter to.
You realize that $45k in supplies could very well be reasonable depending on the size of the district and the programs they are running? Art supplies are cheap from your perspective, but you aren't buying them for 10 art classes with 30 kids, 8 times a day. Suddenly giving a group of kids $0.10 worth of cotton balls for a single project is a $250 problem.
They are also frontloading supplies... they buy them for the entire year all at once because the money will be gone by June. They don't order on amazon from the cheapest vendor two days before they need them because that is likely illegal (and impossible to plan, coordinate, and audit).
I mean ffs I work with small school districts that spend close to six figures on printing... they cart in rooms full of palettes of paper at the beginning of the year. What is the net revenue of the school district? If it's a $1mm org, you might have an argument. If it's a $20mm org, $45k is basically nothing. That would barely buy a decent laptop for a few dozen teachers.
No, The reason I gave a max value of $2,000 is because that is the value of the items. I know the exact quantities of everything. It's less than $1,000 worth if you spent an hour or so shopping for best price.
It costs real money to comply with these regulations. And it's money spent that a random dude doing drop shipping on Amazon never has to think about. So no it's not really overpayment as it is paying for what the government requires of the vendors.
Schools can't shop for the best price. I work in NJ, but I imagine NC has very similar rules. They have to bid out those supplies and select from the bid replies. Or work with a vendor that has been pre-approved by the state. By law... the leadership could go to jail if they don't comply. So while you may be able to find individual items cheaper, they may not have the same subset of purchasing options that you do. Or, there might be other reasons. Many of the more expensive vendors will do things that would immediately exclude them from typical consumer use. For example, net 30/60/90 payment terms, flexible freight delivery, accepting purchase orders, dealing with the government bureaucracy to become an approved vendor (because people got annoyed with the gov spending lots of money and wanted answers, and the resulting restrictions and reporting requirements raised the net cost significantly...).