Mondale painted himself into a corner against Reagan and formulated bad campaign strategies that backfired upon himself.
Mondale believed that with the fiscal deficit that Reagan was running that taxes needed to be raised, and announced he'd be cutting the deficit through large scale tax increases and that admitting this made him honest because Reagan would have to do it in the future anyway. But polling showed that 80% of Americans believed the deficit should be reduced via budget cuts rather than tax increases and Reagan announced he had no plans to actually raise or lower taxes. Mondale's tax plan also showed it would raise taxes on middle-income earners. Whilst Democrats had traditionally advocated for higher taxes in return for greater prosperity Mondale seemed to be advocating for tax raises in return for nothing.
Voters, in general, were pleased with Reagan's economic performance whilst in office, with his approval on the economy consistently above 60%. Private-sector job creation was nearly the strongest on record, economic growth the fastest in 34 years, housing starts at their highest in 6, unemployment falling although still relatively high, interest and inflation low. For an America which had just gotten through a serious recession Mondale's beating of the drum for restraint, tax increases, and caution wasn't appealing.
Voters, in general, were far less positive with Reagan's foreign policy which was at 50% or less, with polling showing 40% of Americans believed they'd see a nuclear holocaust which would end humanity within their lifetimes. Voters were worried by Reagan's aggressive posturing and at his failure to negotiate with the Soviet Union after the Soviet Union walked out of the 1983 Geneva Convention. Mondale attacked Reagan on this by proposing a softer tone and an immediate push for arms reduction but somewhat bizarrely voters didn't like this either. Polling showed that while people were afraid of Reagan's foreign policy they did approve of the concept of "peace through strenh" and they didn't actually want a more conciliatory president. Soviet foreign minister Andrei Gromyko's visit to the White House and the ascension of Chernenko to leader of the Soviet Union seemed to alleviate fears of a full-blown war, and showed that Reagan was able to be both strong and guarantee peace.
Reagan also underwent a process criticized as "blandification" where he somewhat distanced himself from his party and presented himself as a national figure of peace and unity, who wanted every day to be the 4th of July and brought Morning Again to America. Notably whilst Reagan won a landslide the Republicans lost 2 seats in the Senate and an 18 seat gain in the house still meant there were 253 Democrats to 182 Republicans, leading to a lashing out of some Republican figures, unhappy that Reagan seemed to do little for his party, with Newt Gingrich declaring "He should have been running against liberals".
So Reagan was well received on economic issues whilst Mondale painted himself in a corner nobody seemed to support. Mondale advocated for an unpopular foreign policy whilst Reagan seemed to solve one of the key problems of his Presidency and alleviate concerns about nuclear war, moreover, Reagan was able to project a very positive feel-good tone of the campaign which attempted to reach out to all Americans.
Morgan, Iwan "The age of deficits: Presidents and unbalanced budgets from Jimmy Carter to George W. Bush".
Do you know where Mondale got those unpopular positions from? Were they genuinely his positions? Did he or his campaign conduct polling that falsely convinced them that people would support those positions? Were those positions that the DNC wanted him to run on?
It’s always so great to see such a quality answer to a question. I love this subreddit. Anyways, I wanted to ask a follow up question.
The US federal debt increased in size and as a percentage of GDP over the course of the 1980s. Per the , in 1981 the federal debt held by the public was $789.4 billion (or 34% of GDP), and in 1989 the debt was $2,190 trillion (50% of GDP), for a net increase of $1.266 trillion.
Did he end up solving the budetary issues without tax increases or cutting services? Which is to say-- was Mondale right in the end? If not, what did Reagan do that Mondale didn't foresee?
The annual federal budget deficit went from $79 billion, peaked in 1986 at $221.2 billion in 1986, and fell to $152.6 billion in 1989. According to estimates by the Brookings Institution, this annual deficit went from almost being 6% of GDP in 1983 to more like 3% of GDP by 1989, but this is partially from the economy growing by the late 1980s. There wasn't a budget surplus until 1998-2001, and hasn't been one since then, by the way.
The big change in federal budgeting that did happen in Reagan's second term was the Tax Reform Act of 1986. This act was a major overhaul of federal taxes, and was passed with bipartisan support in Congress (as it needed to, as there was a Democratic majority in the House). It technically was revenue neutral, in that it reduced the number of income tax brackets and lowered income tax rates, but also raised the Alternative Minimum Tax and eliminated a number of tax loopholes.
Otherwise, the federal deficits were financed by borrowing - a substantial part came from foreign sources, but overall most of it was from domestic investors. Despite the increase in the deficits and overall debt, because of macroeconomic conditions and monetary conditions (via the Federal Reserve), treasury interest rates actually dropped between 1981 and 1989, so the federal government was able to pay less for borrowed funds.
To make a long story short, in terms of economic recovery in the 1980s, the Federal Reserve Bank's successful breaking of inflation, and the US exercising its rather unique borrowing power as the issuer of the world's reserve currency, there wasn't a point where the US had to raise federal taxes in order to maintain fiscal solvency.
However, his approval dropped substantially after this time, and it was in large part because of the July 1981 to December 1982 economic recession, which among other things saw the unemployment rate break 10% for the first time since the Great Depression. They actually hit a low of 35% expressing approval in the president by early 1983.
I don't believe the data bears this out. Gallup reviews its approval ratings for Reagan over the course of his presidency .
Reagan was shot by John Hinckley on March 30, 1981, just over two months after his inauguration. His approval ratings before the assassination attempt were around 60% (which is relatively common, in that incoming presidents tend to get a brief "honeymoon" period in the polls), and after the assassination attempt his ratings went up to 68%.
However, the economy began to turn around at this point, and Reagan also seemed to enjoy some rally-around-the-flag effects from the invasion of Grenada, and interestingly also because of the bombing that killed 241 Marines in Beirut. By late 1983 his approval ratings were above 50%, and stayed there in 1984 (he had a 58% approval rating during the election), and it continued to move up into his second term, hitting a high of 68% in mid-1986.
The Iran-Contra scandal broke this rise, and his approval rating plummeted to 47%, where it stayed for 1987, although it again went up as his presidency ended, hitting 63% in late 1988.
Which is to say that Reagan's approval ratings actually had pretty massive swings, in ways that Presidential approval ratings really haven't had in maybe 20 years. A lot of that initial goodwill evaporated because of bad economic conditions - but then rematerialized as the economy stabilized and recovered.