Did your sister tell SSA, clearly and in writing, that you should be the designated contact on the account?
Did you look up the social security number online and call it directly or call some number that was given to you by these people? Look it up and call directly to find out what’s going on … not the number you’ve been calling. Did your sister go to social security? Call them directly? How did this get initiated.
A lawyer is never a bad idea. It seems like overkill here. You need to get SSA whatever it is they want to talk to you and not sister.
I'm very concerned by this. My question right now would be: where is your mother's body? It is, most likely, at a funeral home. Typically, before the body can be cremated, the state requires a number of disclosures and certain permits must be pulled.
In addition, Social Security has nothing whatsoever to do with funeral or cremation arrangements. They just pay a survivors benefit. This is absolutely a scam.
And you should immediately take steps to freeze your credit and check your credit reports immediately. If this is a scam they now have every piece of info they need to do real harm for years. Please research to find out what you need to do. If this is indeed a scam you should contact the police as you will need a police report to begin fixing this.
When a person is found dead, typically, the police come. If they are able to easily get in contact with the next of kin, they will ask which funeral home you want. If they can't get in contact, what happens next depends on the local laws and ordinances. Sometimes, the body will be taken by the local coroner/medical examiner and held.
During this time, typically the funeral director would go ahead and get a death certificate and usually give you what paperwork you need to file for the death benefit.
If it's a smaller city or town and has an elected coroner, they are most likely to also be a funeral home and will hold the body. If it's large enough that the ME has storage, they will hold the body. After a certain amount of time has passed, they will typically send the body to a local funeral home for either burial in a potter's field or cremation. During this time, they work on finding next of kin.
Oh boy. I am very sorry to say this, but I am guessing this is a scam and you have given all your information to scammers. The social security death benefit is like $255. They don’t pay for cremations to my knowledge.