If your name is on the complaint you need to file an answer. And you can try a motion to dismiss, though you'd likely be better served to see if you can convince attorney for plaintiff of that and then dismiss together.
If your name is not on the complaint you don't have to do anything. But you might call the court and let them know you were served with someone else's paperwork so the true defendant doesn't have default judgment entered because plaintiff mistakenly thinks they were served.
Do you owe this original creditor money? This sounds like they attached the wrong statement to their suit. Which would be something they can correct.
The summons has my name on it. And a case . The claim has someone else's name and info and an entirely unrelated suit . But the same case . I went on the Broward clerk website and looked up the case . Its a collection agency definitely suing me for a charge off debt they bought from a bank . I dont know how to proceed. Do I file an answer based on what was served me denying everything? Ask for dismissal? Thanks.
Ok. Either the serving attorney or the process server screwed up. What you should do will depend on the result you want to achieve. Except in very specific situations, there's no real advantage to you to not telling the issuing attorney about the screw up.
In any event your likely first move from here is to call the attorney who sued you, point to the discrepancy, and see what he does.
The bank charged it off 2 yrs ago. I was going thru some personal issues then lost my business during the covid shut down . and just didnt pay attention to the payments. They charged it off after about 6 months. A bulk debt buying LVNV bought it and file the suit a few weeks ago.
Is this a business debt, or is it in your personal name? If it's in your name, then your best bet is to probably negotiate a settlement.
That's when they charged it off. When was your last payment? I'm asking because the statute of limitations is based on when you first fell behind, not on when the bank charged it off.
I called the attorney for the plaintiff. Seems they are an in house council . I tried to be cordial and explain their mess up. they of course were very flippant. Transferred me to the collector in charge of my account and told me they would drop it If I pay 60% of the amt.