More can always be said on the matter if anyone would like to address the matter of semi-automatic weaponry in the interwar period; for the meantime, as this has come up (milhist is like that), here are some previous posts for your perusal:
The short answer to this question is complexity, semi auto rifles were significantly more difficult to manufacture, but also to maintain in the field, requiring much more significant logistical and training support given to soldiers, post Second World War every belligerent saw the benefit of semi auto rifles and began producing them and issuing them but that was with the benefit of hindsight, having seen how they performed in the war and in the context of the modern battlefield of the time.
The not as short answer changes per country, as you stated the US Army entered the war with the Garand as its standard issue rifle (although its worth noting that 2nd line units, reserve units and the USMC didn't receive the Garand until the war had already started, using the Springfield instead in the initial campaigns). The procurement program for the M1 Garand (or what would eventually become the M1 Garand) started in 1924, and it was adopted in the late 30's and the Army was predominantly equipped with Garands by 1942 (although again it's worth noting that deliveries of the Springfield continued until early 1944), so the US procurement program that allowed it to enter the war with a semi auto rifle took the better part of 20 years, and not every country had the privilege of expending resources on such programs.
During the same time period as above Germany was effectively crippled militarily by the Treaty of Versailles and when they began their rearmament programs the bulk of the focus was on tanks and aircraft, as you stated their infantry doctrine was built around the MG34/42 as the primary "punch" of the Grenadier squad (they issued their requirements for a semi auto rifle in 1939, Gun Jesus talks about the requirements in the first few minutes of ).
The UK during this time was still dealing with the ramifications of the First World War and while it did develop advances in weapons there was little appetite for completely changing the standard issue weapon of one of the most spread out and varied standing armies in the world (in particular the range of environments was a concern), similarly to the Germans the British (and Commonwealth) built their rifle sections around the Bren LMG, who's role it was to suppress the enemy while the riflemen were there to fire accurate shots at long distance (automatic weapons were present in the form of submachine guns but British doctrine heavily emphasised accurate rifle fire at a distance as the best way to deal with an enemy force), for their doctrine the SMLE was perfectly suited to what the British wanted from their standard issue weapon (and this remains' the case even today, where the British Army emphasises marksmanship and accuracy over other aspects of weapons).
The Russians began issuing self loading rifles during the First World War but national upheaval during the Revolution stalled their programs, they ended up on a similar track to the US procurement program (with troops armed with semi auto rifles fought during the Finnish War in 1939), the intention was for the entire Red Army to be equipped with the SVT38/40 however the German invasion in 1941 delayed those plans. Again repeating complexity, the SVT was a good rifle but by the end of the war there were 12,000,000+ troops in the Red Army who required weapons and the Mosin was far simpler to produce than the SVT and therefor remained the standard (although several million SVT's were manufactured and were relatively common throughout the Red Army) (Again you can watch more about the procurement and the rifles in detail from ).
As you say in your OP Italy, Japan didn't really have the industrial base to mass produce semi auto weapons (or to conduct the research required to build them), I don't really know much about France so I can't comment on their efforts.
In summary the complexity of semi auto rifles in both manufacture and maintenance combined with an "if it isn't broken don't fix it" attitude from many militaries (particularly on the Allied side as they won the last big war with these weapons) lead to several major nations dragging their heels when it came to semi auto rifle procurement, however once the advantage became clear during and immediately after the war it was a priority for most nations to acquire semi auto rifles (the UK had the L1A1 (FAL) in 1954, the Russians introduced the SKS in 1945 and then converted entirely to the AK47 in the late 1950's (Again this is a good example of the complexity of the semi auto/assault rifles as even copying the STG-44 it took the Soviet Union the better part of 10 years to introduce their own version).
TL;DR It's hard to design, hard to manufacture and hard to maintain semi automatic rifles at the scale that the 2nd World War was fought at, and the only country with sufficient industrial capacity to do it was the US, but the Red Army and the Wehrmacht had significant numbers of troops armed with self loading rifles by 1945.
Edit: I've included a couple of Youtube videos if you want to hear more about those specific weapons mentioned (I do recommend them they are full of useful tidbits) but here are some actual sources.
All the future combatants were experimenting with mechanization and armored forces, which require significant investment to equip, train, and maintain.
Replacing artillery which was obsolete or simply worn out by WWI was also a much higher priority for most countries, and given the percentage of casualties caused in WWI (and WWII) by artillery, there was a good reason that was a bigger priority than rifles. Where money was spent on small-arms, machine guns were a higher priority than rifles.
The various powers not only had constrained budgets, but competing demands for those constrained budgets. Look at the pace of aircraft development in the 1920s and 1930s - most powers completely replaced their entire air force repeatedly during that time period because a plane that was top notch in 1929 was at best a trainer in 1939.
It's a small thing, but the French began transitioning to a rimless cartridge (7.5x54 French) in the 1920s, and most frontline units were equipped with weapons chambered in the new cartridge by 1940.
We can also look at the cartridges available in most countries. France and the UK used a rimmed cartridge less suitable for semiautomatic rifles. This would have necessitated not only replacing the huge quantities of rifles, but the massive stockpiles of ammunition those rifles would need in a future war. And given that, for very good reasons, most countries were thinking in terms of protracted attritional warfare, that was not an attractive prospect.
With all that, we have to ask why the US bothered, and that answer is relatively simple. The US has fetishized individual marksmanship and the firepower of the common infantryman for a very long time and it is ingrained in our military and even civil culture. This is partially driven by the place of personal firearms in our culture, and partially by our refusal to field mass peacetime armies of limited training. In fact, OP's question is a perfect example of that cultural place that firearms hold.
Yes, it was starting to happen - and in conjunction with that cartridge, they were adopting self-loading rifles. The MAS 40 was only available to a handful of units. My understanding was that the plan was that by 1942, the MAS 40 would be in front-line infantry units with the MAS 36 issued to other troops.
Hi, I included the videos if people were interested in hearing more about the specific weapons themselves but I'll get some sources together and update the post! (Thanks for not just deleting, I know that's your usually policy).