First, I see myself and other scholars citing primary sources all the time, so I'm a little confused by the question. Are you reading pop history books? Those tend to be much less vigilant.
Because history is not just a dialogue with 'primary sources'. It's a dialogue between scholars. A natural result of that is accretion. Say Scholar A in 1897 says, as you wrote, "Xenophon says X, but Herodotus says Y, so we can determine its actually Z". Scholar B in 1993 revists this and argues that, in fact, Xenophon, Herodotus, and Scholar A are all wrong, and the situation is in fact W. Most scholars find this argument compelling. I, writing in 2020, am building on Scholar B's argument, and so cite her - and only her. My paper is not the place to revisit the entire argument between Xenophon and Herodotus. I'm not actually using their writings directly at all. I'm using Scholar B's interpretation of them. That is what history is about - interpretation, not the dry compiling of facts and dates.
Of course secondary sources can be wrong; they are built on argument and interpretation. But so, of course, can primary sources. And remember that the "sources" are not just written texts. Scholar B, in building her argument, surely read Xenophon and Herodotus, but she may also be drawing on archaeology, sociology, anthropology, climatology, whatever. There is much, much more to the work of history than just reading and discussing so-called "primary sources".
Not if it hasn't been digitized or published, which - because those things take time and money - is the case for the vast majority of things. I can cite MS Ashmole 357, but it hasn't been digitized or made into a facsimile, so unless you go to the British Library and consult it yourself you can't see it. Everyone would like that not to be the case, and it is getting better, but there's not much chance of the huge hoard of cuneiform tablets being digitized en masse any time soon.
If I'm doing my job well, I will give you the "full chain of logic" for why I've interpreted Ashmole 357 the way I have. But I'm not going to rehearse Scholar B's argument in full (though I may well summarize it). She wrote a whole paper for that. I'm writing about something else.
What would you expect them to do? I can't digitize the whole manuscript myself - even if I had the technology or time to do it, and the money to host it online, it belongs to the BL, not to me. I can't make a facsimile for the same reason, plus I'd need a publisher. I could edit it, but that's a tremendous amount of work for not a lot of payoff - and I'd still need a publisher or to pay to host a website. Everyone would like for there to be more editions, but it's a lot of work, and it doesn't tend to help one's career much. And remember, I'm not writing for a general audience. I'm writing for other academics, who hopefully have enough institutional support to go look at the thing themselves.
If a major discover between the time of Scholar B's paper and mine has been made, I will (if I'm doing my job right) account for it in my paper. If you're saying "but if I'm just reading Scholar B, how do I know if a major discovery has been made?" then, well, there's no easy answer. Academics know about these things because we attend conferences and read journals and talk to our peers. If you're not in that network, it can be difficult to find out about new findings.
First of all, in retrospect I hope my original post wasn't coming off aggressive at all. I'm not trying to make any kind of argument, in spite of me expressing a form of frustration. Something that has bothered my casual research for a long time, and when I found this subreddit I'd thought i'd ask.
No, that's not what I'm referring to, specifically at least. Admittedly though, I'm not the kind of person to read periodical articles on a regular basis, either. I'm mostly talking about your typical history textbook in an university or library.
Obviously, this comes down to my personal tastes about history, since I've never been a professional historian myself. I'm a Computer Scientist by profession, and my view of the world does tend to boil down to facts and dates (among other things). This is why my suggestion was treating history like a Euclidean mathematical proof, where the series of steps are spelled out, however redundant, so the reader can see everything in one place instead of having to look up some other paper. I understand history is generally a field of humanities and literature, not mathematics, so I guess that's where the interpretation diverges.
Again, I believe this comes to a difference of philosophy. I'm not a historian, so the dialogue between scholars in the modern era has no impact on me. I just want the facts, and the secondary sources are a vehicle to get ad fontes, as the Renaissance would say.
If we take history as an interpretation, then there becomes a confusion between taking the interpretation of Scholar B, which I may or may not agree with, and using it as a fact in your own paper (not you specifically, it's the nature of the analogy). In spite of "most scholars finds this argument compelling" still does not remove it from being an interpretation, nor does it necessitate that I have to agree with it.
When I work in Computer Science, I cultivate an expectation of things to be as efficient as possible. So when I can't access information at the snap of my fingers, when I know that information does exist somewhere (as opposed to the Tyrian Annals), then that becomes the origin of my frustration. Ordinarily I take that for granted, as some things have physical limitations as you've described. But then when I start reading a 17th century historian, my mind immediately goes "wow, this makes things so much easier. Why can't everyone be like this?".
You, of course, do not revisit the argument of Xenophon and Herodotus because it is not the focus of your paper. But we now, from my perspective, have a weak link in the chain: your argument indirectly relies on a fact from Scholar B's interpretation of Scholar A's analysis of Herodotus. Because you don't revisit the original argument, I have no idea Herodotus had anything to do with this. But if I decided, on a whim, to go ad fontes and I also decided to disagree with the original argument (slogging through many bibliographies later) then the chain is broken and everything falls into question.
This would have been a lot easier if you did revisit the entire argument, like a Euclidean proof, all the way back to the baseless assumptions. Of course, as I said in my original post that would be extremely redundant and almost unreadable, but the payoff would be that the entire argument is clear.
I can understand why that can be unreasonable to ask, as I've said, my mind almost wants to treat history like a computer program. Software is not a language the layman can understand, but I know exactly what it's going to do because not one byte of information is out of my reach.
Maybe, when a professional historian reads the same paper, they automatically know that Scholar B is an interpretation and don't fall into this confusion. This is not a skill I have cultivated.