To summarise, while there was a strong drive within the Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) for war with the Soviet Union, the war in China had kept the majority of the IJA tied down, while--by 1941--the consensus among Japanese policy makers was solidifying around the Southern Operation, which would involve attacks on the American, British, and Dutch colonial holdings in southeast Asia. The Japanese-Soviet Neutrality Pact, concluded in April 1941, would serve to protect Japan's northern flank while it went south. When Germany embarked on Operation Barbarossa, some in Japanese leadership pressed for an immediate war against the Soviet Union (including Foreign Minister Matsuoka, who had just negotiated the nonagression pact with the Soviets), but it quickly became obvious to Japan that the Soviet Union was in no danger of collapsing in 1941, and that Japan should avoid being tied down in another large scale war on the Asian mainland, unless it was to pick up the pieces in the event of a Soviet collapse. To this end, the Japanese welcomed the German attack on the Soviet Union, as it basically ensured the Soviets would be unable to attack Japan as it embarked on its war with the Western powers.
One element I don't think I stressed enough in my linked answer is that Japanese leadership did not exactly trust the Germans in 1941. Until quite recently, Germany had been heavily involved in support for the Nationalist government in China, and many of the best Nationalist troops were German trained and equipped. In the political sphere, the Japanese had encountered a relatively recent "betrayal" at the hands of Germany. In 1936, Japan had joined in the Anti-Comintern Pact, which was supposed to ensure German-Japanese cooperation on anti-Soviet policy. However, from Tokyo's perspective, Germany had breached the treaty by signing the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact in 1939, agreeing that Germany would not attack the Soviet Union. In Tokyo, this came as a huge betrayal, as suddenly the Japanese felt vulnerable, since it raised the prospect of a Soviet attack on Japan, without concern for a potential German attack. This apparent German betrayal soured Japanese attitudes towards Germany, and even when the Tripartite Pact was signed in late 1940, it included a clause that noted it did not impact any signers relations with the Soviet Union.
I know that it’s not good to deal in hypotheticals, but if the Japanese had attacked the soviets during the time of Barbarossa, instead of attacking to the south and the western allies, would it have been successful?
I know there is an idea that the soviets were “saved” when they found out that the Japanese had no plans to attack and they could divert multiple fresh divisions to defend Moscow, stopping the initial German assault and being the first major turning point against the Germans in the war.
So could Japan have feasibly conducted an attack that would have slammed the soviets at this point instead of going toward Australia? Or is this not likely either?
Similarly, the question of Moscow is itself a massive "What If" that is not the kind of question we deal with here. There are far too many variables. Perhaps the diversion of troops is sufficient that Moscow does fall, or perhaps the Japanese invasion of Siberia turns into Nomonhan on a massive scale and the Soviets are able to move troops west regardless. Or maybe the Soviets keep fighting on after the fall of Moscow and the Germans are unable to hold it. It's simply impossible to know with any degree of certainty. However, what we can know is that by 1941, Japanese attention was firmly fixed in the south. The resources Japan needed with the American asset freeze and oil embargo in place were in Southeast Asia, not Sibera. By then, even the most diehard "Northern Expansion" officers would've agreed that regardless Japan would need to take the resources of Asia first before dealing with the Soviets, unless the Soviets completely collapsed to the German invasion, in which case Japan would happily take what it could.
Unfortunately, we don't really countenance "What If" questions here so I won't speculate on whether a Japanese entry into the war could have actually produced a Soviet collapse. It's worth noting that the last major clash between Japanese and Soviet forces at Nomonhan had resulted in a severe Japanese defeat, and brought Japanese capacity to overcome Soviet armor and artillery superiority under question.