I think considering precedents can be a very useful tool, especially for establishing why breaks with that precedent are significant. For instance, we could say, "During events w, x, and y, people did this, or acted this way. Suddenly during event z they acted differently or didn't do what they did before." I think this sets up a really cool opportunity to investigate why precedent was or wasn't followed. I do a lot of military history, so certain glaring examples ("You never get involved in a land war in Asia" and "You never invade Russia in the Winter") come to mind.
I'd encourage cautious, or maybe "educated" use of precedents. I always try to remember that while precedents can help explain things, the conditions are never exactly the same. Therefore, if we use precedent to make predictions, we need to hold those predictions loosely.
I’ve always been happy to see historians wade in on current affairs, as I believe they provide much needed nuance to what the public often sees as a Yes/No problem. However, I am also a firm believer that while historians can try to predict the future, history itself can not. The use of historical precedent can often lead to the misguided belief we can draw firm lessons from history, as illustrated in the case of counterinsurgency.
In 2007, General Petraeus presided over “The Surge,” a new influx of American and coalition troops to once and for all defeat the festering Iraqi insurgency. Along with it came a new “doctrine” of “hearts and minds,” encapsulated in US Army Field Manual 3–24, Counterinsurgency. The authors claimed an enemy-centric approach to counterinsurgency (COIN), that focused on the elimination of hostile insurgents, was not working. Instead, the new population-centric approach emphasised the need of COIN forces to win the “hearts and minds” of the native population, through providing security and economic aid. In the manual, Patraeus and other authors mention specifically the influence of the French theorist, David Galula, who adopted a population-centric approach during his service as a company commander at the height of the Algerian War of Independence. Similarly, the British Army Field Manual Volume 1 Part 10: Countering Insurgency, claimed that the British army had a long tradition of “minimum force,” as seen in the Malayan Emergency and the Mau Mau Rebellion in Kenya. These historical precedents, the authors stated, pointed to a new, successful way forward in COIN.
At the same time, academics became increasingly aware that the historical precedents cited by the COIN thinkers had little relation with “hearts and minds.” John Nagl’s 2002 book Learning to Eat Soup with a Knife: Counterinsurgency Lessons from Malaya and Vietnam was singled out for particular criticism. Nagl argued the British way of “minimum force” of providing aid and isolating the population from the insurgents led to eventual victory in Malaya. However, British historians have shown there was nothing “minimum force” about “minimum force.” In The British Way in Counter-Insurgency, published in 2011, David French points out the forcible resettlement of civilians in concentration camps was a major factor in British success in Malaya. Nagl and other COIN thinkers were also critical of Westmoreland’s perceived enemy-centric approach in the Vietnam War and argued it was a lesson not learned. Once again, historians pushed back against this perception - Dale Andrade’s 2008 article “Westmoreland was Right” argued Westmoreland was facing both an insurgency and a conventional war at the same time, forcing him to develop a more nuanced doctrine that took elements of both enemy-centric and population-centric approaches (u/Bernardito do correct me if I'm wrong!). Another point of critique was that COIN thinkers often confused population-centric with population-friendly. Gregory Mathias and Douglas Porch have both argued Galula’s focus on infrastructure improvements and democratic state-building have been over-emphasised. Indeed, Galula did advocate for coercive methods such as interrogation and withholding aid to pressure the population to turn over hidden insurgents. Mathias even goes further to state Galula’s own attempts at creating a local political organisation in his sector in Algeria was an unmitigated failure. A deeper analysis has shown that the historical precedents cited by COIN thinkers have little to do with historical reality.
This case study of counterinsurgency thinking shows the problems of using precedents. There is always a problem of cherry-picking in citing historical precedents. As shown above, it is far too easy to only look at what conforms to theory and ignore what does not. A further problem is that no two cases are the same. There are too many different factors in history. To compare France’s Algerian insurgency and America’s Iraqi insurgency, one has to consider differences in politics, economy, social structure, cultures, even factors as mundane as literacy rates and geography. Many who use historical precedents believe the current situation can be compared with a historical case study in the form of a scientific experiment, by changing one variable only. History shows that there are too many variables to count. I am not saying we - historians or not - should never use historical precedents. Historical precedents are useful to show nuance, to provide context, to help us understand how our forebears confronted similar problems. However, to take a precedent out of historical context, and argue it should be straightforwardly applied to current affairs, is a lesson wrongly learned.
Initially, the response was positive - “The Surge” seemed to be succeeding, and the Iraqi population looked like it was finally turning against the insurgents in the form of the Sunni Awakening. However, by 2010, it was widely perceived that the Iraqi government only had a precarious hold on authority and that “hearts and minds” was no more successful than the previous enemy-centric approach.
There is a tendency by certain scholars to buy into the idea of 'the myth of counterinsurgency'. Douglas Porch, for example, is one of those scholars. David French, unfortunately, falls into that same category. The 'Myth of COIN' was a scholarly reaction to the inability of contemporary practitioners of COIN to win the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. It was an argument that dominated the professional (sometimes non-historian-written) literature on COIN during the 2010s. The argument goes along the line that because the war in Afghanistan and Iraq remained misunderstood and without a clear victory, that must mean that counterinsurgency itself is to blame and that in reality, any successes in the past were not based on classic COIN tenants. Therefore, counterinsurgency is a lie. This is a very extreme but accurate example of this type of scholarship, see Critics gone wild: Counterinsurgency as the root of all evil by David H. Ucko in Small Wars & Insurgencies for an in-depth look.
This is a very interesting topic. Indeed, many ideas of what historical COIN conflicts actually looked like, and particularly those wrapped in ideas of national cultural ways of waging war, has been thoroughly criticized by historians, as you point out. However, some of these arguments do need to be put into a broader scholarly context, perhaps more historiographical than anything else.
Think this is a good lesson for everyone reading - I've only presented one side of historical interpretation, and u/Bernardito has helpfully jumped in to provide another. Besides context to historical precedents, context to the writing of history (historiography) is equally as important!
The "Myth of COIN" is ironically the complete opposite of a historical precedent - that is, imposing what we see in the present into examples of the past. As mentioned, Douglas Porch is certainly guilty of this. In his polemic against Galula in The New Counter-Insurgency Era in Critical Perspective, he more or less critiques Galula through the prism of the US Army Field Manual 3–24 and modern American COIN failure. Furthermore, in his haste to undermine Galula, he confuses French counterinsurgency in Algeria with Galula's own practices in the Kabylie region. This just goes to show that there is no historian who is unbiased (me included), and current affairs often has undue influence on how historians write history. However, such revisionism does have its positives: "a British Way of COIN" is now thoroughly (and rightly) discredited, while there is a greater appreciation that an enemy-centric/population-centric dichotomy might not be that useful in understanding COIN.
A fantastic discussion on this very subject, the mixture of historical precedent and the projection of the present onto the past, is the chapter True to form? Questioning British counterinsurgency tradition by Robert Egnell and David Ucko in Insurgencies and Counterinsurgencies: National Styles and Strategic Cultures (2017, Cambridge University Press). This is a more recent and up-to-date view of where our understanding of historical British COIN is, and takes up a lot of what you've already mentioned in your previous post in the connection of the present with the past.
Hope you don't mind u/Bernardito, but I am really interested in what you say about the Malayan Emergency - do you mind expanding on the resettlement camps a bit more? My lecturers all seem to consider French's book or Hack's chapter in The British approach to counterinsurgency to be the final word on the subject (probably since everyone at KCL War Studies is still traumatised by British COIN). I can put it up as a separate thread if you want.