Thanks for linking to this old post! There's a couple more things I could say that are more directly relevant to the question in this thread.
First is the fact that Alexander did face notable revolts of formerly conquered territory. When he came to power, huge swathes of his father's empire tried to break away. Alexander regained Illyria with a show of force and skill, reconquered Thrace, and razed the Greek city of Thebes to the ground. His astonishingly fast and decisive action cowed most others into accepting his rule for the moment. That was what allowed him to cross over to Asia in the first place.
These kinds of stories help us understand why so many territories accepted the rule of Alexander. Sure, it would be nice to be independent and not have to pay tribute, but wars were costly and unpleasant and Macedon tended to win them. Given the complete superiority of Antipater in Greece even while Alexander had the main army in Asia, it's not surprising that most people would choose the easier path. Alexander largely seems to have left the Persian administrative structures and tribute levels intact, which means that for many people in the former Persian empire the change was almost cosmetic. If they had lived with Persian rule for 2 centuries, they could put up with Macedonian rule for however long it would last.
In 331 BC, while he was advancing through the Fertile Crescent, the Spartans made an alliance with some other Peloponnesian states and revolted. Alexander famously dismissed this as a "battle of mice" and refused to go home and deal with it. His regent Antipater crushed the rebellion at Megalopolis and killed king Agis of Sparta. Alexander was lucky to be able to rely on such a capable regent; other rulers (like Agesilaos of Sparta 65 years earlier) had thought it wiser to return home than to continue on recklessly against the Persians.
When news of Alexander's death reached the Greek world, a large part of Central Greece rebelled under the leadership of Athens, but despite some initial Athenian successes Antipater managed to contain the situation and win the so-called Lamian War.
That said, as I tried to make clear in my other post, Alexander's empire was never an empire in the sense we understand it; many regions would have submitted only nominally, or negotiated a qualified surrender of autonomy. Especially since Alexander took no time to establish a lasting imperial administration, his conquests will have actually looked like a patchwork of semi-autonomous states and communities that had simply (and literally) chosen the path of least resistance.
The Persian tradition is actually a great deal more complicated. Just like the Greek sources, there are centuries between Alexander and the first Persian sources reflecting on him. The most significant accounts (like the court history of Ferdowsi) are written in the period after the Arab conquest (more than 1000 years after Alexander). These sources are written in a world where the myth of Alexander is well-established. While some rulers of the later Parthian and Sasanid dynasties profiled themselves as descendants of Darius III "who fought Alexander", others tried to claim descent from both royal families, uniting the strenhs and virtues of both sides. It is clear that the memory of the distant Achaemenid past was extremely thin and patchy, and later Persian elites probably simply did not know about the extent of Achaemenid power or its downfall.
I have this follow-up: I have heard (wrongly or not - I do not know) that Alexander is (was?) known in Persian culture as the “daemon king”, i.e. a personification of evil. And that his conquest started a nasty period of destruction and war for the locals. That the local zoroastrian population had to put up with their new Greek-speaking overlords, who saw them as savages and were, generally, quite unpleasant as rulers. Is there any truth to this?
As for Alexander himself, he clearly did not care. Traditionally he is often accused of making no arrangements at all to pacify his conquests and turn them into a Macedonian empire. He was singularly obsessed with leading his army and conquering more and more lands. More recent scholars have qualified this a lot; they point out that his going through the proper pharaonic rites of accession in Egypt and trying to integrate Persian elites into his army are clear signs of an attempt to legitimise his rule in the eyes of the people he conquered. Possibly his marriage to Roxane should be seen in the same light. But it is true that even on his return to Babylon he does not seem to have devoted much time to setting up an empire, instead spending his days plotting further conquests. So if he seems to have neglected his hinterland it is because he wasn't the kind of guy to worry about what was behind him.
In addition, it is extremely hard to tell what ordinary inhabitants of Persia thought about anything, because their voices do not survive in any form. We cannot even tell to what extent they were zoroastrians; the status of this religion in Iran was never absolute.
In any case, the characterisation of Greek rule you offer here is very far from the truth. Destruction caused by Alexander's army was mostly limited to the palaces at Persepolis and Pasargadai. Afterwards, for sheer lack of manpower, the region largely had to be ruled through its old Persian administrative structures and the elites that staffed them. No Greek at the time thought of Persians as savages (the Greek notion of the "barbarian" is quite different from its modern meaning, and simply indicates non-Greek foreigners). The Greeks never tried to impose their religion on anyone, and Greek migration to the region seems to have been mostly confined to a few new settlements. Fairly soon after Alexander's empire splintered into the Successor states, Iran stopped being ruled directly by the Seleukids, being instead divided up into a number of vassal kingdoms (one of which, Parthia, eventually emerged as the new dominant Persian power, which endured for 400 years).
The whole campaign against Persia was formally motivated by revenge, but probably also greed, as I've explained . This was enough to keep going at least until the entire empire was subjugated.
A question to this if I may: From what you've written, it sounds like conquest for conquest's sake. I can easily see this being true, but I wonder if we know anything at all about WHY he wanted to go on and keep on conquering instead of consolidating? The plunder he and his men would have gotten comes to my mind as well as the personal prestige this would have gotten him, but was that all there is?
We don't really know what motivated Alexander. All our sources date from centuries after his death and while they say a lot about why he did things, much of that is probably influenced by later speculation about the same question. Why did he just keep going?
No. Alexander commanded the siege himself, and was the first to reach its walls. He enslaved and crucified much of the city who didn’t seek refuge in the Temple if Melqart because the siege delayed his larger efforts.
Alexander was allegedly inspired by his hero Achilles, and sought to match or outdo him in all things. Achilles, as it happens, was more of a fighter than a governor, and Alexander followed suit.
Alexander grew up in an elite culture characterised by extreme competition, especially in the specific arenas of battlefield prowess and benevolent generosity. To be the greatest in the first of these things required battles; to be the greatest in the second required spoils. Alexander's extravagance in both aspects of elite culture required him to keep on conquering rather than devote himself to peace. We may even go so far as to say that peace was impossible as long as Alexander relied on constantly escalating rewards to his generals and soldiers to keep himself in power.
It's not unfair to assume that Alexander was aware of the fragility of his incredible achievement. He may have realised that he could not keep a tight hold on so much territory with a tiny, strained minority of Greek and Macedonian migrants. The solution was the well-known expedient of the permanent crisis: keep everyone in fear of the enemy and in awe of the leader, and they will have no time to think of a different world.
It is also possible (but we're really speculating here) that Alexander was just not interested in running an empire. Everything about his career suggests impulsiveness and impatience as well as a thirst for dramatic extremes. The details likely bored him, and his mind would stat searching for some other boundary to cross.
The Persian policy towards its subjects was very much one of carrot and stick. Those who submitted and stayed loyal could expect to be treated kindly and even rewarded with exemptions from tribute and access to power. Those who resisted conquest or revolted against the Great King were destroyed. Herodotos speaks of the sack and destruction of the Greek cities of Miletos and Eretria as punishment for their role in the Ionian Revolt (499-494 BC). Those who survived the massacre were deported to distant corners of the empire, Assyrian style.
On the other hand, this kind of retribution was usually pretty targeted. It would make no sense to lay waste to entire regions, since their primary value was in the tribute they could pay. When the Persians regained control of the Greek states of Asia Minor after the King's Peace in 386 BC, they exacted no vengeance on anyone (as far as we know), and simply resumed claiming tribute.
Also, while the Athenians were notorious for imposing much heavier tribute on rebel states after a rebellion was crushed, the Persians actually don't seem to have done this. After the end of the Ionian Revolt, the Persians reassessed the tribute on the chastised rebels, but decided to leave it more or less the same. Punishment was likely to come in the form of sudden and extreme violence rather than a heavier yoke.