If you can, then go to the new complex. What you want to be doing right now is preparing a defense for when the LL is going to sue you. You might alternatively want to take an aggressive stance and sue your LL in small claims court for your security deposit since your accommodations are uninhabitable since it doesn't look like your LL is willing to negotiate. Either way, it looks like this will end up in front of a court and you'll have to prepare a defense as to why you broke your lease earlier than you should've. You should be arguing based on Va. Stat. Ann. ยง 55.1-1241 (2020) C.2, specifically that you're experiencing a serious threat to your health. The rest of my comment is about preparing your defense.
Call your local health department and request an inspection. If they're willing to get your home inspected then make sure that you get a copy of whatever report they make or otherwise receive/request something in writing that will collaborate that your apartment is uninhabitable.
Take photos of the mold and leak and preserve that evidence outside of your apartment, in multiple formats preferably, like uploading it online and keeping physical copies with a friend.
If you have anything that proves that you're specifically allergic to mold then keep that around as well, if you don't, make sure to visit a doctor so that they can give you something in writing that supports your claims of an allergy.
This is all so you can prove in court that you've been constructively evicted because the rented accommodation is uninhabitable. Due to the short timeframe that you've given your LL to resolve the issues however and the fact that you've already signed a new lease, this made this whole affair more complicated.
How did you inform your LL of these issues? Make sure you've got something that you can show in front of a court, like texts, emails, or certified letters. If you don't have any sort of evidence, then send your LL a certified letter of the problems.
If you've given your LL proper notice of the problem per your lease, then file a tenant's assertion in the Henrico General District Court and start paying your rent to the court. That will get her attention.
Then you've got more options available to you. Particularly: Withholding rent, rent reductions and potentially be able to get the LL to pay for temporary accommodation like a hotel. If you wish to pursue the last option I'd highly recommend a lawyer for it, if you can't afford one you might be able to receive legal aid or a lawyer might take you on pro-bono. In general, a consultation with a lawyer is always better than the advice of an internet stranger, so even if you can't afford to have a lawyer represent you, you might be able to afford a lawyer educating you, especially since health and safety issues are county-specific.