2) You do have that right, but that doesn't mean they can't ask you to ack quickly and sign before you actually seek counsel.
3) You likely would become ineligible for unemployment, at this time you are laid off, but have the potential to return to the company. You are not, as a matter of law, generally entitled to any severance benefit. Its possible there might be some claim under either the federal or state WARN Act, BUT given the way COVID came in and created issues there are likely exceptions to the law. As such, if you want this severance then you have to agree that you are voluntarily leaving, if you don't you don't get the severance and are involuntarily terminated. So you have to decide if accepting this severance, which may cut off unemployment eligibility, is worth that potential loss. Speaking with an attorney and/or a financial planner is probably a good idea on this point.
Thank you for the thorough response. I am expecting that if I do accept the severance package, then I will be ineligible for benefits due to that one clause. That employer has already been wrong on something in regards to unemployment during the beginning of the Pandemic. I wouldn't count on their word for anything regarding unemployment regardless of whether their belief is honest or not. At the end of the day, it wouldn't matter in a legal setting, and besides that, it wasn't my old boss or the HR rep who wrote and understands that document.
Right now, I'm not signing unless I have a compelling evidence that I would be eligible for unemployment. While the severance money would be nice, it wasn't all that much in the bigger picture, and the risk is nowhere near the reward. I would not want to put myself in a position where I'm unsupported. If I had started another job before the 45 days were through, well then I would sign.
I think you're right about the attorney. That's not a bad idea. I'll see what the attorney says, and maybe what the company would say after. Thank you for the input.