Would you please clarify this (especially the first sentence) for me? I'm not an expert on 14th century social organization, but I know enough to say that people were certainly buying and selling property outright in the 14th century, though I can't speak to how common it was. I just started a book on an English mercenary of the period, and the first chapter traces his family's fortunes through records of their land acquisitions. They and their relatives - these families seem to have formed alliances with others of their class by marriage - occupied a space between the aristocracy proper and the peasantry, owning multiple parcels of land and collecting rents from them.
First of all, it's important to note that, because most people were illiterate in this distant period, we have relatively little information on ordinary soldiers. As such, a lot of what historians 'know' is what they've worked out, not what a written source has explicitly told them. Nearly all English soldiers that fought in the Hundred Years War were volunteers. They were raised through a system of indenture, where a king or prominent nobleman provided a lesser aristocrat or captain with much of the funds necessary to recruit and maintain troops. Nevertheless, soldiers usually provided their own equipment. All soldiers (even dukes) received a regular wage, though this depended on rank and equipment. Noblemen and knights got paid the most, then men-at-arms, then mounted archers, then foot archers. Even the foot archer's wage, however, was quite good for the time. The greater enticement of war though was often the booty that might be taken on campaign. Looting was carefully regulated, in that the general and the captain each took a set share of what the common soldier looted.
Because the soldiers were English, we wouldn't describe them as mercenaries, though they weren't levies either. They were sort of semi-professional soldiers. The English did have permanent garrisons in France (especially in the Lancastrian phase), but most soldiers would have served in a particular campaign, before returning to civilian life. They might 'sign on' again in another campaign, so as the wars went on there would have been plenty of experienced soldiers.
Indeed they were. I should probably have put more emphasis on the word 'theoretically'. From the reign of William the Conqueror, there was a principle that only the king actually owned land in England. The powerful noblemen who held land directly from the king were 'tenants in chief'. This whole principle was sort of falling apart by the 14th century, partly because paying free tenants were more profitable than serfs, who lords had certain responsibilities to. This transition from service and responsibility to monetary payment also affected the aristocracy. Where knights had once served lords as soldiers in exchange for land, they now bought the land and got paid for being soldiers. This replacement of service with cash is often termed 'bastard feudalism'. As you say, in the 14th century there was an emerging class of landowners who were not 'gentlemen'. One term often used for these people was 'franklin' (e.g. the Franklin in the Canterbury Tales). This class was, however, pretty small compared to the population of free tenants who provided most of the soldiers.
In medieval England everyone, even the upper nobility, was theoretically a tenant of someone else. Most people were peasants, and most peasants were, by the mid-fourteenth century, free tenants of some sort, paying rents to the landowner. There were some serfs still but the labour obligations they owed to their lords made it more difficult for them to go to war. The men who went to war would often have been those who were surplus to agricultural labour requirements; second sons and the like. As for whether they'd have been married or unmarried is a very interesting question. Ordinary people tended to marry in their late teens or early twenties, but usually didn't wed until they had the wealth to set up their own household, in contrast to Southern Europe, where people usually married earlier and stayed with their parents. As such, some men would have gone to war to accumulate the wealth needed to set up their own household and marry. As for whether the 'average' soldier was the son of a soldier, that's unclear. Obviously this would have become more common as the wars went on. Sons of soldiers would have seen the wealth that soldiering could bring. More practically, old soldiers could have passed their weapons and armour down to their sons.