the combat arms, was nevertheless the main basis of assignment. Reception centers, in filling requisitions...for personnel, supplied specialists in the proportions called for in the Requirement and Replacement Rates. For further guidance of the reception centers Army Regulations 615-26, dated 15 September 1942, offered suggestions for assignment. For boilermakers, bricklayers, riveters, and steelworkers, the suggested assignment was the Corps of Engineers. For longshoremen it was the Quartermaster Corps. Detectives were thought to be peculiarly suitable for the Provost Marshal General's Office, and "vice-squad patrolmen" for the Military Police. Miners might fit into either the Engineers or the Infantry. Suited for the Infantry primarily, according to these suggestions, were a few "specialists" of infrequent occurrence in the civilian population, such as parachute jumpers and mountaineers. Bookkeepers, file clerks, piano tuners, shipping clerks, and teachers were recommended "for any arm or service." White-collar workers were not needed by the Army in proportion to their frequency in civilian society. They stood, therefore, a somewhat better chance of being assigned to the Infantry than did boilermakers or longshoremen.
On , the National Defense Act of 1916 was amended to consider men serving under the Selective Training and Service Act members of the Army of the United States. The period of service of all men then in the Army of the United States or in it in the future was extended for the duration of the war plus 6 months, and the Selective Training and Service Act was amended to remove all references to territorial restrictions on the use of draftees. , the ages for registration under the Act were increased from 18-65 and the ages for liability for military service were increased from 20-44. On , the age for liability for military service was dropped from 20 to 18. The lottery system was discarded after men from the ages of 18-20 were required to register in June 1942, replaced by selection via order number (itself based upon date of birth) at the local board level.
On 5 December 1942, President Roosevelt’s terminated voluntary enlistment into the U.S. armed forces for men 18-37 for the duration of the war, which also implicitly brought the Navy under the umbrella of Selective Service. The military simultaneously declared that men over the age of 37 were more necessary in civilian life than in the military, and refused their induction; provisions were later provided for many of these men for their transfer to reserve components or release.
Before February 1943, all draftees went to the Army, and after that a majority did, and so that’s where I will focus.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the on 16 September 1940. Men from the ages of 21-35 registered and were to be liable for selection via a random lottery, to serve 1 year of active service and then 10 years in a reserve component. Not more than 900,000 draftees were to be in service at any one time (the funds allocated by Congress could only support 800,000), and they were not to serve outside the Western Hemisphere except in U.S. possessions. The Navy successfully exempted itself from the act by claiming that its ships could not maintain combat effectiveness through a constant cycling of one-year draftees. On , men 28 and older were deferred from training and service (this provision ended after the war began, and those men released from service were called back). On , the period of active service, as a part of a blanket national security measure, was extended from 12 to 30 months.
From November 1940 to August 1941, the commanding general of each corps area received a portion of the quota determined from the office of the Secretary of War. The quota was divided up as quotas for states, and transmitted to their governors, who informed Selective Service officials of the number of men needed; calls for men for the Army were then given to each local board. From September 1941, requisitions were made from the office of the Secretary of War onto Selective Service. The national Director of Selective Service, after determining a quota, divided it up and allocated a portion to each state, and the state Directors then issued calls on each of their local boards to select and order men to report for induction.
To not cause an overly severe disruption of civilian life in given states by withdrawing too many men at once, the division of the quota (whatever its size was) among the states was determined so that the ratio of the number of men from each state available for military service and the number of men from the United States available for military service equaled the ratio of the number of men from each state in the military service of the United States and the total number of men in the military service of the United States.
Initially, men were inducted immediately after they were selected, but this process did not prove ideal due to the relative strictness of Selective Service versus Army examiners; men could be rejected at some arbitrary stage, only to have concluded their affairs. By the end of 1941, 41 states were experimenting with a procedure whereby men, after receiving preinduction examinations at Army induction stations, would be returned to their homes as civilians to await actual induction some time later if found acceptable, usually anywhere from 15 to 60 days. After Pearl Harbor, this process was changed. On 15 February 1942, the Army announced that men would again be inducted immediately, but would be transferred to the Enlisted Reserve Corps for 7 days to conclude their affairs before reporting to a reception center. This furlough was extended to 21 days by September 1943. With the signing of on 11 December 1943, a process similar to that which had been tried immediately before the war came into effect. Men were to receive a preinduction examination and be presented with a certificate of fitness or lack thereof at least 21 days before their actual induction, which would give them time to conclude their affairs at home before reporting for military service.
From the signing of Executive Order 9279 until 1 February 1943, when the Navy developed its permanent manpower acquisition plan and presented it to Selective Service, an interim plan of regulated volunteering coordinated through local boards was developed to assign men to this service:
Beginning in February 1943, a system with two separate quotas was developed, one for the Army and one for the Navy. Since the Navy had not maintained induction stations, Army installations were used in a joint procedure. The quotas for each service became one when allocated to the states and then the local boards, which translated into a numerical ratio in which inductees were to be assigned to the Army or the Navy. To ensure an equitable distribution of high-quality manpower between services, men were placed into groups based upon age, education, occupational skill, and physical and mental qualifications, and assigned at the time of induction based upon the groups and the ratio of the day. Both volunteers for induction and draftees were permitted to express their preference of service in either the Army or the Navy (the "Navy" call was further divided into "Navy," "Marine Corps," and "Coast Guard"), with volunteers for induction being given priority. No assurance of assignment was given; if the call for their chosen branch had already been filled or if some other situation came to pass, they were assigned to the branch for which they were best qualified or in which there was the greatest need for them.
With the advent of the preinduction physical examination in January 1944, men ordered to report for their examinations and found acceptable were permitted to express their preference of service in either the Army or the Navy, creating two manpower pools. The men then used to fill each local board's call for each service would come from their respective pools of qualified registrants. A situation soon resulted where the size of the pools was becoming unbalanced in relation to the requirements of each service, and it was feared that at some point in the future one or both monthly calls would not end up being filled. Beginning on 1 July 1944, the quota reverted back to a single, ratio-based quota to avert this problem. After their preinduction physical examinations, men were declared as either acceptable or unacceptable for general or limited military service rather than acceptable specifically to the Army or Navy, and were again assigned to a given service at the time of induction based on the group system and the ratio of the day. Only volunteers for induction continued to have permission to choose their branch of service to the extent practicable.
Palmer, Robert R. The Army Ground Forces: Procurement of Enlisted Personnel for the AGF: The Problem of Quality, Study No. 5. Washinon, D.C.: Historical Section, Army Ground Forces, 1946.
Brown, John S. Draftee Division: The 88th Infantry Division in World War II. Lexinon: University Press of Kentucky, 1986.
Dargusch, Carlton S., Louis H. Renfrow, John D. Langston, Benjamin R. Howell, Robert E. Coons, Ernest B. Erickson, Joseph D. Noell, Jr., et al. Problems of Selective Service: Special Monograph No. 16, Volume I. Washinon, D.C.: United States Government Printing Office, 1952.
Furer, Julius A. Administration of the Navy Department in World War II. Washinon, D.C.: United States Government Printing Office, 1959.
Hershey, Lewis B. Selective Service as the Tide of War Turns: The 3rd Report of the Director of Selective Service 1943-1944. Washinon, D.C.: United States Government Printing Office, 1945.
Keast, William R. The Army Ground Forces: The Provision of Enlisted Replacements, Study No. 7. Washinon, D.C.: Historical Section, Army Ground Forces, 1946.
Voluntary enlistment is where you sign up with the army, navy, etc. directly and that's where you go. This was prohibited.