So there was, of course, violence. Unsurprisingly, these groups were banned and resistance generally fought with arrests, torture, assassinations/murders, repression and, on occasion, massacre.
But when the Portuguese colonial empire collapsed in 1974-5, the South African government found for the first time that it had two left wing, anti-colonial and black-led governments on its doorstep (Mozambique and Angola - the latter neighbouring South West Africa), which were used as bases by the black resistance movements, with those governments’ support. A proxy war was fought in Angola and SW Africa, which pitted the South African government against Angola’s MPLA, its allies in what is now Namibia (SWAPO), Cuban forces sent by Castro, and black South African resistance fighters. This war did not go well for the South African government, which eventually withdrew and by 1990 Namibia was given independence as well.
I think one well known recent example (just within the bounds of this sub’s rules), about which a lot has been discussed and written, and even already mythologised, is late Apartheid South Africa.
A little bit of basic background: in 1910 South Africa unified from British colonies and ‘Boer’ (or rather Afrikaans, or essentially Dutch South African) republics founded in the interior, in the wake of the 1899-1902 (‘Second’) Boer War, where the British Empire took over the latter. From the start (and in its predecessor polities) there was racial discrimination against the black majority and other groups (largely self-described ‘Coloured’ people and Indians), with restrictions on voting, work, living conditions etc. But in 1948 an Afrikaner nationalist government took power and began to institute a series of laws that formalised race and segregation in every avenue of life as the fundamental system by which the country operated, eventually consigning black people to so-called tribal ‘homelands’ or derisively named ‘Bantustans’, essentially reservations taking up 15% of the country, with the pretence that they were independent nation states, declaring all black people to be citizens of these states and with the goal of removing them from the remaining 85% of the country to these small areas.
There were also proxy wars of sorts: when South Africa’s neighbours were either very small or even surrounded (Swaziland, Botswana, Lesotho), or white-led (two Portuguese colonies, now Angola and Mozambique, and white-led Rhodesia, now Zimbabwe). What is now Namibia was in effect a South African colony or even province - a League of Nations ‘mandate’ they had inherited at the end of WW1 as the British Empire’s ‘custodian’ over the former German colony.
Black people did not take this lying down, and several movements formed or resolved to fight these oppressive measures. The most famous was the African National Congress, which was already in existence from 1912, and eventually led by Nelson Mandela, who was arrested for sabotage and imprisoned for 27 years. Others included the Pan Africanist Congress and Steve Biko’s Black Consciousness Movement. There were also liberal and left-wing movements among the white population, and other groups. The first two had armed or military/paramilitary wings: Nelson Mandela’s uMkhonto we Sizwe (MK) and the PAC’s Azanian People’s Liberation Army (APLA - named after the Ancient Greek references to a land called ‘Azania’, taken to be in sub-Saharan Africa). There was conflict: these and others conducted resistance campaigns that involved bombings, targeted shootings, mass protests, interaction with international organisations mostly successfully pushing for sanctions against South Africa, and proxy conflicts.
Desmond Tutu, the black Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town, whose appointment in the 1980s had caused a stir, was another famous proponent of peaceful transition, to the point that he chaired a Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which held forums where people who had committed violence during the Apartheid era - on whichever side - could come forward with immunity and confess and discuss their crimes with the victims or their families. Though based on a spirit of forgiveness and seen by many as helping to move the country forward, it has not been without criticism, as many people felt that those who committed atrocities got off lightly simply by tying their atrocities to politics, even repressive politics. It has, however, been imitated elsewhere, including in Liberia. There is literature discussing the effects this had or did not have on the peaceful transition, which I will try to find.
In many ways this is similar to another process that took place at around the same time: the dissolution of the Soviet Union. In both cases the leader who began to acquiesce to reforms had actually had a reputation as a loyal ideologue while climbing the ranks but softened their position for pragmatic reasons once in power; there were hard-liners in the government who refused to cooperate (though there was no South African equivalent of the 1991 coup attempt there); and the first leader who founded the more democratic government after had a reputation for a ‘courageous stand’ and opposition during at least the last years of the regime, but also called for peaceful transition (though of course in Yeltsin’s case, he had been a member of the government not too long before this role); and in both cases some sort of union with at least one other state was dissolved as a consequence. One bizarre difference is that despite Yeltsin’s political origins as a communist, he banned the Communist party once in power. On the other hand, Mandela not only did not ban the Nationalist Party as they had banned his organisation, he formed a Government of National Unity with them, and De Klerk became the deputy Vice President, nominally third in command. (This took an even more bizarre twist when, after a transition from a white nationalist party to having a largely ‘Coloured’ base, and various political dealings, the National Party, once the party of Apartheid, was officially absorbed by the ANC, the once black nationalist party that they had banned as a terrorist organisation. But this goes beyond the period of concern.).
This is a massive topic so I could not go into as much depth as it deserves. I will try to add more details and sources when I get time.
Fascinating Thank you for this in depth answer. It actually required the leader to have the wherewithal to see that stepping down was the best thing for the country. Incredible.