Any Brazilians wanna weigh in on him? During the elections people were saying he's just as shitty as the last guy. But I've heard this and one other thing today that makes him sound ok. Has he changed or something else happened?
Rousseff's first term wasn't as great as Lula's and her second term became a shit show. The 2014 world cup and Rio 2016 didn't make people happy for several reasons, but mainly because of the ever increasing stack of corruption scandals.
The workers party had been in power for 14 years, and, differently from Lula, Dilma wasn't an appeaser with the legislative bodies. The workers party had been very open for corruption investigations throughout the 14 years, and by 2015 big names were being mentioned in corruption scandals. So, in a political maneuver, the legislative used a financial inconsistency to impeach Dilma and place her very aligned to the legislative bodies vp as president.
Meanwhile, an investigation is going on about corruption and bribe taking called operação lava-jato - or operation car wash - that arrested several politicians. Eventually they get to Lula. It's 2018 and Lula is leading the polls for the elections, however, he gets arrested for getting a bribe in the form of a triplex and a country house.
Lula run Brazil for 8 years from 2003 to 2010. He left the presidency with some 85% approval. This approval allowed him to bolster his party's next candidate - Dilma Rousseff - to get elected as president.
Antipetismo is currently very strong in Brazil and sells Lula as a very big criminal who is trying to make Brazil a new Cuba. Unfounded or not. This makes a lot of Brazilians say that Lula is a crook. Unfounded or not.
As time passes by, things get strange. Turns out the judge that put Lula in jail is close friends with the prosecutor that was accusing Lula. Worse yet, they were working together to remove Lula from the elections.
Lula is released and the sentence nulled. All the evidences are also nulled, because they were acquired through illegal means. The justice system eventually archives the case because of lack of evidences.
You don't have to explain why something doesn't makes sense before explaining why it does. I'd be proving a negative, like arguing against someone saying God exists.
This is an abridgement of everything. But it hides away an important factor. With the stack of corruption cases being investigated in the workers party's government, a feeling of distrust towards the party emerged and became critical on Brazilian politics - it being the main agenda of ex-president Bolsonaro. This feeling became an ideology itself called antipetismo.
While the first two terms he did an okay job, the problem is not himself, but rather people at his side. His party, PT (Worker's Party), has many politicians accused of corruption. Lula himself has been jailed and release. To my knowledge, both his conviction and eventual release were on technicalities, so I see it as one political maneuvering after another.
TLDR: politics are gonna politics. Some people will praise Lula as a damn good politician. Some are honna bash him at every corner. Both have good arguments to do so.
Regardless, there is still the mantra of "Party First". His current Minister of Economy (not sure if I named it right), Fernando Hadad, was a former PT presidential candidate who lost to Bolsonaro. Many would argue Hadad is not a good pick, so he may have gotten the ministry just for the name, instead of qualities. On the other hand, the Minister of Education, Camilo Santana, imho was an excellent pick. Santana has been the governor of my state during the Covid years and he did a fine job. My state is known for its strong schooling results, when compared to the rest of the country.