If you know their adoptive parents you can ask their permission. If your don't, you can ask the CPS office in that area to pass a letter to the adoptive parents to ask for permission.
Unfortunately I do not know their adoptive parents. I fear it is a closed adoption or the type where little if any information is given to the birth family.
I’d recommend calling some family law attorneys near you and asking if any do pro bono work or could recommend some reduced fee legal aid (I’m assuming, as a 19 yo, you probably don’t have a lot of money). An attorney could help you navigate the system or point you in the right direction of agencies that can help. Also, if you know the city in TN where this occurred, you could try calling the court and seeing if you could get any info that way. What about your mom or other family members? It sounds like you’re going to need to play detective and gather as much info as possible. If you know their birthdays and full names, that will help. Hopefully an attorney or someone with more knowledge of the social service system will reply. It might help if you can edit your question with the name of the city in TN.
You can register for free and post information about the people you’re looking for, or search for adoptees by birthdate, etc. It also says they have a Facebook group. Maybe you can make some headway there.
Mother passed away and me and my grandma are the only people able to do much. Grandma has been able to give information. I do know their full names and birthday. I also have pictures with me and them when they were really young. I did try calling the DCS for the county I believe it happened in and the person said they Couldn't give out any information until they were 18. However I asked someone from the foster care company I believe they were in and they suggested I give the DCS person my information instead for them to hopefully give to the adoptive parents. I can see about trying to find an attorney to ask these questions to, thanks.