This is actually an amazing question! Although it relates to subjects that are perhaps less light-hearted than Sir Mix-a-lot's song. So I'll just put a little CW here, then carry on with my answer. (This is my first post here, but it relates to my area of studies , ie. the intersection of race and fashion, so I'll jump right in).
As for the 1990s, it is important to remember that this was the decade of the notorious "heroin chic" look, which meant extremely skinny, waifish models. Definitely the polar opposite of what we see today. I would say that theere was a divide among racial lines in the sense that high fashion was (and still is, although not nearly as much) a very white and upper-class environment. Today, fashion coopted a lot of black culture (streetwear, black hairstyles, plumpier figures), although not always acknowledging its roots, which explains the frequent controversies we saw in recent years.
Criticism of the features of black bodies is something that goes back all the way to the XIXth century colonial empires, where pseudoscientist ideologies tried to justify colonialism. The prominence of certain body parts (in the case of women, the buttocks), were used as arguments to frame black women as extremely sexual and profligate. Some women were even exhibited in human zoos or during scientific demonstrations, the most famous of which is probably Sarah Baartman, who was dubbed the "Hottentot Venus" during her lifetime. This framing of black women during the XIXth lead to a popular perception of black women as overly sexual, promiscuous, etc. In other words, white colonialist fantasies were projected onto them. (For more on this topic, see Robin Mitchell's Book Vénus noire: Black Women and Colonialism in Nineteenth Century France).
This dynamic is observable in the monologue, with the valley girl establishing clear links between blackness, prostitution and "gross sexuality". There are residues of the colonial period that still permeates today in the form of stereotypes.
These conceptions remained deeply ingrained in western culture. Patricia Hill Collins dedicates the entirety of the sixth chapter of her classic book Black Feminist Thought: Knowledge, Consciousness and the Politics of Empowerment to politics of black sexual womanhood in the United States. In this chapter, she talks about all the ways in which this colonial objectification of black women's body manifests itself in contemporary american society. The so-called hypersexuality of black folks was again used as a justification for the segregation system in the US. While an ideal of purity and virginity was projected as the ideal for white womanhood, black women served as the counterpart of this model and were strongly subjected to objectification. This was further strenhened by difficult economic context that brought some black women to prostitution.
Robin Mitchell, Vénus Noire: Black Women and Colonial Fantasies in Nineteenth-Century France, 2020. Athens: University of Georgia Press, 208pp.
Sabrina Strings, Fearing the Black Body: The Racial Origins of Fat Phobia, 2019. New York: NYU Press, 304 pp.
CW stands for Content Warning. I prefer to issue this before discussing sensible issues that can be extremely modern for shocking audience. I wouldn't want someone to expect a funny post about Sir Mix-A-Lot and earning up finding about XIXth century human zoos.
I don't want to make Sir Mix-A-Lot seem like a militant here, he's probably just a guy who love a nice round butt (who doesn't?) but there is certainly something daring and countercultural about his song, that seeks to empower women whose body has been historically invalidated and presented as something shameful. This is kind of the same reason why some people applaud WAP today as feminist and liberating, where others might see it as objectifying. I digress here, as I am more specialized in the colonial period than I am in the 1990s, but I hope this brought the answer you were looking for.
For the fashion industry in the 1990s, I like Vogue's podcast Fashion: The 1990s which is very well produced, although not very critical. A good complement would therefore be Dressed: The History of Fashion by fashion historians April Calahan and Cassidy Zachary.
Also, out of curiosity, what does this imply for runway models? I have admittedly next to no interaction with high fashion, but from what little I know, "extremely skinny, waifish models" seems to describe fashion shows. Is this a holdover from the 90s? If so, why there and not in magazines and other media?
To answer the other part of your question, there is a received idea in fashion that clothes drape better on tall, skinny bodies. This has been the go-to-answer as to why designers tend to hire models with such body shapes. The 90s stand out as the most extreme form of this trend, because it was the period associated with the rise to stardom of supermodels, and what usually comes with it (substance abuse and poor life habits, hence the nickname "heroin chic"). Although most models today are skinnier than the average population, they're rarely as skeletal as they were during the height of this period. We also see a trend towards a diversification of body types, although if I'm not mistaken that is more prevalent in american than in european or asian fashion.
I think that fashion magazines are aimed at a larger public, and therefore are quicker to adopt change in mentality and promote body diversity, while fashion shows are more of an "elite" event, and tends to be more conservative in this regard. But this is just my hypothesis, so don't quote me in a paper on that.
Right, makes sense. I'd assumed it was something like that, just wanted to check. Too late, though, this Reddit comment has been referenced in five journal articles and a PhD thesis.
Haha someone else actually asked the same question. It's a bad habit I kept from my time in french-speaking academia. It is the norm to use roman numerals for centuries there.
I am just wondering why you use Roman numerals for centuries? It seems out of place. Is there some grammar rule I’m totally unaware of? Because I will start doing that if there’s a reason for it.
Thanks so much for this post, fascinating and informative. I'm very glad I used the remind-me bot 2 days ago, I would not have wanted to miss your reply.