Since that answer mostly addresses the Alexander the Great part of the equation, I'll add some input on the Chinggis Khan side of the equation.
In contemporary terms, as I note in an answer I wrote about Genghis Khan's alleged death count part of what happens is that trends over more than two centuries of Mongol dynasties gets collapsed into "Mongol conquests", which then gets further collapsed into "what Chinggis Khan did".
This seems important because while Chinggis and his armies eventually traversed large stretches of Asia, really what we're talking about in terms of his own campaigns were: 1) the campaigns that led to him more or less unifying the tribes in present-day Mongolia, 2) his wars in northern China, mostly against the Jin Dynasty, and 3) his wars in Central Asia, particularly against the Khwarezmians. This latter was the most bloody and destructive part of his campaigns, especially as noted by Persian authors.
But what this does not include, and I think this gets ellided in popular understandings of the history are things like the sack of Kiev or the sack of Baghdad, or the conquest of the Southern Song, which all happened years after his death, sometimes many decades later.
Further, it's worth noting that Chinggis Khan (and the Mongols more generally) have not been universally viewed negatively. The obvious example would be modern day Mongolia itself, which views him as a national hero. However, even across much of Central Asia in the modern era establishing descent from Chinggis Khan (even if this relationship was very tenuous) was an important feature of ruling elites. Chinese history has tended to have a variety of mixed responses, but it's worth noting that Chinggis' legacy has not been viewed as wholly negative - it's worth mentioning that much of what we know about him comes from The Secret History of the Mongols, which was originally written in Mongol during the Yuan Dynasty, and later translated into Chinese. A big part of the issue with the Mongols in Chinese (and Persian) history is that above all they were a foreign dynasty.
When we talk about how "we" view Chinggis Khan and his descendants, generally what we tend to mean is what European historians have thought of him. Here again, the record is actually somewhat mixed. While Russian historians have a tradition of focusing on the "Tatar Yoke" to explain Russia's supposed backwardness to the rest of Europe (although here again I should note that they are talking about a series of dynasties far beyond Chinggis Khan and the Mongols, and usually focus on the Golden Horde and its descendants). Here again is a similar dynamic how the more negative aspects of Mongol rule are received in Chinese and Persian histories.
In contrast, Medieval European writers, especially in Western Christendom, tended to view the Mongols much more positively, as they dispatched emissaries to Mongol courts and saw them as potential counterweights to Muslim opponents in the Middle East (it's worth noting that there were more than a few Christians involved in the sack of Baghdad, and something of a tradition of certain wives in the Mongol courts being Nestorian Christians).
It seems like much of the turn against the Mongols, and against Chinggis Khan in particular, comes from writers who were part of the 18th century French Enlightenment. A lot of this (at least in Jack Weatherford's telling) comes from Voltaire in particular, namely his 1753 play The Orphan of China, which is based on a Chinese play The Orphan of Zhao. Voltaire used the play as a veiled critique of French absolutism, and definitely worked up elements of reason versus barbarism and cruelty exemplified by the Mongol ruler.
I won't say that it's 100% Voltaire's fault, but there definitely was a trend from his time onwards among Western writers that Chinggis Khan and the Mongols more generally stood for the very worst aspects of "Oriental despotism" and for an animalistic barbarism. This further hardened with 19th century scientific racism, perhaps most notoriously with Doctor Langdon Down describing the syndrome named after him as a "reversion" to the "Mongoloid race", with "Mongoloid" becoming a descriptor for persons with Down's Syndrome. There came a point where one could almost be forgiven for thinking that Chinggis Khan was barely a modern human at all: just check out his portrayal in Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure to see how deeply this idea has become ingrained in Western thought.
Which is to say that it was less about criticizing Chinggis Khan or his descendants for specific events and more for an Othered generalization of Asia. In this context it's explainable that writers would focus far less on, say, Chinggis Khan's sack of Urgench or his ordered execution of the Western Xia Dynasty and more on a much more abstract rape and murder of untold millions. Chinggis Khan became very much a symbol for bigger themes: both for the Mongol dynasties and their wars and conquests, and much later for ideas of "Asia" among Western writers more generally.
ETA: Just as a 21st century post-script - one thing that you may often see are population genetics studies that claim to show x number of Asians are descended from Chinggis Khan. The numbers seem to vary by study: 1 in 200, 1 in 11, and the like. The implication here is again that Chinggis Khan was prolific in ways stretching the imagination: the idea here being that most charitably he had many wives and mistresses, less charitably that he was a mass rapist. Of course the weak point about all of these studies is that no one knows Chinggis Khan's genetic makeup, so again we are tracing something broadly connected with "Mongols" (and keep in mind that there have been migrations of peoples from present-day Mongolia across Eurasia for thousands of years), telescoping that into "the Mongol conquests", and telescoping that personally into Chinggis Khan.
To give an 'Asiatic's' perspective on this, people in Afghanistan tend to have a negative view of Chinggis and a positive outlook of Alexander (with the exception of the Hazara people who consider themselves descendents of the Mongols). How much of this is due to a legitimate difference in the carnage of the invasions, and how much of it is from romanticization (like the Alexander Romance, or the impression the Chinggis ended the Islamic Golden Age)?
I'd say it's a bit of both - Alexander's campaigning in the area of modern-day Afghanistan was relatively quick (and mostly involved founding cities), but that's not to say that his campaigns weren't devastating - just more devastating elsewhere (like the Siege of Tyre).
In contrast, the major cities in modern-day Afghanistan during Chinggis Khan's time were parts of the Khwarezmian Empire, and so they were in general as brutally sacked as the major cities that didn't immediately surrender elsewhere in that empire.
In contrast, the Persian historians who talk about Chinggis and his descendants' campaigns were much closer in time and place to the actual destruction of those campaigns, notably on the part of Juvayni who was from Khurasan and even served in the Ilkhanid court (some of the other notable writers of histories of the Mongol period were Rashid al-Din Hamadani and Wassaf al-Hadrat).