Where is this? But no, someone cannot cook your food without permission. The question is, what are you going to do over it? The only practical solution, if the landlord won't respect your meat after speaking to them about it, then tell them you are breaking the lease, without penalty, due to their violation of your privacy and property.
You also might want to look into when a landlord can enter your leased residence. I have not lived where you are, but the states I have lived in required written notice at least 48 hours prior to entry.
You need to FIRMLY state X,Y, Z that you are not comfortable with, and feel is in violation of your rights, and lease. Inform him that if they are broken/violated again, you we I’ll be moving. Do it all in writing.
So much wrong going on here. Start with; does it say in the lease agreement that you cannot have a mini fridge in your room? Why was landlord even in your room to know you had it. You should put a door knob that has a key so you can lock it while you are gone. And no, he can’t be peering into your car either, but technically not illegal, like entering your room.
I thought my landlord was bad, but this is next level. I'm not a lawyer, just a student who has had a fair share of terrible landlords, but I'll give you some advice because lawyers are uninterested in this. Is there anything in your lease about not having a mini fridge or your own appliances/furniture? Is there anything in the lease about him cooking your food? Is there anything in the lease avout you having to do work for him in the form of chores? If not then you give him a written warning. Include the fact that you have given him verbal warnings. Make two copies one for yourself and one for him. Date it and sign it. Also, try to get him to sign it as well. Additionaly, I would try to document the condition of the place and prove you have been a reasonable tenant (ie clean, respectful of written rules, and making payments on time). If he violates the written warning, after ample time to fix the issue (in this case I would say one day), then I would report him to a renters and tenants board (assuming that CA has that). Be sure to include the written warning when you submit a formal complaint. Finally, if things haven't changed, after say a week, inform him you intend to break the lease without penalty. Meanwhile you should be looking for a new place. I don't know the market in CA in general, but i talked to someone from LA recently and they said the market sucks there, so you may have to put up with his bad cooking for a little while. Anyway this is the way in Vancouver, Canada. Best of luck.