While you may not like the questions, they are allowed in regards to support animals. A service dog is trained to perform a task while a support animal is not, so that is where the medical questions come from.
Your source also mentions the fact that many people will buy a certification or "diagnosis" online in order to cheat the system and get a "support" animal when in reality they just wanted a pet. This is why your landlord is allowed by law to request documentation from a provider who has a history of treating you and not some random provider you saw once.
Your post made it seem like you didn't, as nothing you stated is out of line with the source document you provided, yet you seem to think some questions were inappropriate.
The main thing is I had already provided a description like a paragraph long and they wanted even more.
You're telling me something I already learned from you. I was just wondering if you had advice for what I should have done as it seems it will be informative for future use. If my primary care says no, then what?
Your problem is that you're trying to use a service when you are required by law to have a letter form a provider with a history of treating you. There is no getting around that.
You're getting pushback because your ESA letter is bullshit that isn't worth the paper it's printed on. No service that charges you $50 to write an ESA letter is legitimate.
A medical practitioner that you have an ongoing relationship with who is treating you for the issues related to your need for an ESA.
The whole purpose of having this come from a legitimate medical professional is that they might determine that they don't need to recommend you have an ESA. Not to give you a way to avoid fees for your pet.
Most "ESA services" are scams and do not meet the criteria for providing a bona fide ESA letter. You need to establish ongoing care for your medical needs, and you need to have the medical professionals who are actively involved in your ongoing care provide the letter.