Is there any indication this was done because of his age, as opposed to another reason, even an unknown reason? He's 60s, and he also has a gender and race and ethnicity. Any indication that it was any illegal reason (age, race, gender, ethnicity, etc.) as opposed to another reason, why do you think age is more likely than race or religion?
They haven’t given him an actual reason, they’ve only said that he’s underperforming with no examples. I should edit my post and clarify, I’m not only looking to make a case for ageism, it could just be wrongful demotion.
I see, thank you for your response. My question to that is, no employer is out right going to bring up age, so what is the point of having protections for older workers in the first place?
Any protection has to be proven. Otherwise it would be unfair to everyone. You couldn't fire or demote anyone because everyone has an age, a race, a gender, and many people have a religion, etc. You couldn't just say "people over 40 can't be demoted" any more than "people who are women can't be demoted, and people who are men can't be demoted." People can't be demoted because they are 50, or female, or male, or black or white, or Catholic or Jewish, or whatever.
If someone has a secret, illegal reason for firing someone, or demoting them, it's hard to prove, as it's hard to prove what's in someone's mind. Usually people don't keep secrets. But why would someone be demoted because of their age? It makes no sense. "I hate old people"? Sometimes you see patterns, a company "randomly" fires half its workforce, most of whom just happen to all be older and better-paid.
I’m not saying that he can’t be demoted because he’s over 40. But it seems very random considering every evaluation he has received has been positive and a couple years before he receives pension he is demoted without any probationary period. This is a county job btw not a small business.
Those would be the same thing basically. If he is discriminated against in any way due to his age, gender, religion, race, national origin, etc. then that would be legally prohibited. If he's demoted because someone doesn't like his performance, there is no paperwork or proof required, nor is there if someone is demoted or fired because someone just doesn't like them, or they like the "wrong" sports team, etc. That's all legal. If dumb and unfair.