With the current supreme court, current congress and the 2nd amendment, it is near impossible to make substantive change to gun laws in the US. Even states where gun laws are considered very restrictive are unable to actually ban guns like the AR15. California has been making "assault weapon" laws for 30 years but you can still legally buy an AR15 from a gun store in California. The California state legislature knows that an actual ban on semi-auto weapons would be struck down in the court system so they make laws against aesthetic features on guns like the pistol grip of an AR. These California legal guns are functionally the same but have a silly looking extra piece attached. Someone with a screwdriver could remove it in a minute if they felt inclined to break the law.
The AR15 thing is so dumb, there’s no reason to ban them it’s just panic by people who don’t know guns. MOST shootings are committed with handguns, most MASS shootings are committed with handguns as well. Banning them is a waste of political capital that could have been used for actual effective gun control reform.
To make real change would require a veto-proof 60 seats in the US senate and similar in the US House and 2 conservative Supreme Court justices to die or retire.
Things won't change until the conversation moves past "banning guns" or banning whatever types of guns people think are the problem. It's not because the call to action falls on deaf ears, everyone around the nation is heartbroken at these events everytime they happen, but people caught up on chasing the moral highground completely forget the nuances of sacrificing freedom for security. People, who want to promote responsible gun ownership as much as anyone else, have every reason to be skeptical of the government taking away the fundamental right to arm oneself for self defense. You don't get to take away other people's freedoms just because you think it creates a better world.
Edit: tell me how I’m wrong. Gun control is a contentious topic between the parties, why push for something that realistically will have a negligible impact on the violence in the country when you could use those resources for measures that are more effective.