Greetings If you are a first time visitor, welcome This thread is getting a lot of attention so we wanted to take a moment to share a few reminders. First, it's important to remember upvotes represent interest in the question itself, and . The mission of /r/AskHistorians is to provide users with in-depth and comprehensive responses, and our are intended to facilitate that purpose. We remove comments which don't follow them for reasons including unfounded speculation, shallowness, and of course, inaccuracy. Making comments asking about the removed comments simply compounds this issue. Please consider this as a warning - do not post answers that break our rules.
And while we always appreciate feedback, it is unfair to the OP to further derail this thread with META conversation, so if anyone has further questions or concerns, I ask that you direct them to , or a . Thank you!
We have in our wiki, which also has a . Any flaired user can edit it. Also, the mod-team here is drawn from our panel of historians (the flaired users), so many of us have been around here for a long time. If you have other META questions, though, we'd prefer that they come to modmail or a separate META thread.
We know that it can be frustrating to come in here from your frontpage or /r/all and see only provides a guide to a number of ways to do so, including the RemindMeBot- - or.
Finally, there is a lot to be said on this particular topic. While you're waiting for a more in-depth response, you might find from u/Georgy_K_Zhukov to a similar question about Lee interesting.
While we wait for an answer to this direct question, we can read the answers to some similar questions about Robert E. Lee that have popped up on this sub:
I love these retrospective threads that pop up on new popular questions, but if I can ask a meta question: What exactly is the system for tracking quality content in /r/askhistorians? There's an enormous amount of volume posted in this sub, and it's really amazing to me how popular posts always seem to have a list of old, semi-relevant, well-written answers at the ready. Does someone keep a list of these somewhere? If so, who does this and what are the criteria for answers that are saved for later reference?