I am sorry, but I don't quite understand why you believe your family to be in danger here. What harm or threat of safety exists by him living next door?
Approaching people isn't a threat of harm, nor is "making advances," though you don't describe that. If he touches one of them, then it could be anything from harassment to sexual assault depending on what he does, but I am trying to gently tell you that there is not an increased risk of recidivism here.
He's several times approached my mom and sister, always alone and made advances toward them. He's even followed my sister as she pulled in the garage and waited for her to get out of the vehicle so he could talk to her.
Going into the garage and waiting for her to get out of her car isn't unlawful. It is unlawful if your sister or someone says "please get off my property" and he refuses to leave, and if you guys tell him to stay off your property and he continues coming on it, there can be an issue of trespass. You call the police if he does either of those or any other actual crime. If it's something that you wouldn't mind a friendly person you do like doing, it probably isn't a crime.
There is no evidence here to suggest he's done anything wrong with regards to interaction with your family, other than being impolite about coming into the garage uninvited. That's not a crime. Feeding dogs isn't a crime, and even asking someone out or making crude comments in doing so isn't illegal. I know you want to protect your family, but you seem to be trying to protect them from an imaginary dragon here. I'm not saying he's a good person you should be friends with. I am saying that you're making an awful lot of huge leaps in assuming he will do anything, so your ideas of guns and attack dogs to protect everyone are, franky, fantasies about heroism and not fears of danger, and you shouldn't entertain them too much for a million reasons.
But here, you're assuming they will harm your family without articulating a single reason why you think they'll kidnap and rape your family or otherwise cause harm, and are assuming this person has some motive of making it so that he can prevent the dog from protecting them be ingratiating himself with the dog by giving it food, and is doing so as part of a larger plan he's put in motion here with the end result of kidnapping, raping, or murdering your family.