You should contact the agency for whom the certified payroll work is being performed. They will likely have a fraud or investigative department. As others have said IRS and Department of Labor should be on your call list.
You might want to consult with a labor lawyer if you feel you were wrongly terminated for reporting fraud.
You should immediately get a Check it for any loans, credit cards, etc., that you don’t recognize. If you do see loans or credit cards you didn’t take out yourself, you need to go to the police and report the identity theft. Then contact the 3 credit bureaus to let them know there are items on your credit report you didn’t take out yourself and let them know you have a police report for identity theft. Without the police report, the credit bureaus won’t remove the fraudulent debts and you’d be responsible for them.
If your credit report looks ok, contact each of the 3 credit bureaus and freeze your credit (each of the credit bureaus will give you a PIN - do not lose the PINs, you will need them when you want to temporarily lift the freeze if you need to open a credit card, get a loan, etc.). Freezing your credit prevents anyone from doing a credit check on you, so if someone does try to get a credit card or loan in your name, the financial institution won’t be able to do a credit check.
You can request an Identity Protection Pin from the IRS (it may be an automatic part of the identity theft process, but you can now request one for any reason). It is a six-digit number you use when you file your federal tax return (easy peasy). You can also create an account on IRS.gov and check your IRS transcripts, etc. The Social Security Administration processes W-2's, so you may want to see what they suggest you do if an incorrect W-2 goes in at the end of the year. Gather all you paystubs and records of when you worked if you can.
As others have said, contact the IRS. Fill out the identity theft form, and notify them of what your former employer is doing. You might also want to contact your state’s revenue department as well to see if there’s anything equivalent you need to do for state taxes.