After a great deal of work by a number of flaired users, I'm pleased to announce that the revamped is ready to be rolled out Still some holes that we'll be working behind the scenes to fill, but it has undergone a massive effort in revamping and updating to better provide a useful selection of literature on the topic for all aspects of the war A bit thanks to all the flairs who have helped, and especially /u/deverence who put in the gruntwork to get the updates up and live on the sub's Wiki!
So the mess over at , plus my own archival work over the past few months, has put me in a reflective mood over the current state of popular understandings of environmental history. It'd be great to have more featured themes and discussions around environmental history, not only specifics but also questions of methodology and historiography. I can't respond to that posted question because I don't do medieval history nor Europe, but the miscommunications and missteps in the thread are common ones I see in environmental history, most notably the idea that "history" and "science" have hard lines between them and only one can reveal the truth of what the earth looked like x number of years ago. Who else here is an environmental historian or a historical geographer (that's more my field) and what do you see as the most important challenges facing popular understandings of your work today?
Edit: I won't directly address a now-gone comment but a few more thoughts to answer my own question: as someone who works between natural sciences and the humanities, I find it frustrating the positivist assertions coming out of a lot of empirical science fields (including social sciences) that we can find out "the truth" about the past. However such researchers usually go into the project with a declensionist narrative of the environment (that the environment used to be "better" and is "worse" now) and look to verify that rather than being open to the ecological and narrative possibilities of change, variation, and diversity. Such assumptions and preconceived notions are not limited to the "science" side of the divide, but the positivist foundations of STEM in the university today definitely makes it so that it's very common.
2,406 Do Russians romanticise eastern expansion &40;Siberia&41; the same way America has westerns and books about frontier? Why/why not?
Please let me know if you have suggestions to make this roundup better for /r/askhistorians. I can search for posts based off keywords in the title, URL and flair. And I can also search for comments.
4,511 It's the mid-1950s and I'm a reasonably well-informed, newspaper- and news magazine-reading American. How obvious is it that the Guatemala and Iran coups d'état happened with heavy input from United Fruit and Anglo-Iranian Oil, respectively?
3,374 It is reported that Martha Washinon said hosting Thomas Jefferson and Mount Vernon was the second-most horrible day of her life, after burying her husband. Do we know what he did during that visit to garner that kind of response.
2,262 Arthur C. Clarke said that the US Space Program's Promise was lost in the Rice Paddies of Vietnam. Looking at things now, was he right?
If you would like this roundup sent to your reddit inbox every day send me a message with the subject . Or if you only want a weekly roundup, use the subject.
1,516 What are some examples of questions one would see on a Civil Service Exam during the Ming Dynasty, and how would you study for such an exam?
4,081 Grover Cleveland was acting president and 49 years old when he married his 21-year-old wife, who he also watched over before their marriage after her father died. Was this not objectively considered gross or weird at the time?