Anytime someone sends me a TikTok I only watch it on a private browser tab seeing as the app wants full unblocked access to basically your entire device….
I’m not trying to distract from TikTok, but Google and Meta’s EULAs need to be torn to shreds and legislated into oblivion as well.
We have sold the very concept of privacy for pennys to corporations who have effectively zero democratic processes or safeguards.
If you told someone in 1999 the ways we are tracked in 2022, they’d refuse to accept we allowed this to happen.
I'd love it if privacy agreements were 2-way. I have to share my personal info with a company? Company has to share its info with me.
Watch the documentary on Netflix called "social dilemma" to see what I mean about point number three.
I definitely don't disagree that it's very likely a US-based tech talk replacement would be the net effect of a total US ban on TikTok.
Realistically I really doubt Congress is going to be able to get the complete formula correct. I do think that, at face value, TikTok is deplorable and destroys the integrity of our society especially for kids. Adding to that that it can be weaponized by the CCP, I think banning it is in that positive for the short term.
2) There's an ongoing debate about how the CCP can and does access personal data about US citizens that use TikTok, and how they can weaponize it against our country and our citizens.
1) It's been demonstrated that the content delivery system to US citizens is vastly different and unproductive to society when compared to the content that's algorithmically distributed to Chinese citizens. Chinese citizens receive content that encourages them to contribute to society and better themselves, whereas the US is algorithmically fed content that encourages us to worry about popularity and vanity.
90s didn't have the AI driven algorithms that are automating real-time decisions on delivering content to people (and children). Those decisions are optimized based on profit, which blindly looks at views, clicks, and other engagement metrics. The machines aren't guided by objectives to help society, and as a result they harm society.
3) Just in general, TikTok is horrible for our society. I don't think I a ban on TikTok is going to solve this in the long term, because it's just going to be replaced by something else. But I do think that this justification contributes to why we should be banning TikTok right now.
Watch the documentary I mentioned and you'll understand my pov a bit more. I'm not up in arms because people are using cuss words and rapping about sex. This issue is much more complex than that and you really shouldn't marginalize it.
They do have similar mechanics behind them, yes. Each is unique and each needs to be considered individually imo.
But just because we have a lot more work to do across products doesn't mean we should avoid an opportunity to fix one of them.
To your point, I absolutely would agree that broader consideration is needed on how algorithms are used in products that distribute content to people in mass.
I will say that, to your point, yes there are other companies doing similar things... Just because we have broader problems to address doesn't mean we need to give up on an opportunity to address one of them.