Essentially, Macau was controlled by Portugal, which was a neutral party to WWII. Japan honored that neutrality. That neutrality didn't stop Japan from having de facto control over Macau anyway, however... Portugal had no way of stopping Japan from stationing "advisors" there, for example.
The first thing we have to note is the actual status of the mother country to which Macau belonged: Portugal. At the time of the Second World War, Portugal was under the fascist dictatorship of António de Oliveira Salazar, who simultaneously held the posts of premier, foreign minister, and war minister (a most impressive and practically all-powerful trio in regards to foreign policy). Salazar did not wish for Portugal to become an active combatant in the Second World War, though he did allow the country to become a "key interest" for both the Axis and Allies. For one, Portugal represented a key "listening post" for all of the nations involved, and a center of intelligence operations for all of them. In 1943 for example, the officially listed missions to Portugal (made up of various embassies and legations) from the belligerent states was far out of proportion to the actual size of the country:
The Portuguese authorities were in close contact with the Axis legations, though all of foreign contingents were monitored through clandestine means in one way or another. Salazar also had a key asset in the form of wolframite, otherwise known as wolfram ore, a major source of tungsten required in the steel-hardening process which forged all manner of weapons. The key sources of this rare material, other than neighbouring Spain, was the Portuguese colony of Mozambique. With all of these cards to play, the Japanese were acutely aware that angering Salazar by occupying Macau would lead to consequences which no diplomat was willing to endure.
Actually I have followup questions, which may or may be more suited for their own post. During the first part of the Second Sino-Japanese War, 1937-1941, did Japan try to institute a blockade against China? If so, did the US/UK respect that blockade? What role, if any. did Macau (and Hong Kong) have in the import of fuel and arms to the Chinese during this period? And thus I presume any such imports to Macau would have been shut down in December 1941, if not earlier.
Then again, by nature of Macau's situation in 1942, it was not in a position to exert neutrality that much either. The fall of Hong Kong and the progress of the Second-Sino Japanese war meant that it was a literal and metaphorical European island in a sea of Japanese interests. Historian Geofrrey C. Gunn on what this meant for the tiny colony:
Levi, Werner. "Portuguese Timor and the War." Far Eastern Survey 15, no. 14 (1946): 221-23. Accessed February 4, 2021. .
Greetings! Alongside u/When_Ducks_Attack's excellent overview and linked response, this comment will go a tad more in-depth on why Japan (for the most part) respected Portugal's neutrality in the war. This sub-question is particularly interesting when you consider that the Japanese did occupy Portuguese Timor, going so far as to actively land troops there in 1942 (though the two nations did eventually come to an agreement of Japanese occupation being temporary and in-line with the defense of the nation). Let's begin.
Ptak, Roderich. "TWENTIETH CENTURY MACAU: HISTORY, POLITICS, ECONOMY A BIBLIOGRAPHICAL SURVEY." Monumenta Serica 49 (2001): 529-93. Accessed February 4, 2021. . (paywall locked).