How did Orellana and his men get back to Spain after reaching the mouth of the amazon? Their two boats were makeshift, shallow draft craft under 40 feet, and there weren't any other ports/cities around. Nueva Cadiz had been destroyed by earthquake the year before.
Cortés, Hernán (1519-26), Cartas de relación. Modern edition by Mario Hernández (1988, Madrid: Historia 16).
As usual, I can only speak about the Spanish historiography, but the reaction was of absolute bewilderment. The first settlers and conquistadores were completely stunned and it shows in their writings, which are many: the General and Natural History of the Indies by Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo, Hernán Cortés' Cartas de Relación, Gaspar de Carvajal's Descubrimiento, Alvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca's Naufragios... The feeling of wonder is all over the place, while the descriptions are rather correct in general terms. The Amazon river is so immense, that Gonzalo Fernández de Oviedo takes some time to give specifc news on natural phenomena that were unheard of in the Old World, and dedicates an entire chapter to that river. I will quote him on this passage, as he clearly states his sources (the translation is mine):
This information is actually correct, as with low tide, the Amazon river gets into the sea, and thirty leagues (165 Km) from the sea you can get sweet water. Let's not fail to notice the language he uses, as he says "such a notorious thing that God created in this world". He also mentions that the width of the mouth of the river to be twenty leagues (some 110 Km), which as accurate, as the mouth of the Amazon river forms a delta the width of wich is some 100 kilometers and more. This is absolutely unfathomably large, as the mouths of the largest rivers in Europe known to Oviedo were along the lines of less than one mile (Guadalquivir, Scheldt).
Gaspar de Carvajal, who was the chronicler of Orellana's discovery of the Amazon river, also tries to be as objetive as he can, but cannot fail to use the syntagm "cosa maravillosa de ver" (admirable thing to behold) every so often, because he knows that this things are borderline otherworldly. Christopher Columbus himself, on his third voyage, was so completely stunned, and his knowledge of the World was so challenged, that he thought he had arrived to the very Earthly Paradise, the Garden of Eden, itself. He says the following (translation mine):
Fernández de Oviedo, Gonzalo (1535), Historia General y Natural de las Indias. Seville: Montesdoca. Modern edition by Juan Pérez de Tudela (1992, Madrid: BAE).
Colón, Cristóbal (1493-1505), Cartas y relaciones. Edition from Biblioteca Clásica, volume CLXIV, Madrid: Viuda de Hernando, 1892.
Hernán Cortés himself was also fascinated with what he saw, and that can be easily inferred from the frequency of the words "maravilla", "maravilloso", and "maravillosa" (wonder and wonderful), for the things he was seeing could hardly be believed. In his first Carta de Relación he could not fail to mention the Popocatépetl volcano, so large and impressive as it was. I translate again:
Carvajal, Gaspar de (ca. 1550), Relación del descubrimiento del famoso río grande, que desde su nacimiento hasta el mar descubrió el capitán Orellana. Manuscript in the Biblioteca Nacional de España, digitised . Modern edition by Mariano Cuesta (1993, Madrid: RABM).
Myers, Kathleen Ann (2007), Fernández de Oviedo's chronicle of America: A New History for a New World. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Wayne, Franklin (1979), Discoverers, Explorers, Settlers: The Diligent Writers of Early America. Chicago: University Press.