You might want to read this recent one , by u/ParallelPain and me, on why the shogun never tried to replace the emperor. The most relevant information to the question should be somewhere in there.
Also, if you got too much free time you can also check out the respective section in the FAQ in addition, for more circumstantial information: , section on The Emperor and the Shogun. I also have an earlier answer on the whole idea of rule by the abdicated emperor, if that's still not enough.
Why replace the emperor, other people governed in his stead most of the time anyway. (also, we can't say for sure why it never happened because it never happened).
They were willing to go outside the immediate family of the former emperor for a successor. There were multiple cases of succession by nephews and grand-nephews, and at least one by a great-uncle. Many emperors died childless (usually succeeded by a brother). The most remote known succession was in 507 (according to the best reconstruction; this is before information is detailed and reliable), when the next emperor was a 4th cousin of the previous one. It was considered necessary for him to marry the sister of the previous emperor to legitimise the succession.
As a follow on, the fact that the imperial line has just maintained for that long is pretty impressive, considering how dynasties in other parts of the world have a tendency to run out of heirs for one reason or another. I know that adoption is widely accepted practice in Japan to continue a family line. Was that ever something the imperial family had to do to ensure a heir?
At the very least they had brothers adopt each other to ensure that the imperial line didn't split (this happened at least once in the early 14th century); I don't know enough about imperial family politics though to know how many times adoptions happened, and why they happened, without doing research on it.
It was especially true in the Nara and early Heian period; to be honest, I have, at this point in time, no idea how strictly this was actually followed in practice.
The emperor was a bit special, his inner quarters were entirely staffed by women, and no males were permitted to enter. More than enough of these dozens of children are by these ladies (the idea of a bastard didn't exist, so they were all full-fledged royalty).
Also, polygamy means you can have a lot of children. For example, Emperor Saga (786-842, r. 809-823) had fifty children; Godaigo (1288-1339, r. 1318-1339) had thirty-six. That is a slight "advantage" compared to the average Christian monarch .
I'm not aware of anyone else having written on this in English, to be honest. (the distribution of studies on women and gender is extremely biased towards modern Japan in European languages).
There are several materials in both Japanese and English hosted , of which the second paper in the list of related publications, esp. the essay "Gender in the Administrative Code: Laws on Officials in the Back Palace (1).".
I have no idea, unfortunately. My encounter with Chinese history was a crash course way back in undergrad, which is, by now...quite a long time ago.