In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
This occasionally ends up with bullies in charge who then use their forces to intimidate other potential candidates out of the voting pool. The plus for having a locally elected sheriff is that they tend to know the county and it's people inside and out, and can be more effective at handling happenings, having a more intimate knowledge of the area and it's occupants. Another plus is that sheriffs are accountable to the local populace and ones that don't get the job done, or begin to evidence corruption can be "removed" by the local populace, one way or another.
Look up the Colfax “riot” and get a real idea of how fucking corrupt. Made national headlines in the 1800s. Mass grave on courthouse lawn, which I can tell you is 2 blocks from the elementary school.
When I lived there, they were still stopping Black men to ask “what are you doing this side of the tracks at night”? Fuck Colfax. Fuck corruption.
As a fellow Lousiana resident, that number is egregiously wrong. As of 2021, Louisiana's incarceration rate is , or about 1.1% of the total population.
Currently, 4.6 million people reside in Louisiana. An incarceration rate of 20% would mean that 920,000 of those people are in prison, which is more than 75% of the .
That being said, your overall point about Lousiana having a rampant crime, corruption, and injustice crisis is correct. We still imprison about 1.6x as many people as the national average. Louisiana's share of the US prison population is about 4.1%, with only 1.3% of the overall US population living here - so, 4x more than it statistically should be. Sadly, it's very endemic to the state and I doubt it will get better anytime soon.
I think the reasoning is cities are the jurisdiction of city police, who are paid by city taxes, so they don't venture outside the cities. States are worked by state police who are paid by state taxes, but limited in number so they can't cover all areas. Sheriffs are paid by individual counties and as such, don't have governing bodies paying them, just the citizens of that county. There's no boss or H.R. department to interview them, so they run election campaigns for the population to pick who runs things based upon a popularity contest.