This type of question comes up fairly frequently, most recently with /u/Platypuskeeper's excellent answer . The TL.R is that we really know incredibly little about actual early medieval Scandinavian religion, especially their rites and rituals, or the specifics of cult devotions. We don't even know if the gods who are prominent in what literature we do have were actually ever worshipped at all, or were popular across Scandinavia if they were, while several gods who appear to have been venerated across different sites aren't recorded in literature at all.
TL.R of that TL.R: We don't know if any actual early medieval Scandinavians even thought of Loki as a god, let alone worshipped him.
Yes, Loki is particularly suspect in this case. He's is not known by name at all outside the Eddas and folklore recorded later - some of which, like the Hammer Retrieval story, were told well into the Modern period.
There are no place names for cult sites related to Loki, in fact no place names whatsoever related to Loki. Some (e.g. Jackson Crawford) seem to think this would be expected, what with Loki being a 'baddie'. (I'm a bit skeptical. Why not name _bad_ places after him then, as was done later with names like 'hell' and 'devil'?).
what is your take on Thor's Hammers? I read it that some archaeologists consider them a response to the cross pendants Christians wore and not an "original" idea.
Heimdallr's another major figure with no place names but he at least occurs on one amulet, a whorl from Linconshire, alongside Odin and an otherwise-unknown deity 'Þalfa'. But there's nothing like that for Loki, he's not mentioned in any capacity on any inscription. So there's simply no evidence of any sort he was ever venerated at all.
There are a few cases of scenes that have been attributed to being the bound Loki, on the Gosforth Cross and a picture stone from Gotland. It's hard to make a positive identification though given that being bound in a snake pit was an oddly popular motif (from Gunnarr in Atlakviða to Ragnar Lodbrok). - not least since Scandinavia doesn't have any lethal snakes! Anyhow, if they really depict Loki, the next mystery there is that those two monuments are Christian, raising the question if Loki was a syncretistic figure then.
But that can work either way; either the Biblical fallen angels, bound until doomsday were reworked into Loki's story. Or, the binding of Loki myth was lifted forth and emphasized to promote Christianity to the pagans. Or a bit of both.
They were a fairly _literate culture_. Literacy in runic script seems to have been reasonably widespread, although certainly only a minority of the population. It was however not a _culture of literacy_. There was no history or practice of writing documents on paper/parchment, or making any kind of longer written records. The available runic inscriptions are short and often formulaic. People used runes to record ownership of an object, to write magical words on a charm, or to memorialize someone. It was not used to transmit stories, mythology and history, which was an oral tradition. (on an aside the word 'saga' in Norse means 'talk', 'statement', 'something that was said').
In any case, as Grimm's old early 19th century etymology of Loki's name (Old Norse _loge_, 'flame/fire') and status as an ancient Germanic fire god is discredited these days. Loki doesn't seem to show up until 9th or 10th century Scandinavia, post-Christian contact for what that's worth.
Ullr and Loki are good examples of polar opposites here: Ullr had a massive amount of cult sites (and other sites) dedicated to him. (although localized almost entirely to Svealand and Östergötland regions in Sweden and Viken in Norway) There's no myths about him in the Eddas nor later folklore recorded anywhere. While as said, Loki on the other hand has more folklore recorded from more places in Scandinavia (and later) than anyone else except Thor, but no evidence of any cult.
But there are inscriptions mentioning the gods. But not Loki. There are some contemporary accounts from outsiders, like Adam of Brement, mentioning gods like Thor and Odin - but not Loki. There are place-names that are named after the gods, not least those ending in -vi which means a cult site. A place named 'Thorsvi' would've been a _vi_ dedicated to Thor. Odensvi for Odin ("Odense" in Denmark has this origin) There are no place names that include Loki though. He doesn't have a week-day either. We only have a few artifacts that seem to feature Loki - and they're both Christian.
There are many ways we know that gods like Thor, Odin, Tyr and Frejr were venerated. (although not necessarily all of them across all of Scandinavia) What we _don't_ know is how that worship was performed, or in general what it has to do (if anything at all) with the folklore and myths written down later in the Eddas and other sources. As said in the other comment, we know for instance that Ullr was widely venerated, even though he's barely mentioned in the Eddas, much less has his own myths. Brink (2007) documented over twenty 'Ullevi' place names in Sweden as compared to a half dozen 'Odensvi'. And for place names of any kind the numbers are similar for Odin, Thor and Ullr.
What we can say for certain is that Loki was a character that had some folklore stories about him that were popular and widespread in Scandinavia from about the late 9th or 10th century forward. Outside that, there's no evidence he was ever venerated as a god or really regarded as a god in the actual practical religion.
With gods like Odin and Thor that definitely _were_ venerated the problem is we don't know how much these mythological stories had to do with the cult and religion. But for Loki all we have is the stories and no evidence of any cult. (while for Ullr we have no stories but a cult).
Thanks for your answers, as a fellow anthropologist I always love a good historian's tale of details.
What I meant is what you said, I even hesitated to use the word fairly litterate, but being french-canadian I hesitated too long and meant what you said, that although they had their written words, we don't have much books from then which brings us to archeology, etc.
Now, I'm not one to be knowledgeable in previous lives nor in Viking mythology but with in mind respect of the buddhist tradition I was experimenting I decided to investigate if there was such a sect but ended up not finding any traces. Which you support.