You can talk to people about it. You can talk to rainn.org and others, and a therapist, etc. but it's legally problematic if you start telling someone like his partner. But you're not going to get sued at 17, and even if you are at 18, if you're in the US at least, he'd have to prove he didn't do what you say. Or the other way to go is to file a police report.
I suggest you file a police report and report all the details you can recall. It is important the authorities are aware of what he did, and investigate it, and more importantly, document it specially since he and his family is attempting to intimidate you by threatening you with court action. What he did at 15 has no excuse whatsoever. Speak to a psychologist to help you deal with your trauma and above all take care of yourself. It will be a difficult road ahead, but there's light in the end of that tunnel.
I discussed the requirements for defamation at lenh above in a response to the OP. The same case that I quoted establishing that liability cannot be imposed without fault on the part of the defendant without violating the Free Speech Clause of the First Amendment also describes the situation in which an opinion impliedly based on untrue facts may give rise to defamation liability. In Gertz v. Robert Welch, Inc., (1974) 418 U.S. 323, 339, the Supreme Court held that an expression of opinion alone cannot be the basis of a defamation action. If an expression of opinion is based on disclosed, non-defamatory facts, an action is not supported no matter how unreasonable or derogatory the opinion is. However, if the expression of opinion is based on undisclosed or implied facts, support of an action depends on the understanding of the recipient of the statement, since the meaning of a communication is that which the recipient reasonably understands it to be, even if he/she is mistaken in that understanding. So if the recipient reasonably believes the truth of an undisclosed or implied defamatory fact about the subject of a statement, the speaker is liable.