I know Rome encompassed a vast geographic range, and had citizens from all over, even before the invasions of Italy. In the late Roman Empire, did the Plebeian class identity start to break down? Or did people cling to the old social distinctions?
Apologies if this is a bit too far out of scope, I have other questions about the Ostrogoths I can ask...
That is very complex question indeed I'll narrow it down to one major difference: survival of institutional frameworks. When the last western Roman emperor was knifed in 480 CE, the governmental apparatus of Late Roman Italy was still intact. Fifth century emperors had prioritized the welfare of Italy above all other western provinces. Hence there was still a substantial bureaucracy that could organize taxes and keep the cogs of government (not to mention the army) running. Ostrogothic Italy also witnessed something of a literary Indian Summer, as in the writings of Ennodius, Boethius or Cassiodorus. So in short: the emperors were gone, but the imperial pillars survived until Justinian's Gothic Wars.
The impression we often get of Merovingian Gaul and Ostrogothic Italy is of the former being distinctly more 'barbarian' and the latter being much more 'Romanised', but that this is informed in large part by the more 'barbarian'-focussed narrative of Gregory of Tours in the Frankish case and the 'Roman' perspective of Cassiodorus in the Ostrogothic case. While of course this isn't going to be a quantitative analysis, based on a more holistic view, was Italy under the Ostrogoths genuinely more 'Romanised' compared to Frankish Gaul, perhaps owing to control of the old institutional centres in Rome and Ravenna, or were they more similar, or do we just not have the capacity to go too far against the Gregory/Cassiodorus narratives?
The idea that there was no visible standing army after 425 is a baseless assertion perpetuated by the school of those who fall under Liebeschuetz' research and I can show you clear Roman military Burials that date to the late-phase D2 like the Arms Depot from Dijon, Monceau-le-Neuf, or pretty much any site with a Type-6ii Crossbow Fibula which is a clear marker of the officeholders of militia. The soldiers buried at the grave Deposits at Rhenen or Sandbyborg may not have been Roman in origin but clearly served in the professional army which we can tell because the coin deposits coincide with the quinquennial donatives.
And then we have to look at why this happened and realize it was due to a change in imperial fiscal policy to make military service more attractive. Paying troops only in Gold coinage meant you could get away with paying them less due to the value of the gold, but would be more attractive to people who had never seen a gold coin in their lives.
Take it as somebody who does this for a living: there is nothing easier than taking apart in a few lines the work of people like Edward Gibbon (c. 1800), Otto Seeck (c. 1900) or Henri Pirenne (c. 1935). Yet these people wrote veritable tomes that have progressed our understanding of this period. One should at least respect the amount of work and thought they put into it. Heck, a lot of Gibbon's factual work (i.e. who did what where and when?) still holds up!
That would probably be an over-statement. In terms of logistics (e.g. supply lines, arsenals, fortifications etc), the Empire vastly outmatched Franks, Goths and the like. During the third and most of the fourth century, these new entities also did not have standing armies (e.g. full-time employed soldiers) but also were dedicated agricultural communities. Yet by the third century at the latest, it's clear that they were not the same as earlier barbarians. Archaeology makes clear that they had developed warrior aristocracies with extensive retinues. The Empire itself had supplied some of these with weapons during earlier conflicts (e.g. Marcus Aurelius' Marcomanni wars). Add to that Imperial Rome's need for slaves, and all the ingredients were there for stronger and more aggressive entities (I'm hesitant to use the word 'tribes'). Occasionally, these could humiliate imperial troops, as the Goths did with Decius in 251 CE. However, the crisis of the third century, saw emperors and imperial troops often having to tackle many challenges at the same time (not least Persia or usurpers, who were higher threats). It's not coincidence that once the empire had reorganized itself under Diocletian, these new entities such as Franks or Goths rarely stood a chance against a dedicated imperial army. The situation after 375 would require a different discussion though.
Frankish Gaul is almost the exact opposite. Northern Gaul was one of the first regions where state structures disappeared in the early fifth century. The Praetorian Prefect and his staff had already left Trier in the North, for Arles in the south. Coin production comes to a halt in the first quarter of the fifth century. There was no visible standing army after 425, unless one wants to include Alamanni or Franks stationed as auxiliaries. I deliberately do not use terms as 'Roman' or 'Barbarian', but the Empire was very much a state, and its structures rapidly disintegrated in Gaul north of the Loire. Ofcourse, Gregory was writing at the very end of the sixth century, so we should not immediately compare his Gaul with, let's say, Theoderic's Italy 75 years earlier.
As for the literary references the likes of which Liebeschuetz uses to make such a claim a single line from Priscus stating there were 6000 men in 472 contradicts that. As well as the fact several updates to the Notitia Dignitatum date to the late 420s.
I disagree with that assertion. Coin production is a terrible indicator of the breakdown of state structure especially considering the markers of bureaucratic presence remain well into the mid-5th century. By that logic we should also argue that the Danubian frontier was being overrun and breaking down because coin production at Sirmium and Serdica and other Eastern Roman sites (including in the Orient) was shut down at the exact same time (which was in 398 AD by the way, not the first quarter of the 5th century). There was clearly an edict in 398 withdrawing coin production to the central sites in both halves of the Empire as they simply stopped minting copper coins for the military.
Attila did retreat from Italy shortly afterwards, but other more secular factors were in play. Ancient Italy was infamous for diseases such as malaria, and another chronicler mentions that this was one of two major factors forcing the retreat. (NB that Alaric had succumbed to local diseases as well shortly after the sack of Rome in 410). The other major factor was the eastern emperor Marcian's decision to harass the Hunnic main territories along the Danube at the same time. So eastern Roman raiding parties at home, and disease stricken troops in Italy, probably worried Attila a tad more than the bishop of Rome.
And throw on top of that those who follow Goffart's model of Germanic settlement will quickly realize that the foederati were professional paramilitary forces, trained and equipped by the state on a model which would later be used to develop the so-called "Theme System.".
That does sounds like one of the topics from Bryan Ward-Perkins 'The Fall of Rome'. Firstly, we should start with "Rome leaving Britain". What this comes down to is the departure of (what was left of the) the mobile field army under the usurper Constantine III in 407. Many local garrisons will have stayed, as they did around Hadrian's Wall. Yet at this point, Britain was already in disarray for a while. Just like northern Gaul, Britain was exposed to the departure of emperors and their courts from Trier in the late 380s. We have to imagine the mobile imperial courts of the Late Empire as hubs of connecting industries. The same is even more true for stationed armies. The entire Late Roman taxation system was geared towards sustaining armies and bureaucracies, a lot of it in kind. The moment some of these pillars disappear (as they certainly did in Britain), that had serious consequences for local economies, especially in the long run.
However, I know several senior colleagues (including Ian Wood and Guy Halsall) who know the archaeological record of fifth century Britain far better than I do, and disagree with Ward-Perkins. They would point to sites where there is a lot more continuity. That being said, I am very much convinced that the empire in Britain collapsed very early in the fifth century. After the 410s, barely any coinage reached the island, and no emperor or staff could even attempt to levy taxes or recruits from it.
The contemporary chronicler Prosper, who was living and writing in Italy during Attila's invasion, does indeed mention that Valentinian sent a delegation to Attila in 452. Thing were pretty desperate at that time, since the Huns had waltzed through northern Italy and even sacked former imperial residences such as Milan and Aquileia. The delegation included Leo I, but also other high-ranking envoys such as Trygetius (who had negotiated with the Vandals many years before that). So yes, Leo was part of this, but not as the head honcho.
In terms of effectiveness, I'll have to refer to some of my other answers to similar questions. Yes, the Late Roman Empire faced greater challenges with fewer resources.
Well, we are talking about six tomes written nearly 250 years ago Does Gibbon stand up to contemporary academic standards? Somewhat... Was it a pioneering work in terms of advancing academic standards back then? Absolutely.