Bill can’t move if he has a pending sentence lol. That in and of itself violates the law. If he pled guilty to a felony, leaving the state is another crime.
I guess the answer to number 2 depends on how involved you want to get. Technically, since he hasn’t done it yet, there’s no law being broken. Does he have anyone specifically he has to report to that you would contact?
We know the contact information of state’s prosecutor in the current court case, so we could call him. I don’t know if he has a probation officer.
Well, at the very least, he can’t move yet. If/when he does, he has 24 hours to notify law enforcement that he moved. Some states even require you notify them before you move depending on the crime you committed.
As someone convicted and under the registration requirement of another state, WI state law requires Bill to register within 10 days of moving into the state.
It is possible that Bill could be prosecuted in Indiana, or Wisconsin or even both states if he fails to update or renew his registration.
I mean, I definitely think this is the dumbest thing I’ve ever heard, but Jane would buy sand in the desert if Bill was selling it to her. She’s not the best critical thinker and has rose colored glasses for him.
To answer your second question, you might as well call the prosecutors office. As long as you tell the truth to the best of your knowledge, you are legally in the clear. Though it is possible Bill finds out you made the call and comes after you in a non legal way. The prosecutor can determine what if any actions to take based on the info you provide.
To answer the first, there are different laws and levels of sex offender in every state. You don’t have to know the answer. I would suggest if and when Bill moves you call the sheriffs department in the jurisdiction he moved too and ask to speak with the sex crimes division. Again, report only truthful information that you are aware of. Do NOT embellish or make anything up. Their sex crimes division can easily reach out to IN and find the information they need. And they will know best how to handle it.
Thank you. Ultimately, I’m concerned about the young children of Jane’s extended family, should Jane and Bill move into the matriarchal house to care for Jane’s mother. Jane’s mother also has a mentally disabled adult in her care.
I’m also concerned about the fact that Jane and her mother believe Bill that he doesn’t have to register in WI. Their judgement and belief in what he says is concerning — I’m not sure how anyone can believe that “lifetime registrant” means most states except Wisconsin for some reason.
And finally, I’m more long-term worried that Bill is taking advantage of Jane financially now, which will advance to Jane’s mother and her disabled adult child, should they move in the future.
All of these are “what if’s,” given that none of them have happened yet — all I know is what’s happening now (their stated intention to move, the story about not needing to register, and Bill‘s current court case about failing to register this year). Unfortunately, we think Bill has used all of Jane’s money at this point. Plus, there are the non-legal issues and continued consequences to her own actions, but that’s also not a legal issue, as you pointed out. She has already lost contact with all of her adult children, has grandchildren she’s never met, and even some of her siblings are no longer on speaking terms with her.