Manstein's impact is probably illustrated no better than with the praiseful foreward to the work provided by B.H. Liddell-Hart, the British historian who similarly venerated Rommel and generally pushed the "Clean Wehrmacht" narrative, where he wrote of Manstein as "the Allies' most formidable military opponent - a man who combined modem ideas of mobility with a classical sense of manoeuvre, a mastery of technical detail and great driving power.".
And of course not to mention Manstein's "Lost Victories", which was a hugely influential work in the West:
It is an endemic problem, and one caused by any number of factors, from language barriers through chauvinism to politics. There isn't going to be any answer as to "how much", simply because such a calculation would be essentially impossible, nor would simply listing examples be all that constructive, but I will use one example which I think illustrates a number of the historiographical issues that are in play here, borrowing from an answer I wrote some time back that was specifically about historiography of the Eastern Front in World War II, with some slight modifications related to what you are asking here.
For a long time, the study of the Eastern Front in World War II was significantly hampered by all of the factors that I mentioned above, and more beyond that. Much of the core issue stemmed from the rising antagonism between East and West which meant that Western historians lacked access to Soviet archives and other sources, while at the same time they did not only have extensive access to German sources, they further had access to the Germans themselves. this is perhaps best exemplified by Gen. Franz Halder, who had served as head of OKH during the war, and after became closely involved with the U.S. Army Historical Division, although the memoirs of commanders such as Manstein, Guderian, and Mellenthin too were hugely influential in shaping post-bellum perceptions of the Eastern Front in the West. That isn't to say that there weren't always Western scholars doing their very best to seek out an honest, and balanced understanding, but sheer will-power isn't enough to overcome something such as an archive closed off by the Soviet government.
As the US and her allies began looking towards West German rearmament, there was political expediency in this acquiescence to German perspectives, which included veritable whitewashing of Wehrmacht involvement in war-crimes (The "Clean Wehrmacht" myth), and also a denigration of Soviet military capabilities, denying that the Red Army had won through anything other than sheer numbers and the leaderships' ruthless willingness to use them (A quick note is worth mentioning here, namely that it is fair to say that the Soviets did engage in such attacks at points, especially in the early days when things were collapsing, and even more so with the untrained civilian levies that were raised and barely armed in desperate delaying actions. The issue isn't whether they ever did it, but whether it characterized the typical Soviet attack and general sense of tactics for the war. Several tropes are addressed ). In "When Titans Clashed" Glantz and House set the tone of earlier historical study - and the shift of which they were riding one of the first waves - in their introduction:
Prime examples of this can be found in the works produced under Halder's supervision, studies that were nominally US Army publications, but in many ways apologia for German military skill, defeated only by insurmountable numbers. In their work "The Myth of the Eastern Front", Davis and Smelser provide some choice quotations used in describing the Soviets:
Similar commentary comes from the aforementioned memoirs, well characterized by translator Steven Newton's introduction to Gen. Raus' memoirs which he describes as "very much a Cold War period piece, in which the Germans fought hard but honorably against the malevolent Soviet hordes." Raus, speaking tactically, describes Soviet attacks as "waves upon waves" at a number of points, and with this passage being a good exemplifier of this characterizations:
And although less influential, nevertheless illustrative of the German characterizations, this comes from Kurt Meyer's memoir of his time in the Waffen-SS:
So to tie this all back to the original point, the above are examples of the primary and secondary sources that were of great influence in the West in the immediate post war years, and up through the 1980s at the very least. As David M. Glantz and Jonathan House point out, the very fact that we refer to it as "The Eastern Front" belies the perspective from which Western historiography approaches the conflict. Again, not to say that no earlier historians were attempting to give the Soviet Front its fair shake - the works of John Erikson or Earl Ziemke remain well respected, even if they have shown their age - but even the best intentioned authors were hampered by the lack of good Soviet sources and a plethora of German ones. And even putting aside the obvious biases of the German memoirists, and their almost universal desire to find something to blame defeat on other than their own shortcomings - whether it be Hitler's meddling, the Russian winter, or the "Asiatic hordes" - they also enjoyed focusing on the good times, 1941 and 1942, rather than the bad of 1944 and 1945.
In any case, what this all means is that while some treated the topic better than others, none could entirely escape the kinds of limitations they faced. The backdrop of the Cold War, and the inherent inclination to distrust the Soviets in that period, and build back up the Germans in an effort to reinstill some martial vigor - albeit in a new shade of grey - meant that undue weight was given to the German self-image, and consequently, their image of the enemy too.
Beginning in the '80s, and especially taking off after the end of the Cold War and the sudden influx of previously inaccessible Soviet documentation, historians like Glantz, House, or Reese have all played important parts in bringing about a reevaluation, and helping us better understand the Great Patriotic War from a more honest perspective, but it remains a problem still. The sheer weight of historiography is hard to crawl out from under, and the conventional wisdom of the Eastern Front is still chock-full of the kinds of erroneous information that while mostly gone from academia still inhabits the world of popular histories to an uncomfortable degree (The "Clean Wehrmacht Myth" is still disturbingly common in popular discourse, for starters), not to mention remains present in popular media such as Enemy at the Gates or Call of Duty.
Nothing wrong with it, I simply bring that up to make a point about perspective, but it isn't problematic in the way that some naming conventions can be, for instance calling the Wounded Knee Massacre the "Battle of Wounded Knee".
In fairness, while some was deliberate, some of the matter was happenstance. It certainly is true that a lack of reliable Soviet sources - many being inaccessible, and those released only the ones deemed ideologically acceptable - was an unavoidable pitfall for any Western historian writing on the topic, and even for a Soviet one if they weren't respecting the party line! Zhukov himself began his memoirs with no expectation that they would see the light of day. Following his second ouster, this time under Khrushchev, is own role in World War II was mostly forgotten, and the remainder maligned, when it came time to publish the official Soviet history of the war, Istoriia Velikoi Otechestvennoi Voiny Sovetskogo Soiuza 1941-1945, between 1960 and 1966. It was only after his re-restoration under Brezhnev that publication became a possibility and that he was able to 'set the record straight' and rebut the various accounts he believed to have slandered himself.
A question on sources - what significant differences, if any, exist between Erickson and Glantz? If any, do you think they are a product of access or characterization?
And that is the core of what can be done, really. There isn't some magic button that an historian can press to 'correct the record'. All they can really do is work to improve what we know, honestly and fairly (, as well) and try to get that to filter into the mainstream, which isn't always easy. So there also is a responsibility on your part, to ensure that you are learning the right stuff. It can perhaps seem daunting as a layperson - after all how do you know its the good stuff if you haven't learned about it yet? - but there a lot of good clues out there to follow! Reading reviews, looking for books that are from academic presses, checking to see if the publication date is 2015 rather than 1951... those can all help you pick out what to read and what is more likely to point you in the best direction. I'd also be remiss not to point to /u/caffarelli's excellent guide on , as that is also pretty helpful.
Glantz, David M. & Jonathan House. When Titans Clashed: How the Red Army Stopped Hitler. University Press of Kansas, 1995.
Davis II, Edward J. & Ronald Smelser. The Myth of the Eastern Front: The Nazi-Soviet War in American Popular Culture. Cambridge University Press, 2008.
von Mellenthin, F.W. Panzer Battles: A Study of Employment of Armor in the Second World War. trans. H. Betzler. University of Oklahoma Press, 1982.