Since you only have four employees, you're not subject to the ADA or the Utah Antidiscrimination Act - both have a threshold of 15 employees. You aren't required to provide this (or other) accommodations.
It doesn't sound like their request is reasonable anyway. You may want to speak to a local employment attorney to make sure all of your ducks are in a row.
I couldn't imagine a request I basically hire an additional person and invent a different job for the current R would be reasonable. It's one of those things that as I'm typing the submission out I realize how unreasonable it all sounds and that I likely don't have much to worry about. Glad I posted nonetheless. Thank you.
Thank you. All this helped me get the ball rolling on reaching out to an attorney. I've thus far not received (or asked for) any actual physician's note, so I hope that doesn't come back to haunt me.
I agree with everything that has been said, but just wanted to make sure that you know how important it’s going to be for you to document everything here. This sounds like it will likely turn into an unemployment claim, possibly an ADA complaint, or even worse a discrimination lawsuit. You may have a good defense to all three of those things, but the degree to which you document your response to this is going to be very important for you to properly avail yourself of that defense. Make sure you document every interaction where this “accommodation” is discussed with the employee. It would be a good idea to engage private counsel to assist you with composing your responses. Remember that the accommodation request process is designed to be a back-and-forth, an exchange between the employee and the employer, so you should try to ensure there is a writing memorializing as much of the exchange as possible. A key phrase for you is “undue hardship”, which is what this request would cause you to endure if you granted it. Obviously if the ADA does not apply to you that is an important point to make as well. Best of luck!
This would be a bad time to discuss bathroom time or driving to the mailbox with your employee. Let those very small things go. You do not want to appear to be an unreasonable employer. You may not be subject to the ADA, but you are subject to OSHA which requires you to allow employees to use the bathroom as needed and again, you do not want to appear to be the type of employer who is monitoring or restricting bathroom use.