In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Part of Trump's power has been the media's tendency to frame everything in terms of "why are Republicans angry today?" When he's the only game in town , even left leaning media is obsessed with him to the exclusion of everything else. But that dynamic isn't a Trump thing, it's a Newt Gingrich thing. Right wing media power is drifting away from Trump, and mainstream to left leaning media has already signaled a shift to DeSantis as soon as he comes out of the Fox News bubble.
DeSantis doesn't have Trump's charm, he doesn't have Trump's money, and it remains to be seen whether he has Trump's sociopathic viciousness. Popularity isn't enough. Governing isn't enough. Ideas and policies aren't enough. These guys are in a pissing contest. MAGA voters care about dominance. Who is the Alpha MAGA? We've seen Trump neuter opponents before. Does DeSantis have it in him to take down Trump?
>“Let me tell you something,” Wilson said. “Donald Trump would rather Joe Biden be president for a thousand years than Ron DeSantis be president for five minutes.”.
So the question isn't really whether DeSantis can survive a pissing contest with Trump. Who even cares? I've been saying for years, Republicans will find themselves with no one left to hate but each other, split into factions, and self-destruct. We can only hope that's what's happening now.
My friend, I live in Florida. Ron DeSantis can easily exceed Trump for sociopathic viciousness. But he has absolutely zero charisma. Republican voters are a bread and circuses crowd. They don't care about ideas, governing, or policy. They just want to see people being thrown to lions. Sociopathic viciousness is the only tool in the DeSantis box for keeping the spotlight.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The question is whether DeSantis can hack it outside his Fox News safe space. He pees himself when he's not being coddled. He's smarter than Trump, but that's a low bar. He has the demeanor of a bratty 8-year-old who's been banned from eating paste. He''s about as inspiring as Bluto's big speech in Animal House. He's the Fred Phelps of Fred Thompsons. But the media will bend over backwards to have their horse race. Republicans will take over the house in January and make enough chaos that Trump's services will no longer be necessary. The dark money sugar daddies are starting to see Trump as a liability. He's going down one way or the other.
Good point. If the right wing media start to criticise Trump for his lies and divisiveness and self obsession, rather than justify or even lionise, the dynamic would definitely be different.
Maybe this is a good thing, Republicans with lame-ass DeSantis as their show pony being a stupid, nasty, toxic, squabbling hateable clown car for the entire 2-year run up to the next election.
I always had the impression that DeScrotis had a big stick up his ass. He seems very much like he is in the verge of tears all the time. Who hurt Ronald McSantis?
Remains to be seen. Trump is many things - evil incarnate possibly being one of them - but one thing he certainly is, is a fighter. He's utterly damn incompetent in every sphere except being a mob boss and self promotion. So he's had plenty of opportunity to fight back from losing situations. I don't know whether DeSantis wants this fight. Trump might offer him the VP job and DeSantis might accept, keep his powder dry for 2028, and hope Trump doesn't find a way around the 22nd amendment.
Yeah, the monkey comments about Gillum were also nasty, as were the African American comments re Musk.
Yes, theyre a fascist party now. They have no ideals. They stand for nothing. They are a vehicle for maintaining political power for themselves and their donors. They are an empty husk. However, it's impossible to predict when they'll fall apart. They might win power in 24 first, and if they did, they would direct almost all their attention to changing the system so they could never lose power.
But a full frontal Trump assault is something else. Can he not only take it, but punch back harder? Tbh, I doubt it.
Yeah, he can't though, because he's a narcissistic egoist. When he's faced with a choice between doing the thing that will make him more electorally popular, or more successful in business, and the thing that will feed his ego, it's no choice at all.