In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The data was compiled by Gifford’s Law Center, which advocates for better gun safety laws around the U.S.
Women and nonwhite federal lawmakers are more likely to receive threats of gun violence compared to their white, male counterparts, according to new data obtained exclusively by VICE News.
What’s more, the number of armed threats against lawmakers appears to be on the rise, Giffords found. From 2016 to 2020, about 45 percent of threats mentioned guns. Between Jan. 2021 and Oct. 2022, that figure had risen to 63 percent, according to Giffords.
Ok, so about 18 events per year total and that makes around average of 9 per year in which a gun was mentioned. 9 a year in a country of 350,000,000 people. This article is a big nothing burger but a piece for VICE to "exclusively" spread propaghanda for Giffords.
Giffords is a Bloomberg funded anti-gun group well known for their unethical ways in conducting "data studies" to ensure it results in a certain way.
Additionally, nearly half of all indictments involving threats to federal legislators were directed to female lawmakers—despite women holding between 19 and 27 percent of seats in Congress over that six year period.
I still have no actual solutions to America's gun problems tbh, just such a shitty circumstance with no path to resolution without great consequences somewhere.
Banning guns isn't the solution anymore. I don't trust the right wing to just say "okay, well since yall don't have any weapons we'll just not use ours ever. Deal? Katana fight!". Anything that keeps them out of the hands of the mentally unwell is good, and provides peaceful people the means to protect themselves is also good. The issue is decided who's 'mentally well'. Kind of like the IQ test was biased, so too can a quiz designed to decide who gets to own a firearm.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.