Not a lawyer. I do have some transplant experience, but it was many years ago, so I hope this info is still relevant. Usually, the recipient’s insurance or Medicare would cover the donor’s hospital costs. It sounds like this didn’t happen. She should call her coordinator to get to the bottom of this. If the coordinator can’t solve it, he or she should know who to contact.
For context we’ve been speaking with the coordinator for months and the issue seems to be with their billing department and not her brother’s insurance. We were told the hospital will pay first and then bill the insurance but the hospital hasn’t been paying the bills sent to them to them be reimbursed by insurance from what the coordinator has explained. Ultimately, the insurance hasn’t received the outstanding bills yet from what we know. They told her to send all bills directly to her coordinator to send to the hospital’s finance contact. We requested the contact for whoever is supposed to be handling payment earlier today and are hoping to hear back soon as this has been an ongoing problem since about May when the first unpaid bill came back.
Some hospitals may have other titles for this but I think the primary verbiage to use is to ask the hospital operator to be transferred to file a grievance/complaint if they don’t have an ombudsman/someone with that title. Grievance departments are specially tasked to interfere with all of the other departments in a hospital. They also have requirements for resolving their grievances, usually within 30 or 60 days. If they do not handle this then I would call your wife’s insurance company and repeat the process— saying you’d like to file a complaint against a provider for a service issue.
I second the recommendation for ombudsman. I have had this role and this is exactly the sort of thing I was tasked to get to the bottom of.
It sounds like you have the correct next steps. The hospital’s billing department or ombudsman should hopefully be able to shed some light on this. r/insurance might also be able to offer some help/advice as well. Best of luck.
Not a problem! Make sure you write down names of everyone you speak to and if applicable ask for a case number or reference number or title of person described.