Didn't say my cousin believed it, especially since she didn't have the contract sitting in front of her to confirm or deny this claim. This is what the singer told my cousin while we were at the venue finishing setup and my cousin was on the phone talking to the singer and then text messages from the singer. At that point, there was no time.
All of this went down while we were at the venue finishing setup. My cousin didn't show me the contract, probably didn't have it with her. She was fuming to say the least, because this person chose not to show up and then essentially made a threat of "you'll regret it" if my cousin decided to make this information public with reviews.
I offered to read the contract, see if the clause is there, and even be the one to post reviews, and research what options are available to recoup the money.
The basic principle is the exchange of money for a service; the law generally establishes that if no service was provided payment is not due. The caveat being of course that there are provisions on every contract that vary the requisites for both service and payment (obligations). However, it’s very unlikely that any contract says that the service provider can cancel the delivering of the services at any time for any reason and will keep the money. The breach of the contract came from the singer, the provider of the service, and on the day agreed upon; I can list many things that can legally turn into payment of damages for such an action: having to pay more to replace the service, investing precious time on the day of the event to solve the problem created by the service provider, extra costs for whatever action made to repair the situation, etc. I am not a lawyer in your jurisdiction, but as a lawyer I can say that - if all the facts check out- one very detailed and stern letter would do the trick, and I would definitely add damages. You can say whatever you want about this person and their breach, unless you signed something to prohibit it-> this is your story and it happened to you, there’s no fabrication and the damage is only the consequences of the action that breached the contract. Good luck OP.