The truth / historical fact is that by the time Europeans reached North America, plant domestication / agriculture had a history several thousand years deep, and the majority of the population from the Atlantic coast to west of the Mississippi River was living in permanent villages, towns, and urban centers supported primarily by food production.
When Europeans arrived in Eastern and Southeastern North America in the 16th and 17th centuries, they encountered fully agricultural cultures-- civilizations, if you want to apply that somewhat baggage-laden term. These cultures mostly farmed the famous three sisters: corn, beans, and squash. Interestingly, two of these crops (corn and beans) originated in southern North America (Central America) and in South America, and were brought / imported north over the last 5000 years.
Southwestern Native American cultures were growing corn 4000 years ago, and by approximately 2300 years ago (plus or minus a couple centuries), corn appears to have been incorporated into the crop complex grown in the Eastern Woodlands. However-- and this is important-- these were not the first crops to be grown in Eastern / Southeastern North America. Instead, corn and beans were folded into an existing set of indigenous agricultural practices that had been developing in North America since at least 5,000 years ago, and arose out of earlier practices dating at least another two or three thousand years earlier.
The first conclusive evidence we have of early efforts to cultivate (and ultimately domesticate) plants in North America is in squash and gourds. These presaged increased cultivation and experimentation with a variety of other seed-producing plants beginning around roughly 4500 to 5000 years ago or a bit earlier. It's likely that the earliest squash and gourd cultivation focused on the edible seeds of the plants rather than the flesh of the plants, although the flesh likely was (or became) also a significant source of food. Domesticated versus wild remains of these plants often hinge on seed size differences (domesticate were larger) and it's very likely that selection for larger seeds had a lot to do with the domestication of squash and gourds. But rather than focus on squash, I want to lean more into the seed-based plant domestication efforts.
Domesticated chenopodium (a relative of modern-day quinoa) has early dates of around 3800 to 4000 BP, and marsh elder has dates of around 4400 BP.
Middle (8900 to 5700 BP) and Late Archaic (ca. 5700 to 3200 BP) indigenous Eastern North American cultures began experimenting with plant husbandry / cultivation (horticulture) at least 6000 to 8000 years ago. It is strongly suspected that care and management of productive stands of masting trees, for example, may have played a role in the development of ideas about plant cultivation, mass processing of resources, etc.
Evidence from archaeological sites excavated in Arkansas, Tennessee, Kentucky, and Missouri (especially rockshelters, which are excellent environments for preservation of fragile plant remains) indicates that North American peoples were collecting the wild seeds of oily seed-producing plants such as marsh elder and sunflower and starchy seed-producing plants like goosefoot / chenopodium, erect knotweed, little barley, and maygrass well before they began experimenting with cultivation, some as far back as 7000 years ago. Some of these plants-- chenopodium, sunflower, marsh elder-- with a longer history of collection also appear to be the ones that were domesticated fairly early. Early evidence of domesticated sunflower was recovered in Tennessee at the Hayes Site, dating to around 4300 BP. Earlier domestication of that crop has been proposed at closer to 4800 years BP.
These crops and others that were added over the ensuing centuries have been referred to by Bruce Smith as the Eastern Agricultural Complex. Some were fully domesticated, meaning that the plants were genetically changed as people selected for preferable traits (size, ease of processing, etc.). Others were only cultivated wild (maygrass, little barley) and were never domesticated. But the development of this agricultural complex in Eastern North America makes the region one of only a relative few in the world (current estimates are around about 8 places) where agriculture / plant domestication was independently invented.
The plants of the EAC together provided a substantial base from which sedentary cultures could expand and flourish. Beginning in the Late Archaic period, we start to see larger and more permanent settlements in river valleys. Monumental architecture-- not necessarily a product purely of agricultural peoples, as we can see with Poverty Point-- expanded significantly with these sedentary societies. The mound building cultures of the Eastern Woodlands flourished. After about 3200 BP, evidence suggests that peoples across much of eastern North America were engaged in significant food production using the crops of the EAC, and much of the population was shifting to sedentary or semi-sedentary ways of life.
By about 2300 years ago, evidence suggests that maize / corn reached the Eastern Woodlands. A Mexican domesticate, the early forms of corn were much different than modern corn, with quite small cobs that produced only a handful of kernels. Nevertheless, corn was highly productive, exceeding the calories per acre of pretty much any of the other indigenous EAC crops. The crop appears to have rapidly displaced most of the indigenous crops. Most archaeologists who study this period and subsequent periods in indigenous American history / "prehistory" attribute the rise of the Middle Woodland Hopewell cultures, and Late Woodland farming cultures that gave rise to the Mississippian civilization, to the high productivity of corn. By the terminal Late Woodland period, ca. AD 800 - 900 (around about 1100 years BP), we see the emergence of a geographically expansive set of cultural and social practices that are broadly described as "Mississippian." Some of the earliest Mississippian centers-- e.g., Cahokia outside St. Louis-- were enormous, featuring colossal earthen mounds constructed with sophisticated soils engineering practices that modern-day earthen dam and levee designers would recognize.
The Mississippian civilization extended from west of the Mississippi River to the Atlantic and Gulf Coast, with likely diplomatic ties and other interaction networks with coastal peoples such as the Calusa (who were able to maintain a largely hunter-gatherer subsistence pattern due to their access to rich marine resources along the Florida coast).
When Europeans arrived in North America, they encountered Mississippian peoples living in permanent and well-organized towns and villages across the landscape, which was extensively populated and managed. These cultures were predominately agricultural, supported (by that time) by mainly maize agriculture, although some of the earlier indigenous North American domesticates were likely also grown at that point.
Of note: sunflowers were domesticated exactly once in human history, probably somewhere in what is today Tennessee or Arkansas.
I just wanted to add on to u/JoeBiden2016's response on this, that considering agriculture in this light is a very modern idea that only really even started around the 18th century or so. In most times and places farming put agricultural communities just above subsistence level, and the concern was more along the lines of "I hope we have food this year" over "how can I optimize land use".
I note this because, to give an example, in the case of early modern Europe it was actually a very long project to convince European peasants to grow potatoes, despite it being a very productive and nutritious crop. The issue of course being that it's productive and nutritious when grown and consumed correctly and being intimately familiar with one set of crops does not translate, really, at all into automatically being intimately familiar with the raising, maintenance, harvest, storing, and consumption of another set of crops. Indeed, in the case of potatoes, if you eat the wrong parts, or the peels of incorrectly-stored potatoes, you'll poison yourself. Same deal with another New World crop, cassava: it's nutritious and calorie-dense, and is now a widespread crop across the tropics. It will also give you cyanide poisoning if consumed raw.
Corn has some similar pitfalls: it may be more calorie dense than other types of food, but it's also deficient in niacin. If you have a heavy corn-based diet, you can develop pellagra, which is a niacin deficiency. Unless, of couse, you nixtamalize the corn, meaning you soak it in an alkali solution (this is done in Mexico and Central America to make masa). Nixtamalization was done by Native peoples in Eastern America as well when they grew corn: the term hominy is itself a Powhatan word for nixtamalized corn kernels.
But my point is that it's not just a matter of subbing in a more productive crop - there is a whole skill set and process a community needs to adopt in order to not just grow but consume that crop correctly, and just swapping in a new crop that in theory is more efficient can actually cause more (and worse) problems than it solves.