It's not an inheritance tax, since you aren't inheriting it. It'd be a gift tax. Any of the $250k above $30k ($15k from each parent) has the potential to be taxed. Except there is a lifetime gift tax exclusion of $11.7 million (per person, so combined with your parents it's $23.4m). So your parents can sign a tax form taking the $220k from the $11.7m, meaning that when they do die, they can only grant you $11.5 million without paying tax.
They could also establish an irrevocable trust with someone else as the trustee, and fund the trust to pay your college.
If your parents are likely to give you more than $23.4m, they probably have their own tax people to structure this deal they're talking with anyway, so what are you doing on Reddit?
For the first idea, are you basically saying that instead of paying gift taxes, my parents could just grant me less money when they die? If so, that sounds like a great solution.
I don't understand the second one though. What's an irrevocable trust? I searched it up but it sounds very confusing.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It’s not exactly that they have to pay less money when they die. It’s that if they’re going to give away more than 23.4 million dollars during or after their lifetime, they will have to pay tax on the excess above $23.4m. They can choose to pay it now, when giving you the money now, meaning they preserve that $220k worth of exemption, and then when they die you’ll be able to reduce the inheritance tax you have to pay on the bit above the full $23.4 million instead of paying inheritance tax on whatever is above $23.2 million.
Idk how much my parents are likely to give me as inheritance, but they do have someone who helps fill out their taxes. I doubt they have talked to them about the 529 plan or putting money in my name though.
Or they can gift it now, pay no taxes now, file a simple form, and then you only have to pay an inheritance/gift tax if you get more than $23.2 million (assuming your parents don’t make any other large gifts during their lifetime). Typically it’s more tax advantageous to avoid taxes now than to have the possibility of avoiding taxes in the future; but who knows.
Normally a the owner of a 529 can change the beneficiary to whomever they want (even to themselves) at any time. But if you’re the listed owner and beneficiary, they wouldn’t have control over it anymore.
Ok so my parents told our family brokerage company to create two accounts, a 529 and a normal account. Both accounts are in just my own name. The 529 will have the money for all four years of tuition and the other account will have the money for all the other costs for all four years (housing, food, etc) and my parents will fill out the tax form so that they won't have to pay the gift tax now. The 529 previously was planned to be in my mom's name with me as the beneficiary but now it will be in my own name instead of my mom's. I just want to confirm, will this plan ensure that they won't be able to take away the money?
Title: Is there any way I can have the funds for all four years of my college education in a bank account just in my name? Urgent.