As a qualified dr I'd be looking at moving your qualifications rather than asylum, as you cant work as an asylum seeker in the uk, until your case is assessed, which can take years.
As an asylum seeker the small amount of money the government will give you will barely cover food, you would not be able to pay for exams and qualifications.
You'd be best off finding a migration agent who knows something about moving medical qualifications.
As the parent commenter said, it is illegal to give specific visa advice for the UK, so we can't give you anything other than general "this is how the system works" advice.
But in many countries, including the UK, being a qualified doctor would be very likely to allow you to emigrate "normally" (which is to say, without having to seek asylum) under points-based emigration systems.
Speaking French and coming from Algeria would likely make France the most obvious option, but good English skills could open up options like the UK, USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand.
You're in the fortunate position that doctors are in demand pretty much worldwide, so if I were you I'd definitely be looking at emigrating to work rather than seeking asylum.
You may need to apply for work first, in order to be "sponsored", although that depends on the country. Most countries have a "skilled visa calculator" or similar to see if you'd qualify based on your earnings, sponsorship, qualifications, age etc.
Edit since I can't reply directly to the comment below: It's not illegal in the UK to talk about VISA rules, it's just illegal to give specific VISA advice. This is mostly done to avoid unscrupulous folk scamming those who wish to migrate to the UK. The UK is a very popular destination for emigration/immigration (depending on your perspective), and there have been problems of companies charging would be migrants for "advice" that is either wrong or freely available. Which is to say, we can give general "This is how the system works, these are the rules" advice, but can't really advise anyone on a specific course of action etc, at least when it comes to VISA specifics.
First you need to figure out what country, then reach out to an immigration lawyer in that country. From what other posters are saying, the UK may not be the best solution for you. A French speaking nation may be better since you are already fluent in the language and it would be easier for you to research that country's laws/regulations/benefits for either asylum seekers or immigration. (In Canada the province of Quebec is fully French).