No matter how much upper-case emphasis you put on her gruesome injuries, worker's compensation is her sole remedy for those injuries.
Worker's comp is a "sole remedy, no-fault" system. It doesn't matter if her employer was negligent in training her, and it doesn't matter if she was negligent in her operation of the machine.
I assume you mean that she has a worker's compensation attorney. If she is dissatisfied with their ability to get her post-hospital treatment and permanent disfigurement compensation, she can get another.
I understand your mother has substantial injuries and needs that match them. But her recourse is worker's compensation, and she needs to focus on that instead of wasting time trying to circumvent it.
The penalties against her employer from OSHA are between them and the government. They don't entitle your mother to any of that money.
Each state has a different way of handling WC. Some treat it like a personal injury case and wait till all the bills come in then cut one check, others treat it more like an ongoing insurance coverage. WC attorneys charge percentages from payouts, so it should not cost you anything up front. In the mean time, do not miss ANY appeal dead lines or filing dead lines. (At least in my state) if a deadline is missed, you're sol.
the attorney told me we could sue if we found a third party that was responsible for the accident. couldn't that be the manufacturer of the equipment or property owner?
Pain and suffering is not covered through worker's compensation. Worker's compensation is also the "exclusive remedy" for her injuries, meaning she cannot sue regarding this accident. Unfortunately they're all correct, there's no other recourse. I'm so sorry for the accident. That sounds terrible.
its ok i understand your point. she was being trained on it and her supervisor was standing with her. the machine got moving and was just so much bigger than her when it struck her they were unable to stop it. I'm not sure if that's considered a malfunction but they were sited by OSHA for having power equipment that endangered their employees.
Did the equipment malfunction or was your mom not using it properly/was not trained on it? I'm not trying to be rude but there's an important difference between the two. I doubt you would have any recourse against the property owner.
You probably won't get anyone till Tuesday with the long weekend, but use that time to research your local attorneys. A good way is to call your Bar Association, they can give you a list of WC attorneys in your state.
Personal advice, if the attorney has a commercial, avoid them. They are in it for the first big payout, and then tend to lose interest if your state is set up more win the "long term insurance" type WC.