If you frequent the sub, you know the drill. If you're here from /r/all, or browse only occasionally, please be aware we have strict rules here intended to enforce the very high bar we expect from comments, so before posting, please read our . We remove comments which don't comply, and consider everyone forewarned. If you have feedback or commentary about how things are run here, please don't post it in this thread. We'll just remove it. We love to hear thoughtful, constructive feedback via however.
It can take time for , so we thank you for your patience. If you want to be reminded to come check back later, or simply find other great content to read while you wait, provides a guide to a number of ways to do so, including the RemindMeBot- - or.
Again though, please remember the rules, and keep them in mind while you browse. If you don't like how this subreddit is run, keep in mind that this method has seen us continue to succeed and grow for years, and isn't going to change, so at least try and make your complaint original. /r/AskHistory exists, so complaining about the rules to us is like going into a fancy restaurant to complain they don't sell chicken nuggets, even though Chick-fil-A is nextdoor.
I don’t see any answers posted here yet so I’m going to jump in and answer a bit. I’m sure there’re people who are more qualified than me who can provide you more info. I’m from China and I studied Middle Eastern studies in the Middle East and North America for my BA. However my current studies for MA is translations/interpreting.
I’m summarizing the articles written by the famous Chinese historian Yaoguang Ge from Fudan Univeristy, published in the academic journal by his own university: excerpts:
The original source is written in Chinese though. The title of the article is “Imagining the world - from the Perspectives of Portraits of Periodical Offerings.”.
Basically Chinese emperors had the traditions of employing artists to draw and paint the ambassadors whenever they came to China to meet the emperors and submit their offerings. These paintings were official documents and in a way you can see how people at the time perceived foreigners from different countries, and what the “official perspective” was. The earliest painting was from the 6th century by Emperor Yuan of Liang dynasty. The details in the painting pretty much match the descriptions of foreigners from the official records written during that period of time. People from 35 different countries were depicted in the painting. One interesting feature that Professor Ge points is, “the further the country the ambassador is from, the weirder he looks in the picture.” He deduces that people from China at the time had a good understanding of neighbouring countries already, such as Vietnam or Japan. However, people from further West or up North nomadic tribes were depicted as more barbarian and weird looking. One example was the people of Hua (an old country name, residing on the west of Qin. Their west borders reached as far as the later Persia.).
The same thing can be observed in the portrait from Song dynasty as well. People were very curious at the time about the far west, although Persia and Tang dynasty already had close contact through trading and the Silk Road. A lot of persians even settled in China and some obtained titles and ranks through the emperors. The Zoroastrian religion was introduced to China too, known as Xian Jiao 祆教. The generalized stereotype of Persians and even other foreigners from the Northwest was that they did not have any apparent social hierarchy system as prominent as in the Chinese culture. Rulers and civilians would sit and eat together, sharing a drink. Heavy drinking was observed more in foreign nomadic cultures. Also they would wear weird clothes. Their mannerisms seemed rude and uncivilized.