So the manager I spoke with flat out refused to refund me unless it was through that bank account I purchased it on. As I spent so much of my life savings on the machine I'm struggling to get the funds together to do something about this.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Title: Bought custom pc that doesn't work. Can't get refund because it was bought through ex-girlfriends not closed bank account...
if a refund goes to a closed bank account, the bank will then send a check to the account holder once its refunded, you will need to contact the bank to find out there exact policy o. how long it takes them to process such things. also pretty much all business will only refund to the original form of payment, you can try requesting a credit for the swap to purchase a whole new PC from them.
The problem is the closed account is under my EX girlfriends name, and they refuse to replace my machine. I have proof of my machine being defective since day one.
I requested that I send the defective machine back, and once they receive it to send me another identical machine. They refused and didn't give any way for me to remedy the situation.
Considering it has been defective since day one, does that still surprise you? It's covered under warranty which I paid extra for, so I would expect that since I've never got the product I intended to purchase. I would think I'm entitled to a refund, if not more for how much business I've lost this year as well as.
with all the new hardware that has came out I the last year and the weird part shortages, likely they didn't have the inventory to do a straight swap. it's your life, but i would contact them again and request a credit or them working with you to get it swapped for a similar machine, honestly shocked there even offering to do a refund this far after the original purchase date.
a warranty is not a extended return policy, not knowing there policy's I can't say exactly how they handled it but normally there would need to be seperate repairs for it to fall under a lemon policy. as far as your own personal lose of business, it sucks but unless something in your warranty policy has provisions for that there isn't much any retail compsny will do,, the agent your working with may put it in there internal notes on why did something out of policy.. as a aside have them and the independent shop you took it to been able to replicate the random shutdowns?
if you want to make a legal case put of this, that's on you but understand as soon as you bring that up with a customer rep, that's it any help you will get from there side is over.
I understand it's not an extended return policy, what I'm concerned about is the fact that I haven't received a working product. From day one I've had problems, and it's noted on their end that I've had problems, and both the independent shop and digital storm said they could replicate the issue. Digital storm claimed to have fixed the problem, the independent stated he couldn't determine the problem. The warranty didn't have provisions for this but it was stated in the order that this is a work machine and needed to be rock solid, yet here I am. Also I'm pretty sure they did not swap the components out that they stated to have swapped out as different techs tell me different things were swapped, and the GPU that was supposedly replaced has the same ID so it has to be the same one. Isn't that misleading?
Yeah I exaggerated a bit, just feels like a year with how much I've been through and the late nights I've been working on this thing. It's 4am right now and I have just finished reassembling it for the third time today. It worked fine for a month then started this again. I don't know what it is, but I can't keep sending it in for repairs I just don't have the time to wait for repairs constantly while also attempting my own because they didn't test it enough.