I say this as a prosecutor: 16 years is a pretty solid sentence to get without a trial. Trial is extremely traumatic for victims, and there's no guarantee that you get a guilty verdict. Your poor kiddo would have to relive the incident in front of a jury and her rapist, and then be cross-examined by the defense attorney. That would be literally hours up on a witness stand all by herself. Then there would possibly be evidence presented to try and shift blame onto her, as unbelievable as that sounds. (If you think a defendant wouldn't dare claim that an 8yo child was 'leading him on' or 'being provocative' you are, sadly, mistaken.).
I know 16 years doesn't sound like much when you're looking at the horrible nature of the crime against your daughter. But consider that rapists are FREQUENTLY not convicted at all or given more lenient sentences. (6 months for Brock Turner, who actually served only 3 months, as an example.) I sincerely recommend that you hear the DA out and give the plea offer your full consideration.
I definitely understand where you're coming from. Thanks for your response. Would his writing an apology letter and admitting everything in a pretext phone call change anything in your opinion?
The phone call would make a conviction at trial more likely, probably. But it does not reduce the trauma of testifying. I don't think I can stress enough how awful of an experience it is for victims, even if you think she'd be ok with it. We hate putting sex abuse victims, especially kids, on the stand.
Also, I strongly second what /u/rinky79 said about the trauma of having to testify. It should be an exceedingly important factor in what you tell the DA about your wishes here.
If anything, the letter would make a shorter sentence slightly more of a possibility. The phone call has the possibility to influence either way, depending on what he said.
First, you have to understand this is not ultimately your decision, but the DA's. It's nice that the DA is letting you have input, but you don't make the final call.
He will be eligible, yes. There's no guarantee he gets out the first time. Most experts, however, would agree that it's better for offenders to be on parole for a significant period rather than released without supervision after serving their full sentences. He will also be registered as a sex offender which will substantially limit his freedom.