In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Its an interesting question and a bit of a constitutional crisis. Luckily, the answer is mostly fully formed already, we simply have to follow it to its logical conclusion.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
More interesting is whether the same would work for a President-Elect in jail under a specific State's legal statutes. My guess is that the govenor of that state would fold and issue a pardon, but that is far from a certainty. At the very least the federal government has enough power to ensure a suspended sentence from the state in question.
Dumb question: we've had people run for President from prison before, but they had no chance of winning, so nobody cared. What happens if an imprisoned person were to win?
If one were to become President-Elect, this would mean that the DoJ would have to start going through the steps to ensure they could serve as President - including releasing them from prison. Whether they would get a suspended sentence during their term in office or a simple commutation of sentence is up for debate, but it likely wouldn't matter because their first act would likely be to pardon themselves- another constitutionally dubious act that would likely be upheld. That is assuming they were in prison for a federal crime.
Based on the current reading of the constitution, a reading supported by the DoJ, a sitting President is immune to any process of justice which would make doing the job of President impossible. This makes it Congress's responsibility to unseat a President so they may be properly prosecuted.
In any scenario I can put together, the President-Elect would be freed to carry out the duties of their office. There are some niche scenarios where it might be an issue, but they would bar him from taking office anyway.
Here's a different, slightly related question: what happens if a candidate barred from taking office wins an election (presumably through a write-in campaign)? How would the Supreme Court 'square the circle', so to speak. The assumption would be that they would reject the would-be President, but that would mean another general election, right? Or would they simply declare whoever took second place the winner?
If Trump started his own party to compete with the Republican Party “I would be soooo happy”. Not strong on my meme game but this would be glorious. Honestly, it’s the logical outcome of the division sown by the Tea Party that really pushed the republicans towards bonkers land and showing the world how neo-fascist they are.