The problem with history is that it's writing about humans, written by humans, for consumption by humans. And the problem with the human being is that they are a stupid, selfish, blinkered creature with far too limited a point of view and a whole bunch of biases and preconceptions.
It's all biased. All of it. But that is not a bad thing. u/mikedash examines , and u/Georgy_K_Zhukov does .
Thank you for your extremely detailed response! I am sorry I took a while to get back, but I genuinely wanted to read through all the links you tagged before I made any comment.
It was really helpful to read them all, and your response summarises them beautifully too. I know I didn't mention it in my question, but my way of thinking must have indicated that I am by no way a student of humanities. I always knew that different disciplines teach their students different ways to think, but it still blows me away that history students think this way.
Just as the scientific method exists to help how to science, there's a historical method that guides how to history. These posts expand on that:
While I admire this way of thinking, it is still hard to think that way myself. Again, it gives away my non-history background. History is a lot more scarier than I have known it to be. The "why's" of history seem to be so prone to change even when there can be general consensus about something. It tells me how complex humans are and how so many factors (I felt caught when I read about the Criterion of Embarassment and thought of all the lies I've said to cover up my own shortcomings) influence any historical account. It is scary, but so interesting at the same time. It makes me want to know more about as much as I can, now. Weirdly, History seems to be an intellectual form of gossip. I still notice a similarity between science and history, though. They are both subject to change as and when we discover more things about them, albeit history is more susceptible to change than science. I would have to shed my dependence on "hard truths" if I want to learn more in history.
The way of thinking definitely takes some adjusting if you're coming at it from a different background. For my part and my own field of study, I don't think I've actually reconciled to that mode just yet, instead taking refuge where I can point to concrete facts. (Hard for people to argue with you when you can point to archaeological evidence and city records.).
Your response also gave me a strange peace. I have a friend who fails to see my point of view in a certain historical matter, even though we have many commonalities in our perspectives. It always bothered me that he refused to look at things my way, and especially because he would sort of gaslight me into believing that I'm a bad person for thinking the way I do, and would claim that I'm demeaning his place because of my privilege. But I realise now that it would be impossible for him to see things the same way I do, because we don't have a common "hard truth". It is shaped by our own experiences. I feel like I understand more, and that I'm probably not a bad person for thinking the way I do.