Then as now, most Italians had dark eyes and hair. But there were always a few who had blond or red hair and light eyes. In fact, the cognomina (family names) of prominent Roman families included Flav(i)us (blond), Rufus (red), and Ahenobarbus (redbeard) - in each case, presumably, because some important ancestor had been distinguished by those characteristics. Roman biographers mention fair hair and eyes, but not as significant details. Suetonius, for example, notes that Nero had "light blond" hair and that his eyes were "blue and rather weak" (51). But he does not attach any importance to these facts.
The Romans knew, of course, that northern barbarians often had light eyes and hair. Thus Tacitus claims that all Germans have "fierce blue eyes, red hair, huge frames" (Germania 4). When he staged his sham triumph, Caligula went so far as to make the "captives" in his parade (actually men from Gaul) dye their hair red (Suetonius, Caligula 47).
They did (Pliny the Elder mentions its use to dye hair). There were other, more lasting herbal dyes, but I honestly don't know whether they would have more visibly reddened hair.
Blond hair in itself, however, carried no stigma. Roman women often wore blond wigs (made, or so it was claimed, from German hair). In one epigram, Martial claims that he is sending a courtesan a lock of hair from a German woman - so that she can see how much blonder her own wig is (5.68).
Tangentially related to this... can the origins of fair hair and lighter complexions as an idealized notion of beauty be traced all the way back to these ancient Roman trends?
I remember reading that Roman prostitutes would dye their hair red to signify their profession ( says it was blonde and required by law, but I don't know how reliable it is). Is this true and, if so, was their any stigma attached to natural redheads/blondes because of it?
Roman prostitutes often dyed their hair, but there was no law requiring them to do so. They were stigmatized by their clothing, not their hair color: since they were forbidden to wear the stola (the traditional dress of the respectable Roman matron), prostitutes were the only women to wear a version of the toga.