What part do you point to negligence? Having negative side effects from surgery isn’t negligence or is developing infections/complications.
Negligence would be something like operating on the wrong limb, deviating from standard of care, leaving instruments inside a patient etc.
You need a doctor to decide if those situations are beyond standard of care. There needs to be general damages for a lawsuit so no vitamin drops needs to cause irreparable harm.
I understand completely it's to specific and honestly I'm so damn flustered I don't even have all the facts ready to write out. We have spoken on the phone a lot since we can't be together and we're both just scared and tired of all this and more just wanted to know our options when we sit down to talk, which the previous reply laid out pretty clear as well as the possible repercussions of taking any action.
The specific parts that seemed off to me were them not giving him the vitamin k drops (which is standard after birth), sending her home with no antibiotics after a major surgery, sending her home with no high blood pressure medication when they kept her on it up till release, knowing off of it she was at dangerous levels and she wasn't able to be seen for a whole week after to be prescribed them, them not taking her pain/concerns about things not feeling right and hurting a lot more than normal (she had two c sections before) being taken seriously only for it to actually turn out to be an issue.
First focus should be getti g everyone healthy, but that doesn't mean you don't do anything, start keeping a log of who tells you what when, there advocates at every hospital that you can escalate to if you have worries - you should do so - get a time line of events for your partner and a seperate one for your son and go over it with the advocate. Don't be afraid to ask for a second opinion. Second, once everyone is stable then evaluate malpractice. Part of malpractice is damages - you don't know all (any) damages yet as both your partner and baby are recovering still.