>The MAK report found the "immediate cause" of the accident was the failure of the crew to make a timely decision to proceed to an alternate airport despite being warned multiple times of the poor weather conditions at Smolensk.[10] Another immediate cause was the descent below minimums without visual contact with the ground as well as ignoring numerous TAWS warnings.[10] This led to controlled flight into terrain.[10].
So? Can you not read? I am just saying that that is the basis as to why they made that declaration. Where did I say it is a fact?
Pretty much. The support for the bill was unanimous until.. Macierewicz came out and added Smoleńsk to the mix. Causing drama on purpose, I guess - helps paint in propaganda opposition=bad, as this bullshit forces them to vote against a bill that russia is a terrorist state OR acknowledge conspiracy theory.
is Russia capable of doing something like this? why yes, of course. they've shot down planes and they'll do it again. But that doesn't mean that every air disaster that they benefit from was actually done by them.
i remembered reading at the time and concluding that it was a combination of the weather conditions and pilot error.
important to focus on what bad Russia \actually\ has done, and not cry wolf for what they didn't do...
The irony of it all is that Macierewicz, who put into the bill this amendment "russia did 9/11 smoleńsk crash" - not only peddles this conspiracy theory for years (he changed the version a few times too, but tl;dr is that the plane was blown up by russians who installed a bomb onboard instead of crashing), but himself is suspected by many to be a russian asset.
Including how he dismantled polish military intelligence WSI under the guise of decommunization (yet nobody working at WSI got any charges) putting polish soldiers at risk as we were at the time in Afghanistan/Iraq. And did it with russian spies/influencers in his closest team (one of them was arrested by polish "homeland security" (ABW) on espionage charges not so long ago).
Or the time he broke into a NATO counter-intelligence facility.. and still was not removed for that.
Or the time he cancelled the deal for 50 Caracal helicopters in 2016, which was signed&done at this point (polish gov paid some hefty penalty for that). Instead he promised 50-70 new helicopters by 2017, by 2020 we got.. four. Only now, under min. Błaszczak, who after start of war in Ukraine went on a shopping spree - a deal was signed for 32 AW149 helicopters.
I guess there is no better cover for being an asset than to publicly shout how you hate russia, while all your actual actions are helping them.
i feel that it also undermines the bill for it to include an accusation that Russia did something that (this time) they didn't actually do.
so since they're innocent of the plane crash, its harder to take the condemnation against Russia for sponsoring terrorism (which they are guilty of) seriously.
i should try to find the report... it might be a fair criticism that they should have closed down... then again idk what political pressure there was on them from both Russia and Poland to keep it open. (due to the relatively short distances one would think that even if the weather was bad for a large area, that there were divert options... although probably all of them would have led to event cancellation... which isn't a tower concern until you have two governments telling you to let them land .
Uh, no polish reports stated pretty much the same theory for over a decade now based on the debris and the communication. That clearly point fingers at Russia and not pilot error.
Since im neither a Russian speaker nor a aviation expert I can't verify any of it, but official reports state it that way.
The official report did not say that. The first polish report (so-called "Miller's report") pointed out to several human errors that cumulated in creating this situation, leading to the crash. Then PiS came to power some time later and their team in 2016 (led by Antoni Macierewicz, the main conspiracy theorist about Smoleńsk) made their own report, with blackjack and hookers! And in this report they put the fault on russia and hint this was an assassination.
Technically it is official report, in that you are right. It is also bullshit, was disproven by every other report including the first official report, cherrypicks its own research or outright lies. (an example was expertise from National Institute for Aviation Research in USA, that Macierewicz touted as proving his report.. . It is considered a joke report by most sane people.
Edit: after below post I added clarification that Miller's report is a polish report, just to be clear. Macierewicz is trying to uproot the official polish investigation and it's results and replace them with his conspiracies. His 'fight' is not russian version of events vs polish version, it is polish version vs his version.
Theory, not the report. Macierewicz was pushing his conspiracy since the very beginning. But it was not until PiS came to power that he had actual tools to make his bullshit official.
But it seems you are too preoccupied with one idea having to be wrong to critically assess alternatives. Considering one side to be always right can be dangerous.
There were way too many flaws in the Russian report to overlook the possibility that they were involved. Of course it could just be that they don't have the appropriate training to do it properly.
The more "official" the polish version gets the more serious others have to take it and properly asses it, maybe it'll hold up. Or maybe its just their tool for domestic support.
Because I spent last 12 years with all the ideas and alternatives. I am Polish and live in Poland, since 2010 we are all soaking wet with Smoleńsk info and all the things around that. The assault of information, misinformation and conspiracy theories is never ending and it lasts for so long now that believe me - I had multiple times to assess all of this.
And giving any credibility to Macierewicz is similar to saying "maybe you didn't critically assess the alternatives to round earth theory, maybe it really is flat. Considering one side to be always right can be dangerous.". Or giving credibility to Alex Jones.
Macierewicz is trying to uproot the official polish investigation and it's results and replace them with his conspiracies. His 'fight' is not russian version of events vs polish version, it is polish version vs his version.
There is and was for many years official polish version, see above comment - Miller's report, made by a polish commission in 2011. It just shows how effective PiS is at disseminating their conspiracy bullshit, that foreigners on reddit just assume Macierewicz' work is the polish report and only polish report. The more "official" Macierewicz version becomes, the more muddied the waters are and the closer to insanity we get. Just to take it to a logical conclusion - if we assume the conspiracy theory as truth - Poland should invoke Article 5 against Russia already. After all - if he believes Russia planted a bomb killing polish president and 95 other people, this is a major attack against us. Imagine what USA would do if Air Force One crashed and official version would become "it was a bomb planted by country X". Country X would be up to eyeballs in Marines.