In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I wish there was enough media attention on this to have had him included in the deal for Griner -- an arms dealer would surely be worth two low-level marijuana offenders? As it is, I hope we have something else Putin wants in exchange. This guy can't be left to wither in a foreign prison.
Yes, all these people are being unjustly imprisoned, but they’ve also done something completely preventable in the most stupid way possible.
But at the same time, (and I’m a daily weed smoker myself), to bring HALF AN OUNCE of weed to a place that’s in a fundamental proxy war with the United States that has a justice system equal to a kangaroo court, how stupid do you have to be?
That said, the sentence is outrageous, and it's on the US government to protect our own from injustices abroad. I hope a deal can be made here.
Agreed. I'm also a daily smoker and I get sketched out enough just going across state lines holding -- no way in fuck would I travel internationally with half an ounce. A prescription doesn't make it legal in a country that doesn't recognize that prescription.
Brittney had a few cartridge's at the bottom of a duffle bag, that could've conceivable been forgotten. My man hid actual grass in things like contact cases. He was an idiot.
As with Griner, this was a stupid thing to do. That it's illegal at all is ludicrous, but it turns out traveling to another country with harsh laws with illegal material is a bad idea.
This man's brother is a teacher from Pennsylvania who teaches history to children of US consulate and embassy staff. He made the mistake of bringing half an ounce of medically prescribed marijuana when traveling to Russia for work last August, and has been detained since.
That said, nobody deserves this kind of treatment for marijuana -- let alone when using it as medicine for chronic pain -- and it's on our government to get this man home.
I don't have high hopes, seeing as "history teacher to embassy kids" doesn't have nearly the headline-pulling strenh as a WNBA player, and this kind of stuff tends to rely on public pressure pushing progress. I'd love to be proven wrong, though. This guy isn't a criminal, 14 years in a foreign prison at the tail end of his life is atrocious. I hope he's able to get back to his family and get work in safer places moving forward.
For the record, he's not my brother. I didn't write this article. But yes, Biden should do whatever's in his power to bring Marc home.