Sorry, but this response has been removed because we of users to form the basis of a response. While they can sometimes be quite interesting, the medium and anonymity of this forum does not allow for them to be properly contextualized, nor the source vetted or contextualized. A more thorough explanation for the reasoning behind this rule can be found in . For users who are interested in this more personal type of answer, we would suggest you consider /r/AskReddit.
I only stayed on this sub and pursued to be a part of its community because of the moderation team. I feel like I can actually take my time, go back to my books, catch up on my reading, then come up with a lenhy answer. It will have value. It feels safe to do it here. It really helps not to feel under pressure, forced to compete for upvotes while being drowned amid poor or shortsighted answers. Thanks to the moderation team, I feel that my "work" as a historian is worth to spend time on (even if I only get a couple upvotes). I wouldn't do it otherwise. It'd be too stressful...
Sometimes I wish there was a way to discuss questions and answers in a less formal way. Obviously I wouldn't want it to be in the threads here, I love the way you run things. But it would be nice if there was like, another sub, where people could discuss stuff they read on this sub. Especially with all the unprecedented things going on in the world right now, there's been a few times where we were talking about something 30-40 years ago and I'm just itching to ask about how it relates to/impacts things happening now, which of course would be inappropriate here.
One dream I've always had is to have something like /r/AskHistoriansDiscussion (or casual, meta, etc), where people can discuss the question without having to worry about providing an answer. Perhaps it would become just bad answers, but it would be interesting to be able to discuss the questions as if this were a less-moderated subreddit.
Orrrr...perhaps there could be a question that the OP knows ahead of time will not have moderated comments. Then the mods could point to the shitshow on that post to demonstrate why they need to moderate so strictly lol.
Haha u/Gankom makes many wives happy then. Mine too knows everything about my AH adventures And she's most happy about it for how happy it makes me ^^.