I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
So the lawsuit will need to be refiled in my current county in a different state? I have been living here for exactly 4 months. Have my name on my apartment lease/utilities etc, but my license, car registration etc is still in the old state, where they filed.
Rules of civil procedure, and the fdcpa both say that you have to be served in the county and state where you reside.
These rules are to prevent " forum shopping " and filing suits in locations that a defendant is unable to reasonably attend.
The decent thing is to pay what you owe and/or try to reach a payment arrangement or discount. They could try to find you and when your records get updated they'll do so in your new residence. A smart collector won't have a hard time finding you.
Okay, that's what I thought. I was a little confused though because I had read something about it needing to be filed "in the county of current residence OR the county where the paperwork for the original account was signed", and the account was opened/signed in the county that they filed in.
I'm not trying to hide, I'm trying to prepare for where this will take place (as the laws differ quite a lot), in the original state where I used to live (where it was filed), or if they will end up refiling in my current state. I've been living in TX for 4 months, but I was living in OK when the account in question was opened. Not sure if they will refile in TX once they're aware of my residence, or if it will just resume in OK. I'm assuming the latter, but I don't know. If I was trying to hide from this or not deal with this, then I wouldn't care either way.
So I guess I will need to wait until they refile and serve me here to do anything. They can't proceed with anything until I've been served right?