It wasn't about "surrender talks" and all that — the US were demanding an unconditional surrender, which means no negotiations, and that could be conveyed in a sentence or two. The Japanese were perfectly capable of putting that out (and they didn't need to translate it; both they and the US had plenty of English–Japanese translators). Yes, you later have to sign formal documents. But if the Japanese had wanted to they could have acceded to Allied demands quite quickly. (This is what they did on August 15th, 1945, even though the formal surrender wasn't until September 2nd.).
So that's around 10pm Japanese time. The next morning (August 7th), the Japanese high command meet about this and agree that before they factor this into their thinking, they need to send a team to confirm this claim by the Americans, because it's a big claim and World War II is _full_ of exaggerated state propaganda about new weapons. Even the most die-hard defender of the atomic bombings would agree that if you are going to decide to surrender on the basis of a new weapon _you should confirm the weapon is real_ before you do so.
The announcement from the White House that it was an atomic bomb was not released for _16 hours_ (as the announcement itself says). There is, by the way, no real understanding of why the delay was so long — General Groves later claimed in his memoirs that he couldn't figure it out, anyway, because it wasn't what was intended.
It takes until the evening of August 8th for them to communicate a report back to Tokyo: "What I've seen so far is unspeakable. Tens of thousands dead. Bodies piled up everywhere. Sick, wounded, naked people wandering around in a daze .... Almost no buildings left standing. I'm very sorry to tell you this ... the so-called new-type bomb is actually an atomic bomb.".
So yeah, it isn't really a reasonable amount of time. Even one day more would not have been a reasonable amount of time for real deliberation about the fate of the nation. (It is not clear, as an aside, that the bombing of Nagasaki had much impact on the deliberations of August 9th. So most historians think it was probably unnecessary in a strict sense — you would have gotten the same result without it. On August 10th, the Japanese offered a _conditional_ surrender to the US, which was rejected. On August 15th, after several other events, they finally agreed to an _unconditional_ surrender.).
But here's the thing. It wasn't meant to be a reasonable amount of time. The US never planned it as, "we'll drop one bomb, and if they don't surrender, we'll drop another." There was meant to be a week between the two bombings, but that was just a matter of expected schedule. The schedule got changed for very non-strategic reasons: the weather conditions. The people on Tinian had no belief that one bomb or two bombs was going to end the war; the people who made the bombs (notably General Groves) thought it might take 5 bombs or so before the Japanese surrendered. Truman had _zero_ input onto whether a second bomb would be dropped, and as far as I can tell, _was not even told that it would be_. The strike order had a lot of detail about the use of the _first_ bomb, and then essentially said, "you can drop as many as you have available after that at your discretion.".
Which is just to say that the idea that they dropped one bomb, then waited to see what happened, then ruefully said, "I guess we have to drop another one"... this is totally false. They were dropping as many bombs as they could according to the time it took them to assemble them and according to the forecast weather visibility on Japan. It was not very "strategic" on any level (except one: the first bombing was supposed to take place after August 3rd, because it needed to happen once the US was no longer at the Potsdam Conference with the Soviets, and Truman was _hoping_ that maybe the Soviet plans for declaring war would be thrown off if the Japanese did, by chance, surrender earlier than expected). Only afterwards, when Japan surrendered, did that entire narrative get rewritten as being a strategic gambit in which it was clear that one or two bombs might end the war. But that wasn't how they thought of it at the time.
The bomb was dropped on the morning of August 6th. The attack was devastating to Hiroshima and its communication lines, though help was sent in quickly from nearby cities. The high command was aware that Hiroshima had been attacked — _but they did not know it was an atomic bomb_. Everyone assumed it was just another large conventional attack of some sort. Such attacks were happening _routinely_ by the summer of 1945 and people had been expecting that one would come to Hiroshima at some point (its neighbor, Kure, had suffered a firebombing raid in early July that had destroyed 40% of the city, and citizens of Hiroshima had participated in the relief effort).
So they get a team of scientists together from Kyoto and Tokyo (the same scientists who had been working on Japan's tiny nuclear program), and send them to Hiroshima. It takes them some time to get there due to wartime disruptions, and then they have to make various observations about the damage at Hiroshima, take measurements and samples, observe radioactivity levels, etc.
They did not warn the civilians beforehand about an atomic bombing. They did not tell the Japanese they had an atomic bomb before hand. The idea that they were warned is 100% a myth, one that has seen a lot of traction thanks to the Internet, but is nonetheless, 100% a myth. about all of the iterations of this that are possible. (This is, in my opinion, the 1 most-indefensible-yet-commonly-believed-and-frequently-repeated myth about the atomic bombings. There are many positions one can have on the necessity and morality of the bombings, but don't base such thoughts on myths, please.).
Anyway, you seem like a well informed fellow and it has been educational to read about the myth of the “warnings”.
The Japanese Supreme War Council agree to meet on this the next morning (August 9th). _By this point_ the second bombing mission _has already begun_. And overnight the Soviet Union will declare war and invade Manchuria, complicating matters even more.
The goal, decided in the spring of 1945, was to have the first use of the atomic bomb be a total surprise in order to maximize the psychological impact on the Japanese. It was _explicitly_ a goal not to warn them about the atomic bomb. The idea was considered and explicitly rejected. (This is one of the many reasons I find this myth so annoying — they were pretty clear about how much they did NOT want to warn them It was not a subtle thing).
Yeah I was always told that the second example was dropped on Hiroshima and I thought it was a “nice” little warning, like all history there’s always more nuance then the common narrative.
From everything I read about Japanese agricultural output that would be incredibly effective and cost a tiny amount of American lives .
Without wanting to endlessly self-cite, here is I've written which is about what alternatives were actually on the table. The point of this is not to argue that the bombs were or weren't justified. It's just to emphasize that _choices were made_. In any event "bomb vs. invade" was not the choice they went with — they went with "bomb _and_ invade," and were actually surprised that the war ended as quickly as it did.
The idea that the only options being considered were "bomb vs. invade" is... yet another myth! As you can see, there are a lot of myths have been mobilized in how people (esp. Americans) view the atomic bombings, all with the design of making you conclude (as you do) that they were "of course" justified. Once you get into the "bomb vs. invade" framework, it becomes nearly impossible to conclude that anything but bombing was a good idea. This particular framework was invented in the postwar period in order to counter the growing critique — including from the military — of the use of the atomic bombs during World War II.
Sorry, I should have phrased it better but in “light” history that’s the only two options that seem to be discussed, I don’t know why the idea to blockade and starve the Japanese isn’t more widely discussed.
And I’ll put my hand up and admit that my knowledge of World War Two is more based on the eastern front and I don’t know an awful lot about the Asian conflict, but I was under the impression the war council basically came to a split decision when it came to surrendering and the military almost staged (another?) coup.