I’d prefer the US stay out of it, but I don’t see any way around it. And I do think the US could help a lot, the problem is the particulars to do so are so incredibly complex, and it would be such a long and heavy lift, that I don’t think the willingness and especially the patience will ever be there. The lessons of Iraq and Afghanistan just won’t be applied.
Probably going to need to negotiate with the gangs, as distasteful as that is. Something along the lines of granting a general amnesty in exchange for them disarming. Because trying to crush them by force is only going to make it even worse.
The DR already stops them with machine guns, as does Jamacia, Cuba and the Bahamas. If three million Haitians drop into Puerto Rico, they will declare a state of emergency, enact martial law and put them all into concentration camps or lynch them in the streets. The political situation would take a hard right turn and the American right would have a blank check for war. If any Haitian floatillas make it to Florida, martial law comes home as democracy would be suspended until they are all put in camps or deported home. The only country willing to accept them is Mexico, where cartels use them as slave labor. Even then, Mexico would have a military operation if they land in Yucatan, as cartels operate further to the west in Tamaulipas.
If Haiti full on collapses then the USA is going to be taking in the brunt of millions of Haitians, so the options the way I see it are to take part in nation building, take in millions of migrants or put machine guns at every border.
Haiti needs help righting their ship. I don't know if it is military or something else but help is desperately needed to end the anarchy in the streets.
There's only violent answers from here on out. If any large groupings of migrants push into other countries, machine guns will happen and people will die.
Chances for this by the US or France are slim as America doesn't have enough infantry for a Peacekeeping occupation while France would be crippled by peace demos opposing Imperialism. At this point it's Mexico. Mexico has enough soldiers for an extended peacekeeping occupation and they have a vested interest in stopping the slave breeding pen that cartels exploit. Mexico especially has a vested interest in giving Haitian women contraceptives and family planning because it stops the immigration flow causing trouble domestically. However, this invites another problem: Mexicans would treat all Haitans as military targets, and the occupation of Haiti woiuld be a fascist, authoritarian regime managed through violence. The west is too divided for such a hard right turn.