You need to be provided reasonable accommodations if your licensed medical professional provides a recommendation for an ESA. Things like leashes and feces would still be applicable, as would removing them if they were disruptive.
Yes you need to get it approved as an ESA before moving it into the unit. Until it's approved, it's a pet.
It is unsurprising that the association might include rules for dogs and disallow them for this very reason. They probably can't refuse the ESA. They can have rules about your cleaning up after it.
That's not all that surprising. For community managers, if you've done the job for a while, you're bound to come across it and then receive an education from your client's attorney. If your management company pays for education, then you'll probably learn about it within the first 2 or so years. But if it is not common in your area, and you are not taking education through CAI or a state specific program, there is no mechanism to ensure that a community manager would know how to deal with an ESA.
If your practitioner has recommended an ESA you should complete the association's process for requesting an accommodation for your ESA.
...there is no written process for how to request any kind of accommodation, ESA or otherwise. And to top, it all of, it sounds like the property manager who has been assigned to the property has no clue what an ESA is...
Review your CC&Rs. That may have additional restrictions regarding dogs. Also request copies of any notices, policies, or minutes showing a prohibition against dogs in the HOA.
You should ask your therapist to provide you with a dated letter explaining that as part of your treatment for a medical condition, the therapist is recommending or directing you to get a dog. Keep that letter in your files, and when you adopt a dog, make sure that you keep the adoption records so that you can show a clear time line of you receiving the recommendation and then acting on it.
If there is some sort of restriction, send your HOA a written request for an "Accommodation for my disability". In your request, advise them that your health professional has directed you to obtain a therapy dog, and that you will be obtaining and housing that animal immediately. Request that they provide a written variance from any rule preventing you from maintaining that animal in your residence and in the common areas of the association.
If the HOA attempts to enforce a pet policy and attempts to fine you or take other action for the mere ownership of the dog, contact an attorney that works with Fair Housing issues. it may cost a few hundred bucks, but a letter from your attorney will likely end it. Of not, the attorney will help you with legal action, and will likely be able to have the association pay for your legal fees (depending on your state, I assume).
I already requested the information regarding policies when I found out about the apparent "no dogs" rule, and nothing that was sent to me mentions the word "dog".
I checked in again with the property manager, and she said she thinks the reason why dogs are not permitted is that it's not a "dog-friendly area." I live in a VERY suburban neighborhood, and there are dogs everywhere. I'm very, very confused by the comment. She also does not appear to know the difference between a pet and a therapy animal. I offered to have my therapist write a letter explaining the situation, and she has not commented on it.
It is becoming very apparent that neither the HoA nor the property managing company that was hired, know what they are doing. I might just go ahead with the adoption process, and if they have an issue with the dog after I get him, I'll figure it out afterward.
Your therapy animal, as directed by your healthcare professional, is not subject to blanket restrictions (assuming they even exist anywhere). Your request for an accommodation for your disability is merely a courtesy to the HOA. Just make sure you keep all documentation and follow your therapist's advice to the letter in case you have to get an attorney to deal with your HOA.