I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I see were the user got their math from, but I disagree with it. Someone cannot just unilaterally pick a TV over silverware, and everything was purchased with the intent of it being in the apartment for the duration of the lease. If he still lived there he couldn't just give the TV to a girl and tell you that he only owed you half of "cost of TV minus cost of silverware." He has no right to do either thing.
This is why you don't buy joint stuff with someone else. In the future dont do it. All it does is cause problems. And if you DO do this again, have a signed agreement of what will happen if a roommate moves out early (say... the goods stay in the unit and the roommate who is staying will pay the roommate who is leaving back their share) and when the roommate relationship is terminated. Protects both of you and gives a guideline for how shit is to be handled.
Ideally, don't split major purchases with anyone you are not married to. You may think you'll be together forever, but you also thought your good friend would live with you for a year.
Ideally, don't split major purchases with anyone you are not married to. You may think you'll be together forever, but you also thought your good friend would live with you for a year.
Are you sure a judge would see it that way? These were conditional purchases that were to be jointly owned and kept in the apartment. Suppose the roommate didn't move out, but gave the TV away to some girl. He couldn't do that, and say "I'll pay you $57.50 because you still have half the silverware here." Or worse still, tell him that his TV interest has converted to a silverware interest, unilaterally. He has no right to violate their agreement in that manner, nor to unilaterally convert ownership of these separate items. Sure, we're just talking about a few bucks here, but the principle is the same. If you and I live together, and agree to spend $16,000 on a home theater system for our tenure, and do $16,000 in landscaping, I can't just unilaterally remove the home theater system from the house and tell you that it's fair and legal because you have the garden. No judge is going to side with me over you, you're going to win that 10 times out of 10.