The Pirates of the Caribbean is set around the mid 1700's. The Black Pearl's gun load was/is 32 cannon. Now, the Pearl originally started out as a merchant ship, and the ship's design was based on that of the Galleon with some features of an East Indiaman. Galleons were large and expensive vessels for the time, and the first of them were built around mid 1500's, and the ship type continued to be built well into the 1800's. The fastest usually did not exceed 10 knots. There were some very famous Galleons - the Golden Hind (22 guns) was one of these, and an interesting replica of the Hind can be seen docked in London, England. At some point the Pearl was converted to a pirate vessel. The lack of cargo and the additional sails would mean she would be faster than your average laden merchantman of the time. Possibly as fast as some of the English warships also depicted in the movie. The fictional (& supernatural ) speed of the Pearl would obviously not be reflected in real life. Now a converted merchantman is one thing, however by the mid 18th Century - and in real life - the Navy's of the world had moved on and were using a number of dedicated naval designs. For speed, probably the most popular would be the Frigate - a fine example of a frigate would be the USS Constitution (1797), and capable of 14 knots on a good day. So, if one were looking for an example of a fast Frigate easily capable of matching or exceeding the realistic speed of the Pearl, then that might be HMS Endymion (1797), a 40 gun ship, again capable of 14 knots, the design of which was copied and modified from a captured French Frigate - the Pomone. As a slightly different example, the Cutty Sark, a famous clipper ship, was recorded as being able to achieve 17 knots. Hope all this helps?
I share your feeling. When I post comments on these questions I'm painfully aware that there's always someone who knows more, and is waiting patiently to broadside me into oblivion. ).
I read most of that, and it seems to support my simplified explanation. Max ship speed was primarily improved by reducing drag (copper plating reduced marine growth) and by new hull shapes. They also improved transit times by changing routes to find favorable winds and currents.
Ship speed is largely dependent on lenh (for displacement hills). Adding more sail rarely adds more speed to a ship that was reasonably outfitted previously. The masts and stays get MUCH more loading to reach even a half knot more than the natural hull speed. It’s unlikely that conversion to a pirate ship would do much to quicken the black pearl.
Refitting an older ship with a larger sail plan still wouldn't increase your max speed significantly, though one could argue it would be a bit faster in light winds. The reason displacement hulls are limited by their lenh has to do with the way they create a wake, the shortest explanation is that they create a bow wave that they'd need to climb over before speed could increase and it takes TONS of power to climb over that wave (essentially getting up on a plane). There are exceptions for unusual shapes (long thin hulls, etc), but an 18th century galleon would not fall into any of those exceptions.
Edit: in essence, if I understood you correctly, does that mean that only large navies such as the French and the British could afford to produce that particular style of ship? And if the Pearl was turned into a pirate vessel was it impractical to have that many cannons installed? What was the average number of cannons?
The primary purpose of a pirate vessel was to overhaul and seize cargo ships. Fights with larger naval vessels were to be avoided if at all possible (makes sense, right?). Therefore, for the most part, to stop - and yet not sink - a merchantman, the primary loads would not necessarily be large shot. More likely the load would be such that damage would be caused to masts and crew, so they tended to load bar & chain, and grape, in preference to round shot. To cause a merchantman captain to surrender, or to disable the ship, did not require that many cannon, so the Pearl's load of 32 would be considered excessive - in terms of effect , weight and cost. Cannon were not cheap, nor was the cost of shot and powder insignificant - especially in such relatively remote areas as the Caribbean. Of course, there are always counter examples - the Queen Anne's Revenge was Blackbeard's ship. An ex French navy ship, she had 30+ cannon. As for the particular style of ship, the frigate design was optimised as a warship, so only countries with navies tended to produce them, and only the countries with the money and infrastructure to do so would have produced them.