There's nothing criminal here. Police won't do anything, it's just a civil situation. You aren't asking for anything unreasonable, they are trying to intimidate you. And what you are asking for is 1) Reasonable, 2) Justified, and 3) A lot cheaper than taking you to court, which is why they resorted to police threats.
My advice would be have a camera if you can, and just don't be there Saturday. Bonus points if you have a neighbor or something similar to watch them just in case.
Edit for disclaimer: I am a lawyer, but I am not your lawyer. This post should not be considered legal advice or as a substitute for actual legal advice from an attorney licensed in your jurisdiction. If you are legitimately concerned about your situation, consult a local attorney.
As an attorney who also worked retail for a big box chain competing with Home Depot specifically in the appliance market (OK, it was Best Buy), I can confirm that no crime has been committed and it would be idiotic to escalate the issue to the level of police involvement. If anything, they have committed theft of services by failing to install the appliance despite being paid to perform the installation.
The police are unlikely to engage this issue, as it is a dispute over a retail transaction, not a crime, full stop. I would be shocked if you end up dealing with cops (likely an intimidation tactic as above poster said), but if you do...be extremely polite and calmly explain the situation. Make it clear to the officer(s) what you need to resolve your side of the dispute; don't get hung up in the details and backstory or on assigning blame, they will not care.
You have done nothing wrong and have nothing to worry about beyond the hassle of dealing with Home Depot coming in to correct their mistake.
Would it not make more sense to simply decline talking to the police, and tell them they do not have permission to enter your home?
Sure, that is always an option. I meant that in the unlikely case that the police show up or call via phone, perhaps looking for an amusing anecdote about the ludicrous disputes people think are law enforcement business, and that OP wants to talk to them, the best thing to do is be polite and to the point. Declining to talk to police prior to consulting or retaining counsel is recommended if there is any concern about criminal liability, but it does not sound like that is the case here assuming OP's story is accurate.