Not a lawyer, but as to the purse and bracelet those are gifts he has no claim. As to the condo, did you sign anything? If you didn't and he just out your name down I don't think the courts would hold you responsible for that, you can ask the court to remove your name especially if you didn't sign anything. As for wedding cost generally in US they spilt the coat of the wedding, so they would take into account the 10 k you spent and what he spent on the wedding (minus the condo). If it's about the same he probably won't get anything for it. I'd see if I could get a consultant with a lawyer to see if he really has a case where you live. He may just be blowing smoke to get you to come back to him.
Oh dear I just saw the document. He put me under purchaser and lied and said I was working as an executive. Lesson learnt - never sign anything just based on trust I guess . Thanks for taking time out to reply to me btw.
I signed the option to purchase I think! . the thing is my brother is friends with him and advised him not to put my name down as I have no income. And my ex is a realtor by the way.
Get yourself a lawyer, this is illegal. Call police and report the fraud then call the company to report the false info. You still may get out of paying if you can prove that he filled out the info with out your knowledge. He could lose his job because this is a violation of ethics.
If you signed something the company you signed with would have copies you can request those to see exactly what you signed, you don't have to go through him to get it. Of he just put your name down you shouldn't be held liable.
OP, most people here are from the US with some from Canada and the EU. There may be other Singaporeans here, but I'd be surprised if this sub had Singaporean lawyers reading it. You shouldn't take legal advice about your situation in Singapore from people who aren't familiar with Singaporean law, as there's a significant chance that they're wrong and misguiding you. Just something to keep in mind. In particular, if someone says "In the US...", you may want to disregard the rest of what that person says as it has no relevance whatsoever to your situation.