If a recession happens ad rev companies like goog and meta will be hit hard. Obviously it will be on sale since it prints money but ad revenue drops hard when people aren’t buying anyway.
To be brutally honest, i think false valuations like that go beyond just the big inflated tech companies and are rather a larger problem of our current investment system that are unlikely to be ever fixed.
Like a lot of other publically traded companies and their supposedly billionaire owners. That's why I always roll my eyes when I hear about people wanting to tax billionaires, as if you can tax a stock market valuation that fluctuates daily.
The addition of the loans takes into account how I roughly understand the mega wealthy function for day to day expenses. They take out loans against owned stock and live off of that vs selling stock to make ends meet. The money normal people use to meet day to day expenses is taxed so theirs should be as well.
Taking out loans against stock still means the stock will eventually be sold to pay back the loan. I admit I don't have first hand knowledge of how billionaires and banks structure deals like that, but I doubt banks are just loaning people like Elon Musk billions of dollars and then never collecting.
The SEC actually uploads what transactions insiders (meaning owners, CEOs etc.) of public companies make with the shares of those companies, because that information is important to all the other shareholders. You can see Musk's SEC page here:
I agree. That would be very difficult. What if after a certain point you were taxed on personal wealth as calculated on 31 December of each year plus loans taken out? Gaming the system would require tanking the value of their stocks on purpose with the hope of fixing them again after the new year.
He's been selling billions of dollars of Tesla stock over the last year, and he owes tax on any profit from those sales. Taxing the value of unsold shares would destroy the stock market as we know it, because a lot of owners would be forced to sell shares of their companies every year just to pay the taxes on money they never actually had. Not to mention that some smaller companies can see 100% spikes in their valutation in literally a single day and then go back to their previous value the day after that. Now imagine if that spike occurred on whatever day is picked to calculate net worth and some owner of a smaller company has to pay tax on the temporarily inflated value of his shares. That's just one example of how taxing stock value as opposed to stock profit would create many more problems than it solves (if it can even be said to solve anything).
Billionaires are already taxed the same way, because they have to pay a capital gains tax every time they sell their stocks for profit, which is the equivalent to RMD withdrawing. The only difference is they're not forced to sell a certain amount every year like in the RMD example.
Yeah, that's what my point was. I'm rolling my eyes at the people who want to tax Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk on the value of their Amazon and Tesla shares.
If you can't see the difference between people being forced to withdraw from their retirement plan when they reach retirement age and people being forced to transfer ownership of their own companies against their will by selling shares, then I don't think there's a point in having this conversation.