A parent is not obligated to leave an inheritance to an adult non disabled child in most US states — LA is one exception.
I do not know how one can bring up an inheritance without sounding like they are waiting for the person to die or that the only reason they are in touch is for money.
If paternity was established, he paid child support and has acknowledged you as his daughter, what is your question regarding if your “status” depends on NC or MA law?
With respect to your “rights to any inheritance”, that question depends. Your rights to an inheritance will depend on the state that your father was a resident at the time his death and whether he has a valid will at the time of his death.
There are children born in wedlock who can be excluded from inheritance through a valid will. Many states allow for a decedent’s will to become public once it has been filed with the clerk of the court.
If your father dies without a will, the state’s intestate succession laws will prevail (including whether he has a wife, marital/joint accounts/property, accounts that have beneficiaries, etc.).
Thank you for sharing the relevant statues. It is informative. I would like to know how paternity was “determined”/established about 40 years ago without the advances of DNA testing. I imagine through blood typing and an agreement between the parties? Please advise and educate. I’m eager to learn as I know of paternity DNA testing around 1988.
Your question about the best way to have a conversation about your “rights to any inheritance” with your dad is not easily answered in this subreddit.
NC has a different law with children born outside of marriage — there is a difference there between paternity and legitimization in terms of inheritance in case a person died intestate in NC.
Would there have been a change to the Birth Certificate prior to that time? Unfortunately, I do not have these answers and have not yet reviewed the law; however, your insight and knowledge is appreciated by myself and possibly other redditors seeking information and clarification.