India is one of the closest major partners of Russia. Most of India’s military is made up of Russian exports, and India runs a big trade deficit against Russia. And just generally, Russia wouldn’t want to lose such a major country as a close partner.
So the influence is kind of essentially just a trade/monetary thing, I guess it makes sense given other trade restrictions and sanctions against Russia that if more countries lessen their trade it shifts to a war of attrition and that could lead to people within Russia opposing it internally and completing the US's goal. Although I feel that would still be years out and an oversight of the US given how expeditious it aims to be with military functionality at times.
The US actively tried to intimidate India via nukes when it was trying to stop the Bangladeshi genocide by invading east Pakistan.
Alot history including the non-alignment movement and how Pakistan was a major US ally up until Osama Bin Laden Fiasco makes up good, legitemate reasons to hate the US.
Pakistan was the US bulwark against Soviet influence in the region. India needs to grow the fuck up. Japan was a major ally to the US 20 years after we literally dropped atomic bombs on them. We no longer live in the geopolitical environment where all of this took place, and Indian policy needs to evolve beyond decades old grudges that was several US administrations ago. Military assistance to Pakistan has completely stopped and humanitarian aid was cut by over half in the past 10 years. The US and Pakistan bilaterally hate each other now. Both the US and India would mutually benefit in countering Chinese influence. It looks like cooperation is growing, but India is still largely slapping the hand US ambassadors are extending.
Also for the record its the indian government that Is pursuing a pro-western stance. It is the general public that is anti-western.
However, all of this runs the other way too. While India does have some influence over Russia, Russia has equal or greater influence over India, especially because of that military point. So realistically, India can’t do much other than slowly moving its military imports away from Russian (which it is doing).
Yeah I mean I know they had a decent relationship during the era of the USSR. I just never realized it was enough that even the US would sit there and be like... Let's have India basically be our proxy to pressure Russia in to abandoning Ukraine when sanctions and everything else hasn't worked.
It feels like either I'm completely misunderstanding the power India has in relations with Russia or the US is overestimating the power India has in relations to Russia let alone India's willingness to help the US's agenda. Seems like a mess lol.