2. Start taking the break at some point every day if your manager will not stop. If you can't get it until it's time to clock out, go sit down at the end of your shift for your break time. Do not work for free.
Sitting down at the end of the shift doesn't satisfy the mandatory break requirement if the shift is more than 5 hours long. OP is entitled to a break after every 5 consecutive hours worked per BC law.
If the fast food chain is a corporate one vs franchise see if there is anything in the handbook about how long into each shift breaks are supposed to be taken, some places have guidelines on how early or late breaks should take place so take them in accordance to that and get coworkers to do the same. Report managers to corporate if they raise a stink.
However, no province allows your employer to have you work without pay. If you are not given your break or refuse to take it, and you are allowed to work through it, then you are owed pay for it and can file an employment standards claim or your province's equivalent. Your employer is also required to give you any statutory or contractual breaks, regardless of how busy it is: being understaffed is your manager's problem, not yours, and if your manager's instructions effectively mean you can't take a break, then you can make an employment standards complaint about that, as well.
Employment law for these kinds of jobs is set by the province, not the federal government, so the specifics will depend on which province you work in.
There is no exemption that I could find based on being short-staffed. Other commenters are alluding to the possibility but I can't find anything that allows this in BC.
Canadian here, NAL. A lot of commenters here are just giving general advice based on US federal or state laws or just googling "Canada law" and not giving you specific advice for your situation. Here is what is important for a BC employer regarding breaks:
So, to summarize, your employer is RESPONSIBLE for making sure that none of their employees ever work more than 5 consecutive hours without a 30 min break. Even allowing you to end your shift 30 mins early doesn't satisfy the requirement, since you said your shifts tend to be 6-8 hours long (see notes on the policy interpretation ). They MUST allow you to take a 30 min break, and if you are required in any way to be on-call or otherwise "available to work" during that time, it must be a PAID break.
A good litmus test to judge whether you were "required to work" during your break would be to ask yourself whether leaving the premises for those 30 mins would have compromised the business, the employer's ability to offer their goods/services, or resulted in disciplinary action against you for stepping away when you needed to be present. If yes, that means you were in-effect required to be on-call or at your workstation during your break, no matter what the employer "officially" says about allowing you time for your break. You are entitled to pay for any time that "belongs" to your employer in any capacity, period.
You can certainly file a complaint if you wish (complaint process is outlined ) although the BC government advises you try to resolve the matter directly with your employer before escalating it with the province. A good first step would be to write a letter to request your employer pay you for all the wages owed for all the times you were required to work or be available for work during what should have been a mandatory break. If that doesn't work, talk to corporate.
In case this escalates, you need good records of everything. Make sure you have a calendar that shows your shifts worked and which breaks you actually took and at what times (make one ASAP from memory if you don't already have these records, and try to be as accurate as possible). Keep copies of all your paystubs and any communication you have with your employer about this. Back everything up in several places to be extra safe.