Which goes hand-in-hand with the fact that the doctor performing your physical or checkup will not forcefully remove your clothes, it's just that your noncompliance can illicit consequences. Ultimately, you don't have a legal right to prevent your parent from ensuring you aren't self-harming, though it's also unlikely that the doctor will entertain a commotion caused by your parent or guardian attempting to do so. The matter can be escalated to a practitioner at a facility ready to meet the challenge you present.
1, 2) You can always refuse, however, your parents are allowed to overrule your refusal. As a fifteen year old in Florida, there are only a few narrow areas in which you have the ability to consent (or refuse your consent) without a parent's assistance, mostly around contraception and sexually transmitted diseases.
I do note, however, that you are able to access outpatient mental health care without the consent of your parents, up to once a week.
4) If the parent has a legitimate reason for doing so, such as searching for signs of self-harm, no. If you suspect your parent (or any adult) is doing so for inappropriate reasons, you should report it to a teacher or a medical professional.
Checking you for self-harm is a legitimate reason. It wouldn't be OK for them to ask you to strip naked so they can examine your palm, but if there is a legitimate reason for them to need access to the area, you have no legal right to prevent them from doing so.
In practice, a doctor is unlikely to try and force you to do so, however, they may assume that something quite serious is happening if you flat out refuse. It's more likely they'd be leaping to conclusions of abuse rather than self-harm, considering the area, but, both are quite serious.
If you are seeing a mental health professional, they may be able to talk to your doctor and explain that you'd prefer the information not be exposed to your parents.
There's not a route by which you'll be able to classify what you're describing --a routine checkup performed by a licensed provider at the behest of your parent-- as a form of abuse. Your parent can consent for you to receive an exam.
Doing a physical exam for a UTI would require interaction with your genitals, yes. If you're uncomfortable, you should ask for a staff chaperone to be present if a physical exam is going to be performed on you. They should get you a medical professional of your same gender to be in the room while the doctor examines you.
The doctor can’t tell that you don’t have a UTI without doing the required tests/exam, and at 13 your parents can override your objections to get you needed medical care. Just because a UTI isn’t life threatening doesn’t mean it should be ignored, and a parent who doesn’t take their minor child to the doctor or allows the child to refuse treatment can get charged with neglect.
A UTI can actually become basically life-threatening, if it's bad enough and left untreated. It can eventually turn into sepsis (a blood infection) or damage the kidneys (without which, you die).