Whether or not they had sexual intercourse after he turned 18 seems important. The relevant section is this:
Take a look at this overview of statutory rape by state according to the US Department of Health & Human Services.
In Ohio, sexual intercourse with someone under 13 years of age is illegal regardless of the age of the defendant. However, if the victim is above this minimum age requirement (13) and below the age of consent (16), it is only illegal to engage in sexual intercourse with that individual if the defendant is at least 18 years of age.
Doing some googling I found a website that, per rule 3, I'm not sure I can share here because it seems to refer you to specific lawyers, according to which the difference in age matters in sentencing. The relevant section of that site being (emphasis added): "if the defendant is fewer than four years older than the victim, the offense is a first degree misdemeanor, punishable by up to six months in jail, a fine of up to $1,000, or both". Though you should take this with a grain of salt as I don't know the reliability of the source. What is realistic in your case specifically is something you'd have to ask a lawyer about.
Reminded, IANAL, but the odds of her taking him to court over the age difference shouldn't be a thing to worry about.
This sounds more like a crazy ex-gf problem, but not an age issue. Make sure to cut contact with her anyway, and document, document, document, as you don't know how far she'll escalate things and it's better safe than sorry.
And a side note: if she's vandalizing, stalking and harassing, then she's really not going to have a leg to stand on if she goes to the authorities. I know with his OCD it probably makes it hard for him to not laser focus on the potential fear of this, but you have to remember that what she's doing is worse, and she's simply trying to scare him into getting back with her.
He was 18 when she was still 15 — unless Ohio has some sort of odd rounding convention for sexual offenses, I’m not sure I’d characterize it as legal...