Thanks for answer! Overall how accurate they were in their analyses over the decades of work and what was a suprice for them when they got hands on soviet archives/local works related to USSR Cold War era internal affairs?
I just happened to read a book on this that touches on this exact question, and would recommend it for an overview of the rise and fall of Soviet studies as a whole: Know Your Enemy: The Rise and Fall of America's Soviet Experts by David C. Engerman (2009). The final chapter looks at the decline of the USSR and the epilogue chronicles the post-Soviet era in particular, but the whole thing is a neat read.
In short, by the end of the Soviet Union the field of Soviet studies (not just history, but contemporary fields like political science, economics, sociology, etc) was on the decline. After a massive boost in funding in the 1950s and into the 1960s, there was a glut of graduates and not enough positions (a familiar issue for historians today). This worked out well though timewise as the original cohort was reaching retirement age, and there was not incentive, or money, to fill so many spots anymore. The collapse of the USSR only hastened that.
The adjustment to a post-Soviet era was obviously difficult, as scholars had to transition. Many simply adjusted their names to represent the new era: the journal Problems of Communism turned into Problems of Post-Communism, and departments that had "Soviet Studies" in their name modified it to Eastern Europe, or Eurasia (my own alma mater, Carleton University, renamed its " Institute of Soviet and East European Studies" to the "Institute of Central/East European and Russian Area Studies", before finally settling on "Institute of European, Russian, and Eurasian Studies" (I studied under the latter).
Engerman also notes that with the dual issue of a lack of funding and no USSR, scholars were forced to broaden their research a bit, to appeal to a larger audience. To quote Engerman, "[t]he decline of the region as a category for funding has helped, or even forced, Russia experts to more fully engage with their respective disciplines." Before this time, Soviet studies was its own self-contained ecosystem, and while it covered multiple disciplines, it was it's own world, cut off from the rest of the academic world. But now this had to change, and so instead of just looking at Soviet nationality policy (a field I'm most familiar with), they would look at how nationality was conceptualized, for example, or how the Soviet experience fit into definitions of nationality. Or instead of just looking at Soviet political economy, look at how political economy as a field was developed, and so on.
This also served as a major lesson to the government (meaning the US government; Engerman's book only looks at the US), and academia as a whole. Prior to the advent of the Cold War, there was no serious Russia-studies programs in the US at all. There were some isolated programs and instructors (mainly exiles from the Russian Revolution), but no proper attempt to study the region or country. This was obviously an issue as the US tried to develop a proper strategy for the Cold War, and led to the massive influx of funding throughout the 1940s-early 1960s.
So with a lack of funding in the years leading up to the fall of the Soviet Union, the Soviet Studies programs were already on the decline, and the abrupt end of the USSR only hastened what was clear to many people already: that the field was overly large and in dire need of a correction.
This served a valuable lesson because a similar situation occurred in 2001: the relative lack of experts in Islamic fundamentalism and/or related fields (especially language training). However unlike the early Soviet Studies programs, which was "built broadly, deeply, and for the long term in its first decade", efforts in the post-9/11 era were "relatively narrow and shallow", and had a major focus on language training (this isn't something explored in depth in the book, but is definitely a topic that I think would be worth looking at: how the Soviet Studies programs influenced the response to the War on Terror, academically speaking).
Having to rely on reports smuggled out by defectors, or official news from Soviet agencies made study quite difficult, though this was a limitation known to the Sovietologists. They thus relied on a lot of the same material. For one example that Engerman devotes a chapter to, a 1950-51 Harvard project to interview thousands of Soviet refugees was the main source of a lot of detail about Soviet society for decades afterwards, though this obviously had its own limitations (it was far from a representative sample of people). Likewise any statistics on nearly anything, from agricultural output to military expenditure, would have to be taken with a great degree of caution (the Soviets lied to their own superiors about these figures, and would have certainly massaged them further for an international audience).
The result was a lot of interesting discoveries, though I'll focus on one I'm familiar with: Soviet nationality policy. For decades the prevailing view was that the Soviet Union was a "breaker of nations" (to use Robert Conquest's phrase), in that while there were some 100+ ethnic groups spread throughout the country, they were not given freedom to develop their identity, and instead were subsumed to the dominant group, the Russians (a viewpoint made most clearly in Richard Pipes' The Formation of the Soviet Union: Communism and Nationalism, 1917-1923, first published in 1954). However starting in the 1990s this view was challenged as archival material came to light showing that, at least in the early years of the 1920s, the Soviet Union instead promoted ethnic identity, and sought to develop it. This has best been expressed in The Affirmative Action Empire: Nations and Nationalism in the Soviet Union, 1923-1939 by Terry Martin (2001), which as suggests that the policy of promoting non-Russians, коренизация (korenizatsiia, or "indigenization"), was a Soviet equivalent to affirmative action: non-Russians were openly promoted in certain aspects to help develop a national identity (which following Marxist theory would then move past that "bourgeois" stage and onto a nationless society). This has now become the accepted view in Soviet studies, and Pipes' stance has largely been discredited.
The first few years after the fall of the USSR was probably the most productive for archival research. This was a time when there was few limitations on what was available to scholars (some secret police files were still restricted, to name one example). This was gradually withdrawn though, and nowadays it can be quite difficult to get some files (not impossible, mind you).
There are of course similar stories in other topics, I'm sure, but this one example should give some idea of how it went in the post-Soviet era.
That has seen some changes, but a lot of the files related to the NKVD (later KBG), who were the ones in charge of the deportations, are still blocked to scholars. However some documents relating to the Holodomor (the famine in Ukraine in 1932-33) have been made available, especially those in Kyiv, and it has given more scope to what happened.
As I understand it has given more credence to the idea that it was not explicitly an attempt by Stalin or the Soviet leadership to starve the Ukrainians into submission, but more bureaucratic incomitance, though that of course be, and is disputed by scholars. This of course was not available to early researchers, and so as the documents are further read and analyzed I could see a more solid understanding come out. I do think though that if/when the NKVD files are properly opened it'll give a lot more information on these types of policies as well.