I thought it said fired at first and I was cackling; the disappointment at opening the article and realizing it said "fined" was profound.
And yes, prior to the realization my brain acknowledged that it would be a steep punishment for the crime, and that "fired" is not used in the UK. It would say sacked, and that sacked would be too colloquial for the BBC to use.
That would certainly be better, but there are still people for whom that would mean very little. A billionaire, for instance, could easily afford a million dollar fine.
He gets paid to do a job - it's his money for the work he does and can be spent (legally) however he wishes. If a fine takes a chunk of change out of that, it's actually sort of the other way around. He's paying for services that do work for the people.
Honestly, I just saw you asking the same question a few times and gave a few answers. Now, being serious, I don't think an exact percentage is the best answer. Ideally, it would be something like a minimum amount plus a percentage that increases the more net worth a person has. Otherwise £100 is like 10 hours of minimum wage work vs 103 seconds it would take richi to make it assuming a 1% return on his net worth for just sitting in a savings account.
It’s good to hold leadership accountable to (at least) the standards of the people they serve, but remember that if the punishment for a crime is a fine, it’s really only a punishment if you’re poor.
A doctor not wearing a seatbelt under fair law shouldn't be expected to pay a fine any greater (in proportion, I'd argue - not total sum) than a regular Joe, though. They have higher standards in their work because of the catastrophic consequences of failure.
Not to say that punishment shouldn't be equitable - any person making more money should face bigger fine totals than a poorer person.
Even doing that isn’t necessarily equitable. Imagine handing a billionaire a 50% income fine. Would that hurt? Almost certainly, but at the end they still have hundreds of millions of dollars. They’re still impacted far less by that fine than someone who’s struggling to put food on the table who gets fined $100.
I was just messing with the guy above at first he asked what percentage to like three different people so I gave him three different answers. My actual opinion would be a minimum fine with a percentage that increases with a person's net worth.