The Mensur, or academic fencing as often rendered in English, is a ritualistic sword fight contested between two college students who were members of elite fraternities at universities in Central Europe, primarily Germany. Although often called a "duel", it isn't quite one, despite the surface similarities. While the purpose of the Mensur is a display of masculine honor in the same way a duel is, the combatants, generally speaking, lack any animosity or ill-will. Indeed, they might never have met or known of the others existence prior to the fight, and afterwards they might become fast friends. Although death could be a possibility, it was not intended, nor sought, and to mitigate that chance, the combatants would be swaddled in protective gear for their torso and neck, with heavy goggles to protect the eyes as well, and sometimes (but not always) protection for the scalp and nose, with the rest of the face exposed. Standing in striking distance, they would go through a series of cuts that were practically choreographed, aiming to strike at the others face, and with the most important factor being their unflinching acceptance of the danger and potential pain. Both would leave the context 'winners' for their display of bravado, no matter how much more bloodied one might be than the other, with the only way to be considered a loser being to show cowardice or weakness.
This bizarre ritual was the product of the late 18th century Germanic university system, and would fully come into its own in the late 19th to early 20th centuries, where it - or at least the tell-tale scar of the Mensuren - evoke a specific image of the haughty German aristocrat or officer, an association which is certainly not unearned, even if it is somewhat simplistic. The specific creation of the Mensur is somewhat hard to peg with precision, but we know that dueling and violent street brawls were certainly a popular past-time of German university students of the 1700s, leading to the prohibition by Frederick the Great for students to go about armed in public in a futile attempt to curb it. Student duels were often fought over incredible trivialities, even by the standards of dueling generally, and through the period this saw develop a very specific manner in which they were fought, with strict limitations on movement, and a growing amount of allowed protection to limit the chance of serious injury or death, eventually coming to be somewhat standardized as a thick cloth around the waist and torso, heavy gloves, tight-wrapped silk around the throat, and a metal cap with eye pieces.
By the beginning of the 19th century, the Mensur had come into nearly its full form, no longer fought for any actual reason, but rather an arranged fight for a demonstration of virtue and bravery, its name, from the Latin for "measure", speaking to its demonstrative intention. Fought with a sharp-tipped rapier, thrusting attacks could still cause great injury with a punctured lung, and deaths were not uncommon. This resulted in the final key development separating it from the proper duel of honor, as various groups banned the use of the rapier, to be replaced with the Schläger, a heavier cutting blade that lacked a pointed tip, forcing all attacks to be slashes instead of a thrust. The final death from a rapier would be a Munich student in 1847. The change to the Schläger also impacted the style of the duel itself, which leaned more and more into that idea of showing ones "measure". With strikes being (somewhat) less dangerous, the expectation of the Mensur came to be that the combatants wouldn't make serious attempts to even parry but rather go through a set of slashing attacks and perfunctory blocking actions against each other that could come off as all but choreographed, but also described by many as quite an ugly spectacle to watch even on the technical merits. Any movement at all, too, was prohibited and the amount of protection grew too, with the fighters becoming more and more swaddled from the neck down, and seconds would stand by, themselves in protective gear and armed, to block any disallowed movements.
Through the 19th century, despite being nominally illegal, the Mensur came to be a core element of student life at German universities (and more widely in Central Europe, but emanating out from Germanic institutions), and a defining part of the organized fraternities within the system, through which it was regulated. Top of the heap was the Corpsstudenten, the most elite of the elite which embraced a relatively apolitical identity beyond that eliteness, the Burschenschaften which situated itself in opposition to the Corps as a highly politicized bastion of liberalism and German nationalism, and the Landsmannschaften, which was the oldest of the student groups.
All of these groups made the Mensur core parts of their identity, and would have chapters at all of the great German universities, which would in turn be part of larger groups, such as the Kosener Senioren Con­vent that banded together all of the Corpsstudenten. And although they provided the core practitioners, the Mensur was incorporated into the practices of many more groups beyond them, even if on a more voluntary basis. To join one of the 'big three', aside from whatever qualifications were required, participation in the Mensur was necessary (Wilhelm II as a student joined the Corps Borussia Bonn - considered the pinnacle of Corps hierarchy, but as the heir to the throne was not allowed to duel, much to his displeasure, relegating him to Konkneipant status, essentially a hanger-on without full membership). Probationary members would be required to fight a requisite number of combats before considered full members of the group, and fight a certain number of times per year to maintain membership, and failure to live up to expectations in ones duel could scuttle an application or result in expulsion.
The flip side though was that the court had ruled the death as being in a duel because of the lack of proper headgear, implicitly giving some legal standing to the Mensur if conducted properly, but this was overturned six years later with a ruling by the higher courts that as the Schläger was a deadly weapon, the Mensur was legally a duel, regardless of protective gear used, and thus illegal. This, of course, did nothing to limit participation, with an estimated 6,000 such contests fought yearly in a period from the late 19th century through the beginning of World War I, in addition to some 2,000 more student duels fought yearly over serious insults, which were contested with the heavier Säbel or a sabre and a lack of protective padding (these were nevertheless not generally fatal, in comparison to very serious duels fought by full adult German men with pistols, which have a mortality rate estimated as high as 25%). With his ascension to the throne, there was of course no bigger booster than Kaiser Wilhelm II himself. Although he might not have been allowed to fight himself, he loved it dearly, telling a student group in 1891 that "as long as there are German Corpsstudenten the spirit which is fostered in the Corps, and which as steeled by strenh and courage, will be preserved and that you will always take delight in handling the Schläger". A fellow speaker hammered home the point further in noting "The brave man who in defence of his own honour and that of his corps has faced his opponent with a naked sword in his hand without flinching will, in later life, also remain loyal to his fatherland to the last drop of his blood". Needless to say, there was little true threat from the law outside of the most extreme cases.
The duels themselves were raucous social affairs. Two student groups would meet together in a beer hall for a night of drinking and fighting (one never dueled a member of ones own group). Probationary members would be matched up at the discretion of senior members for fights to the cheers of the assembled crowd, some of whom might offer ritualistic insults to each other to 'provoke' a duel for themselves as well. Even the slightest flinch by either participant would result in jeers of warning, and repeated displays of cowardice were the only way to lose. Multiple such losses would, as noted, mean being kicked out in shame. For those who made it through the combat - usually several rounds fought over 15 minutes - with honor intact, it mattered little who was more slashed up or bloodied as both had completed the contest of manhood, and if anything, there was a specific pride in the scar - Schmisse - that they now bore, as it was a symbol of status. Those who had participated in the Mensur were members of the most elite, and a fine scar across the cheek a visual reminder of this to all around them, especially a prospective spouse. As such, the student medics providing the medical attention after the fights - the duelists expected to sit there for their stitching as stoically as during their fight - would often do only a marginal job in dressing wounds and stitching up the cuts so that the scar would not heal cleanly. A common trick was the insertion of a horsehair under the stitches to ensure that perfect amount of visibility.
This is one of the more thorough questions on a subreddit dedicated to thoroughness. I'll definitely save this to return to at a later point.
Frevert, Ute. 1991. “Bourgeois Honour: Middle-Class Duellists in Germany from the Late Eighteenth to the Early Twentieth Century.” In German Bourgeoisie: Essays on the Social History of German Middle Class from the Late Eighteenth to the Early Twentieth Century, edited by David Blackbourn and Richard J. Evans, 255–92. Routledge.
Asch, Adolph, and Johanna Philippson. 1958. “Self-Defence at the Turn of the Century: The Emergence of the K.C.” Leo Baeck Institute Yearbook 3 (1).
Jarausch, Konrad H. 1982. Students, Society and Politics in Imperial Germany: The Rise of Academic Illiberalism. Princeton University Press.