You don't get your security deposit back. If it doesn't fully cover your rent and any damages / cleaning that needs done, then the landlord sues you. He will almost certainly win. Even if he does not win for some reason, it will be on your record that you were sued in relation to a rental. That will not look good to any potential future landlords, and you likely will find it hard to rent again.
You'll both probably be named, though the landlord could opt to just name you if you have been the more responsible one historically. Either way, whether it's just your name or both your names, same consequences down the line.
What is the optimal scenario here? I pay and try and collect from him? What's the likelihood that I can collect? I know this would also fuck up his credit and stuff, so I don't understand why they aren't paying.
That’s seems fucking bullshit. I do my job paying my portion of the rent, why am I the one getting fucked here. Would my roommate not get named in a lawsuit either? It’s not like he doesn’t have the money he just refuses to pay.
So if I don't pay, I get collected on, they sue me, and probably win. I lose credit score, and it makes it harder for me to rent as well. And then I also have to pay anyway if I get in a lawsuit.
Even then, if I end up paying, can I know sue my roommate since I have now technically overpaid for my portion, by also paying for part of his? And what's the likelihood that I can collect?
Then just take the room mate to small claims court. Document everything. Try Even better if you have some proof. A text or email from roommate where it show you asking for their portion of rent. And them refusing.
Great chance you will get a Judgment against room mate. Will be on their record. But you still have to collect if he refuses to pay. May have the extra work or garnishing paycheck.
I know he and his family are rich as fuck, they're just refusing to pay because they haven't been in the apartment for a while despite the fact that they have paid on time for the entire year.
As long as there are records showing that you did pay the whole thing, and nothing showing that you agreed to let him off, it should be fairly assured that you will win in court. Collecting on the debt will be the greater challenge, but it is doable.
Have copy of the payments you made to show you paid full amount. Bank statements, cancelled checks etc...
Right, but if he gets a lawyer, would I be extra fucked. He and his family definitely know a lot of lawyers, and it would suck if I paid rent then also lost the case in court. Would this be a potential issue?
However, neither of us live in the state anymore, and he does not plan on being back in that state. Given this, can I still just sue him in the state where the incident occurred, or do I have to file the lawsuit where he lives?
Simple case to win and dont need a lawyer. Just need their current address at the time. So court can serve papers.
Hard to lose unless you forced him out, which he should not be able to prove. Or if you agreed for him not to pay.
Can I not pre-emptively sue him? I’m just scared because if I pay and then I get screwed over on the court case that would be even worse. If I just decided to not pay either, what would the ramifications be?