True although Russian paid spokespeople need to be investigated like farage, bojo and the rest. Its ridiculous that politicians can keep their jobs after proof of foreign influence is found.
TikTok already is a nuclear bomb. Have you seen the idiocy on there? It is literally causing knowledge decay in our society - brain drain without the drain.
Social media is gonna be the downfall of humanity. A place like Russia can do this much harm is insane. Soon China will figure it out and TikTok will be the new nuclear bomb.
They said that about every massive new technology that captured people's imaginations. We'll be fine after we adjust to having social media over the next 10 years. The problem is we won't learn from this and the next time a big attention getting invention comes along we'll mess up in the early days of that one too.
If you want to believe what you're saying and delight in your despair, go ahead. But a cursory study of history will tell you this isn't our first time being stupid with new tech. In the end we adjust, learn to cope and go on with our lives.
Ones that resulted in deaths? The atomic bomb is the biggie. Ones that may have? The internet. Ones that probably didn't? VCR. Ipod. Automobiles. The list is long and distinguished. Social media isn't the problem. Our ignorance of the past and our overreactions to the future are.
Ok I agree with the atomic bomb. So one? All other techs are golden? With social media it becomes a speed run.
What was the last technology like this? This one has already caused alliances to shift massively and genocides. Did the telephone originally do this? Honestly asking, not sure I know if it’s how it worked in the past.
Alrey gave you one. Besides, conversation is not education. Please. For your own sake. You're a Google search away from knowing more tomorrow than you do today.
So google is education now? You must be one of those independent researchers I’ve heard about. We are on Reddit. I’m not asking you to change my mind I’m here for discussion.