I’d write up a bill for your time spent collecting the animals, cleaning them, buying supplies, as well as sales commissions and hand it to her with the receipts from the sales and some copies of the best pictures from the bunny room. Give her a final tally of what she owes you then give her the rest of the animals back.
Tell her that if she wants to get anything else from you that it’d be in civil court and that you’d be countersuing her for the labor and sales commissions she owes you since she turned you from these animals’ rescuer in to a sales agent.
Sounds like this woman might have some animal hoarding tendencies and you did them a favor. Don’t let idle threats convince you otherwise.
Don’t forget the receipts for what you spent, and document and bill your time for dealing with all of this. So short version is no, she shouldn’t get all the money. She probably still owes you money.
Yeah I think she's made a series of rash decisions and finds herself suddenly desperate and you have "made money" in her eyes so she's trying to claw that money back in desperation to help herself. In a "normal" situation she could probably be rational but people get wild under pressure so she's not being rational.
In the end, you saved the animals which is great, it sounds like you at least recouped some of your costs for supplies and care, she's just seeing cash and panicked. Break down the costs, plus charge a care fee, and put it in writing that she owes you money and if she pursues it you'll they to collect and she'll go away.
I had a renter who didn't put down a deposit (husband was supposed to repair a piece of the roof as their deposit... I know... I know... Stupid for me to make that deal but 1st time landlord at the time...) So they didn't fix the spot as agreed AND didn't pay a deposit. After a year of being late most months, not paying any of their late fees, TEXTURE painting the bathroom sink, and painting red and black handprints on a bedroom wall as "decoration" they moved out and she sends me an official letter threatening legal action if her security deposit (which again... she never paid) wasn't returned to her in full within 60 days. I sent a certified letter breaking down that she hadn't paid one, didn't do the shed repairs, what she owed in late fees, and damage estimates and told her my attorney would be in contact to collect the 1,025 dollars owed. Weirdly she never contacted me again... Huh? Wonder why?
Did you take any photos of the animals when you found them? Animal control would probably be interested in this, should she involve them. Heck, give animal control the photos anyway!