To be clear, I think it was a charitable gesture of you and very loyal of you to support your mother in her time of need. However, that alone is not a requirement. On its own, that constitutes a _gift_, from you to your mother, given at your discretion and in preference to all the creditors you could have paid with that money.
The trustee is empowered to review your finances, and to redress your creditors by clawing back substantial gifts to other parties that would impair your creditors' rights, within a limited timeframe before your bankruptcy. If this gift falls within that time period and if you were not legally required to pay for your mother's care, then it's very likely your mother will need to return that money, or that you will not be able to discharge that proportion of your debts. It may even jeopardize your bankruptcy outright.
That would also be a gift, and would create the same problem. Stop giving your money to other people for free during a bankruptcy. You're broke - you don't have the option of being generous right now, no matter how morally compelling it may be.
My mother lost her job and on top of it all broke her leg so I had to pay for her living expenses plus her medical bills because of good old medical system in US with ridiculous co pays. But the question is about my friend who transferred me money to buy him a car and now being sued by trustee to pay same amount of money to trustee that my friend sent me to pick up a vehicle he saw online and had me go get.
I don't think any of us can speculate as to why your evidence failed to convince the court that this was legitimate and that you had no claim to the money passing through your account.
Your friend could have probably avoided this by having the money go directly from his business to the seller, for example by cutting a check or a money order in the seller's name for you to take with you, but it's a bit late for that now.
What I'm saying is that instead of paying you, so that you could pay the seller, your friend could have avoided getting dragged into your bankruptcy by paying the seller. One way to do that, without changing the shape of the car purchase, would have been for him to give you a cheque, bank draft, or money order, from his business and payable to the seller. Instead of delivering cash that, on paper, came out of your bank account, you'd have been delivering money directly from your friend. If he'd done that, his money never would have hit your account, and he likely wouldn't have gotten involved in your issues.
Like I said, without a time machine, it's not really possible to fix that now, and I can't guess why the courts were not convinced when the trustee sued your friend. Internet\_Ghost is broadly right that this looks weird as hell, and that your bankruptcy trustee's _job_ is to look into anything that could be an attempt to hide assets - such as a car, or eight thousand dollars.