A class action requires a class. Your case doesn't appear to affect anybody but you; do you have any reason to think otherwise? I don't see any reason for why you are so certain.
I’m pissed that they aren’t resolving the issue and playing dumb. A year to resolve an issue shouldn’t be acceptable. The extra 20$ worth of electricity I’m not producing isn’t going to bankrupt me but I do want them to learn what it means to service a customer. Isn’t class action suit, punitive damages the American way of teaching corporations to behave?
If so, and Tesla has basically said, "Yeah, we see that you paid and have a contract for 3.8 but we're only giving you 3.0, tough shit," then you should consult with an attorney about your options. That attorney can set your expectations about whether a personal lawsuit or a class-action lawsuit would be appropriate.
Btw, the reason I feel a class action suit is warranted because Tesla only sells "small. medium and large" size systems. Most folks fall into small and medium so I am thinking Tesla may have installed these smaller capacity systems at many places and customers are none the wiser. Fortunately I got a mix of both which allowed me to identify the difference. Otherwise, anyone that suspects their power generation is less, Tesla shoos them away saying power generated is a complex function of time, day, location, yada yada... In my case, none of that bullshit works because they are 6 ft apart.
Because they installed a 3.0kw inverter on a 3.8kw contract. Tesla only sells small, medium and large sizes so anybody that got a 'small' system like me must've gotten the 3.8kw contract - so do you really think Tesla bought a single system like that for me? They probably installed these 3.0 systems on 3.8 contracts at a whole bunch of places. It's not hard to find out. Asking the manufacturer how many they supplied to Tesla will reveal how many Tesla installed at client sites.
Have you explicitly told Tesla that you have a contract for a 3.8kW system but the system that is installed is a 3.0kW system? And I assume you have two separate contracts, one for each home, each explicitly saying that each home gets a separate 3.8kW system?
Here is a screenshot of the contracts and images of the systems they installed which show clearly the contracts are 3.8kw each but the systems are 3.8kw and 3.0kw each.
Did you sign a contract at any point? If so, does that contract specify the guaranteed output of the system?
Well, it is. It's just that both of yours would be subject to fluctuations or variables in those things in similar ways and at similar times. It's just not to explain why your equipment seemingly doesn't match with what you believed you were getting.
Thanks for pointing that out. I checked the contract on both of them and they are identical. See the images.
Those new updated pictures are also not contracts. Did at any point you put your physical signature on a paper (or digital) contract? And if so, what does that contract say?
And what you're entitled to get in terms of equipment should be outlined somewhere in whatever contracts you entered into, which is why the specific language of those contracts is important.
While it is a complex function, it is not when both homes are 6 ft apart and the panels are laid out exactly the same way, and the difference in their power generation seems to be exactly the same difference as in the inverters.
Those pictures also insinuate that you're getting solar panels that are capable of 3800kW. The pictures of the equipment you posted earlier are of the inverters, which are a completely different thing. There's usually no major technological issues with combining panels that are capable of a specific kW with an inverter that does not output that exact same thing (though I understand the concern over why two supposedly identical systems have different capacity inverters).
That said, I agree that the contract talks about 3.8kw panels but when they advertise the “small” system is capable of 3.8kw, the implicit agreement is that the inverter also supports 3.8kw generation since both panels and inverter have to support that 3.8kw power generation.
Right, but there's probably a ton of legal-ese to those contracts that specify these things and what you're entitled to.
I have to believe a contract for the purchase and install of these presumably expensive solar units contains much, much more than just a couple of screenshots with vague picture descriptions and prices next to them.
Look, I get it -- a 3,800kWh system should have an inverter that is capable of that. Buried somewhere in the legal-ese of the presumably long contract that you presumably signed is probably language that outlines exactly what kind or capacity equipment you're entitled to as part of that contract.
That specific language is going to be incredibly relevant here, and thus far, the portions of the contract you've posted do not include any of that relevant legal-ese.
You should take your concerns to an IRL attorney who can review your contract and advise you on the best path forward.
You have no actual proof of either of these claims. You'd first need to show that this issue is actually Tesla's fault. So you're going to have to do the legwork to figure out why one system is not producing as much as the other.
After that, you can see if other customers of Tesla are, in fact, affected by this, if there are other suits filed on this issue, and if it's a large enough number to justify a class-action suit.