Depending on the timeframe you are looking into, part of the reason it is a job is that there are socio-economic factors. Executioner was a needed position that caused one to be looked down upon by the rest of society. It would also of course weigh on ones concious being the person who ended the lives of fellow citizens.
Execution by noose wasn't always cleanly done, and knowing how high to hang and by what methods and making sure scaffolding was proper was a skill. And that's just hanging, the work of an executioner to remove a head was even more skilled, and often botched. Botching an execution was dangerous, as the watching crowd would at times turn on an executioner that botched his job and attack him or cause a riot (in 1747 Simon Fraser's exection resulted in 50 more deaths as the stands collapsed as people watched and jeered.) Prisoners would often give their executioners gifts and speeches to calm their nerves right before being beheaded in hopes that it would result in a clean kill with only one swipe. The term for going to ones execution in this calm manner was called "showing bottom" in England, which is kinda fun.
It was also a skilled position. Executioner Jack Ketch was famous for how often he botched his jobs. He once put out a pamphlet after the execution of Lord Russell, passing the buck on the poorly done job by saying the executed nobleman didn't stay calm enough and that's why he had to hack at his head so many times. Lord Monmouth was later executed by him and brought up the botched Lord Russell job to his executioner to try to avoid the same fate. It did not work, as it took no less than five hacks to get the job done. Executioner John Thrift, by contrast, killed Lord Lamont with such a clean cut that he buried the axe two inches into the chopping block below. One would much prefer the skilled killer. Thrift was an interesting character as he felt guilt about his role and at one point Lord Kilmarnock had to console his soon to be killer to keep him calm enough to do the job smoothly. He was also the last of the British hangmen to do live head removal, after him it was done primarily post mortem to put the head on a pike.
The Faithful Executioner: Life and Death, Honor and Shame in the Turbulent Sixteenth Century - Joel Harrinon.
EDIT: Yo /u/laszlo451 put way more time into his answer than I, his comment is worth putting more weight into.
Did an executioner just work like one hour a month, and the rest of the time just relax? Or did they have other 'regular' work to do also.
If they were in large cities like London they would stay busy with their trade in one place, it was an appointed position and sought after. Lower tradesmen executioners would spend their time travelling from town to town to perform their duties.
Would the town have to contact the executioner to schedule him? I.e. "I can be there on Tuesday after I'm done at Westfordshire?" Or would the executioner go from town to town asking if they have anyone that needs killing?
Were they primarily for political/religious reasons, or was a larger proportion of them carried out on regular criminals (murderers and the like)?
England operated under "The Bloody Code" for a long time that saw executions for even minor crimes. At the point of greatest number, there were 220 different crimes that could or would result in execution. I know it's not a primary source, forgive me, but this isn't a first question so I think it's okay to link here for further information.
Good lord -- reads like you could get the death penalty for a theft equivalent in value to two hours pay. I can see how the executioner would have stayed busy! Thank you.