"death sentences"? Let's call them what they are ... murder of innocent people protesting religious nutcases murdering girls for how they wear their hair.
No need to fight the government if you vote in the people on your side, or at least moderately close. Most western nations have a culture that would never accept something like this out of the blue.
How exactly is a government like that going to be elected in a country whoch values democracy and freedom? Ita not like a group of a few politicians can seize the whole country, military and police wont cooperate if they go completely against their ideals.
Not educated enough to speak on the US, but in my country (norway) democracy is so engrained in our society i highly doubt it would vanish overnight.
Take my point with a grain of salt cause again im not educated enough really, but my view is thatthe 2 party system is nit doing you any favors. The extremists on both sides are part of the same party as the moderates, and the media runs on ragebait articles about the «other side».
Its making it seem like there is a huge divide between republicans and democrats when in reality most people are probably just in the middle. We saw this with how the GOP lost a lot of votes in the midterms due to their harsh stand on abortion, which caters to the more extreme side. The moderate republicans who didnt want their right to choose gone, quickly jumped ship and voted democrat. This is for sure an oversimplification btw.
The danger comes if the continuing stream of ragebait news drags more people into the extremes, and they start seeing the other side as «enemies». If stuff like the Jan 6th riot and BLM riots continue happening it will just fuel the divide and cause more friction, dragging even more people to the extremes. Now pair that with «well regulated militas» with radicalized political views and you have a powder keg building.
oh yea, the afghan government and the french colonizers/japanese occupiers were notorious for being really strong on the 2nd amendment. they really allowed everyone to have a gun and all that jazz. those regimes totally didn't get fucked because china/soviet union/the US pumped massive amounts of weapons and support into the insurgents! /s.
lmfao. nice try, buddy. good luck trying to find a nation state capable of pumping in enough support and weapons into any developed democracy for civies to overthrow their government.
This is a stretch for sure and the US looks to be far away from something like this, but its not unthinkable.