No. At least, there are not significant, accurate, or enough sources that identify seafaring by ethnographers.
The Aztec Triple Alliance was not geographically located near nor primarily inhabited at the coasts of Mexico. At least, with a large population such as Tenochtitlan to develop and consider seafaring. The Aztec Triple Alliance, forming in 1428, reached the coasts of the Gulf of Mexico during the reign of Moctezuma I (1440-1469 CE) and the later tlahtohqueh, or rulers, that expanded as far as northeast near Tuxpan, Veracruz—neighboring Otomi territories. Likewise, the Aztecs expanded to the west coast—as far as present day Cihuatlan, Jalisco—during the reign of Ahuitzotl (1486-1502 CE) and more during the reign of Moctezuma II (1502-1520 CE)—as far south as Tehuantepec, Oaxaca, with a couple of states and kingdoms neighboring.
Given this information of their expansion and the cities nearest to the coasts, the Aztecs simply did not develop the technology to set expeditions and seafaring due to cities in the outskirts of the Aztec's territories being more sparse than densely populated and those spots just joining the alliance recently. Thus, giving the rulers less time to plan what to do there extensively and instead focusing on assimilating their newly acquired lands into their alliance.
Toponymy—and in this case, hydronyms—may be relevant as they would indicate that the Aztecs were aware of bodies of water they'd consider exploring. But, they did not. As far as it goes, the Aztecs developed and sustained in a mild highland environment. Therefore, the Aztecs did not have advanced cities to take time to develop fleets and seafaring. But, there are not enough sources that show if, for example, the Atlantic ocean had a name by the Aztecs. Given this statement from this , which explains why it may be difficult to ensure if:
However, they were well aware of large bodies of water surrounding Mexico. Given this , there were names for the bodies of water. Such as ayollohco for a gulf, and ilhuica(a)tl or teoatl for an ocean in classical nahuatl. Alternatively, the name of their known land was , meaning "entirely surrounded by water" or "all of which is surrounded by water"; rarely meaning the "world" at times as well.
Similarly, given Tenochtitlan being built on artificial land in a natural lake of Texcoco, the Aztecs did develop some technologies for navigation throughout the lake. The Aztecs developed several types of , , harbors, docks, and quays for transportation, , and trade. Just as this about 'The Aztecs and Lake Navigation' by Mexicolore states:
Just as you mention the Incas in the Andes, they simply had an interest and convenience of exploring the Pacific as it was adjacent to them. Similarly, the Mayans had cities and urban areas near the Yucatan coasts, such as Tulum. Hence, why the Mayans also had an interest and convenience of investing time to explore and trade in the seas, having territories primarily in the Yucatan Peninsula—an area surrounded by water.
In conclusion, no, the Aztecs didn't get to develop too much into the fields of seafaring and maritime explorations due to their geography and according to existing sources stating so.
To my understanding Columbus called the natives Indians because on one of the islands they told Columbus of a big land with a big river and he assumed it was the Ganges river in India.
How much did the people on the islands know of the American continent and did many of them have a sea faring tradition ?
You are most likely referring to the Orinoco River. Since the Caribs are migrants, specifically Taino Caribs coming from northern South America, they told Columbus about that. The Taino had some ancestry of the people near the Orinoco River, the Yanomami and the whole same region having linguistic similarities.
Anyway, the Taino thought Columbus was talking about what he mentioned, even if they were in the Caribbean, the descendants of the northern South Americans knew about the existence of the Orinoco River. Columbus then found out about that river, during his in 1498.
To answer your question, there were many indigenous people that knew about each others' existence. The Taino, Caribs and Mayans traveled around the Gulf of Mexico and Caribbean Sea. Hence, how the natives of Cuba—like the Taino—knew about the of Mesoamerica and Mayans. Similarly, South Americans like the Inca and natives from Colombia traveled the Pacific coasts. There is even some of gold from Chichen Izta traced from Colombia:
East South Americans like the Tupi-Guarani must have explored by canoes near the Atlantic coasts of present day Brazil. Mesoamericans and southeast natives of present day U.S. like the Mayans and Mississippian natives traded in the Gulf of Mexico. Natives in the east coast must have traveled and traded with neighboring New England natives seafaring too. Likewise, the Canadian Natives of the northwest and arctic seas like the Inuit-Yupik people practiced seafaring. As well as people of Hudson Bay, the Great Lakes and the west coast of California explored the waters.
Really, almost any of the Native Americans that settled near large bodies of water or rivers developed and practiced seafaring technologies. Only the furthest corners of North and South America being the only limit to awareness.
I tried posting a question something like this but, the sub kept rejecting it (I need reddit lessons).
So, I like to hobby write. One of my writings is of a Spaniard on Columbus's first trip grows appalled at the treatment of the natives and ends up on a native boat and sails to Central America and becomes friends and advisor to the Aztecs before Coronado shows up. Would this be too far fetched ?
I don’t see how that’d be far fetched. Considering Coronado, how would his absence change from what actually happened? He did play a role exploring the southwest with not only Spanish, but some of the same native allies from post-conquest.
Here we can conclude that it would be more likely for Caribs being aware of Mesoamericans than Caribs being aware of Inuit-Yupik people. It is not known if the Caribs knew the difference between the land they originated from—South America—and people they interacted with—Mayans of North America. Though, they had to have known a difference between Mayan languages not being the same as their own. Which leaves us with the idea of the Caribs knowing different places and peoples existed. The same would apply for every other Native American of the 'New World.'.
Thank you! Did seem odd to me that all those people on all those islands didn't know how to sail very far. Especially if the natives of the Aleutians and the people that settled in Hawaii were so very good at it.
My fiction account the man (Peco) is a metallurgist, gun and powder maker gets over to Central America, becomes a friend to Montezuma and advises him to not trust the Spaniards and what they will do. He starts a spy school, so to speak, teaches them Spanish and sends them to the islands to see what is happening and they come back and tell Montezuma.
Montezuma lets Coronado and his troop get well into the country and wipe him out, then sends out boats one night to take the ships too. This disappearance causes a halt for exploring for about ten years.
In that time Montezuma makes amends with the tribes the Aztecs enslaved and forms sort of a federation. Peco even makes it to the Incas and warns them and even manages to find enough ore to make guns and cannons. The loose federation holds off the Europeans for a 100 years and makes them pay a deep price and maintains a certain amount of autonomy.
Which destination influenced Peco to ‘betray’ the Spanish forces? Also, would this mean the states surrounding the Aztecs (Tarascans, Otomi and other ‘enemies’) would allow the empire to grow?
Columbus comes along looking for men and being good with guns and sails Peco fits the bill and the chance to start a new life of wealth comes along he takes it.
Peco is a gentle and intelligent soul. He has heard stories of the wars with the Moors in Spain and some of the horrors of war. He goes from having a good life in Spain with a wealthy father that teaches him the metal and gun trade to end up being poor working for a sail maker.
He is thrilled to see the new world and decides to stay when Columbus leaves and over times sees the natives become more and more abused.
At one point he is Cuba and sent with a detail to collect taxes from a native village on the coast. It kinds of ends up being a party that takes more than is required of the natives and then the Spaniards start raping some women.
He finally challenges the head of the detail and ends up killing him and another man and the natives join in and kill the rest. This makes him a hero but, they now have the problem of what to do because a search party will come and there will be hell to pay when they find out.
Peco comes up with the idea to stage what looks like the boats they came in flipped over and all the men drowned. But, that leaves him with the problem of what is he going to do. In a conversation with the elders one says it is a shame he can't go to the big land across the water and hide.
He ask what they are talking about and they explain one of the women in the village he saved was from there.
He decides to take a chance and they get one of the boats and the woman and few volunteers that have some knowledge of sailing and they go to Central America.
The Aztecs have to accommodate the other tribes. Give them some goods, let them have some freedom but, they form a joint military.