i’m absolutely not a lawyer, but since she’s in missouri you might be able to utilize this if you have specific abuse or neglect worries- it’s slightly nuclear, but taken seriously if the adult is disabled and it sounds like you have valid concerns. i’ll also reiterate they likely won’t keep you in the loop on the case, and i’m unsure that they’d be able to share any information.
Even if you don't suspect her of having killed him, you can call the police and express your concern that he is missing and tell them that you think it's really suspicious that she claims he's in facility but won't say where it is. The police can take it from there. She's either gonna tell the police where he is or the police are probably going to get very suspicious, very fast.
Note: If he's in a facility there's no guarantee that the police will tell you where he is, but they should at least confirm her story is true and check on his well being.
Contact the police where he last lived or where she lives and report that he's severely autistic/disabled and has been missing for four years. I don't mean to be crass here, but how do you know she didn't kill him? It sounds like you don't. Full time care facilities are really expensive. Maybe she didn't put him in a facility at all. It's not uncommon for people who murder family members and loved ones to have a cover story that the murder victim has just "gone away" and then they bristle when asked for details.
If they can’t tell me where he is can they contact me back at least to say they can confirm he’s safe? I’ll still go this route of course, it makes sense, just wondering I guess.
That's what I would expect them to do, but I don't know. The police may have reasons why they don't want to give you any information. She might convince them that you're an abusive stalker, for example. Or they might decide it's none of your business. I'd expect them to let you know if they determine he's safe though, and they might or might not tell you where he is.
He is missing. Your sister can claim what she wants. You have no proof he's not buried in the back yard. Call the police. Stop overthinking it. The first step is to make sure he is alive and not being abused.
I have no clue if she has a Medical POA. I know he can’t live in his own at all. He can do some things like cooking simple meals but needs supervision. My mom kinda treated him like a seven year old his whole life, including telling him Santa was real way into his 20s and not really teaching him how to do chores and such. So I don’t know if it’s a ‘he can’t do it’ or ‘he doesn’t know how to do it but can if shown’. But he’d still need help covering bills, he can’t work at a job, etc. I do t even necessarily disagree with a home as long as it’s a good supportive one, I just don’t like that she’s cut absolutely everyone off for…honestly no reason other than she’s very deep into alt-right stuff. Like called CPS on me several times to try and get guardianship of my son from me. I also don’t want legal guardianship unless I absolutely have to because I am not equipped mentally or financially for that. Mostly it’s just that I want to know he’s okay and if there’s a way I can communicate with him without having to be his legal guardian. I hope that makes sense?