It is perhaps awkward to argue the word “intentionally.” It is nearly impossible to imagine you didn’t know giving the children the reading material in advance was cheating. If we believe that it doesn’t really make our reaction to you and your behaviors better.
Ultimately you can’t really successfully fight this. You did it. It happened. It will reasonably be a part of your record in whatever way that’s kept.
Is it not up to the teachers to determine how they grade their own classes and administer their own tests? It was not still a state exam, just a grade in this teacher's own class.
It says that i tried to cheat and confessed only 2 hours before the test was to be given out, and that i forced a teacher (collegue mentioned all over post) to miss homeroom to help me fix up the new test so it could be administered.
If you have a mentor or trusted other teacher I might discuss with them whether the fight or objection, which by definition forces you to argue your own lack of understanding sort of basic testing procedures, makes you better or worse.
Nor is improper test administration in a way that artificially inflates results just a "my own teaching method" issue.
Ultimately, even if this was a pop quiz, the answer is no. Teachers, like any other employee, are managed by their management. And can be disciplined for doing their job incorrectly in accordance with the CBA (in many situations) or the administrator's judgment (apparently in this situation).
This situation is interesting in the context of the instruction from a more experienced peer (interesting in equitable outcome, not really in legal outcome). But not really interesting or questionable from the perspective you raise.
This appears to be more complicated than that. One of the challenges of an internet forum is that we'll never fully understand context. But this appears to be something more significant than a pop quiz.
I suppose that you're right that the sole intent of this was to increase their grades, not to increase their learning. It's not like giving out the questions for a math exam ahead of time and then expecting the students to not only answer correctly, but also show their work. It's most likely testing quick reading comprehension by giving them more time, defeating the purpose of the test and not teaching anything.