This week's Tuesday Trivia topic is Femme Fatales Come share your stories of history's female spies, assassins, black widows, cagey politicians, and more.
And on Thursday, stop by our Floating Feature to talk about Near Eastern history There are like eighty documentaries called "secrets of the pyramids"--I expect to learn at least some of those, so don't disappoint me.
In what circumstances, exactly, was the True Cross re-discovered in Jerusalem in c.330 – and by whom? What did the relic look like? And, when it was looted by the Persians after the fall of Jerusalem in 614, what happened to it next? Was the Cross that was returned to the Church of the Holy Sepulchure in 630 the original? Or did the Emperor Heraclius conspire with his former enemies to pass off a fake onto the Byzantine faithful?
had a very different perspective on some military minds. The next one will be on Femme Fatales, so bring your favorite story about some badass women!
Sunday Funday, it’s digest time There’s been some excellent threads this week, on a huge variety of topics as always. And we’ve seen the first two Floating Features of the summer campaign Lets get rolling and you can check out the fare below!
Have you ever dreamed about becoming a flair? Maybe you just want to contribute to the best darn sub on reddit? The Floating Features are the perfect opportunity for you. Each one is an open ended theme that gives you a chance to write just about anything on the topic. No more waiting for a question that fits your niche, bring your niche to the front page!
The second FF was Which had just a mountain of people contributing to it. Was a huge hit And still open, so if you want to contribute yourself, now’s your chance.
The next one will be all about the Middle East! Happening Thursday August 1st, it’s your next chance to start building that flair portfolio, or just introduce some people to your favorite history.
The featured /u/Sunagainstgold dealing with medieval women writers, /u/WelfOnTheShelf on the Islamic reaction to the Fourth Crusade, and /u/Klesk_vs_Xaero continuing to write an entire novel on the Italian Facism. All great stuff!
Hats off to the many writers and their fantastic work It’s a incredible wealth of history to read through. See ya’ll next week folks.
There’s a mountain of stuff from /u/Georgy_K_Zhukov as per usual. Check out the incredible stuff below!
Meanwhile there is no escaping… about deleted comments. Come witness several of us reiterate the same talking points as usual.
Actually I believe full credit should go to /u/mimicofmodes who noticed it first. I just eagerly read it right after!
/u/Djiti-djiti has also gone back and expanded on their already fantastic answer to I 100% recommend you go back to read through the new additions.
/u/hamiltonkg wrote for a now sadly deleted question in [Why revolutions in a same style like the one that happened in France 1789 didn't happened anywhere else in Europe in that period (like in Russia or Habsburg Monarchy for example)?] (.
Although I never know how upvotes counts work. When I look at it now I've upvoted it, but it registers as just 1. When I refresh the page its 3. Crazy times.
I'm bummed as well! I suspect its because it got deleted pretty quickly, but I didn't notice that till this morning. Usually revolution questions get fairly popular.
"Fighting misinformation and bad history. They tried asking, but now its time for Historians Telling.".
It's just about the literal AskHistorians Dream Team. /u/sunagainstgold, /u/itsallfolklore and /u/hannahstohelit Avengers assemble to take on.