Not sure where you are located? In the US you need to fill out a healthcare directive/living will/advanced directive. The name will vary based on your state. This document is used by your medical team along with your next of kin or the person holding your Healthcare Proxy to make decisions according to your wishes.
You can include a DNR in this. It is important that all involved know your wishes. Language should be exact, and not open to subjective interpretation. In addition, you should give a copy to your physician, and to your next of kin/proxy. None of this will prevent resuscitation if you are found unconscious by strangers, paramedics, etc, but it will prevent resuscitation in the event that you arrest in a hospital or other facility, or in the presence of your proxy or physician.
Because if it's the former, a DNR isn't going to prevent you from living so long that you end up in a nursing home. In fact, the majority of people living in nursing homes or assisted living facilities have not experienced life-or-death situations where a DNR would have allowed them to pass earlier.
Others have already addressed your concerns over to who and when a DNR applies. I was curious about this part of your post:
Ok. Thank you. I will get the paperwork in order. I know it's not a for sure thing in the event of an accident or something people on the scene will give life saving support. My family knows my wishes, but as I just commented on somebody else's comment, my grandfather had the same wishes. He had a heart attack at home and my grandmother was panicked, so she did not communicate the wishes. She allowed intubation and cardioversion. He lived in a nursing home after that, which is exactly what he was trying to prevent. I just wanted to know if I could do a DNR along with my living will. I've only seen dnr's done after someone gets a specific lethal diagnosis.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.