In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Unless the US economy completely decouples itself from global markets (which is economic suicide), then this is going to be the norm. It is high time people accept this cruel reality.
Most Americans want to put this sedation thing behind them. It’s just like anything negative. Bringing back something shitty from the past has never won elections. Especially from democrats.
What democrats need to be doing right now (well maybe last month) is to level with us about the future/economy and have a plan to make it better. I don’t even know if they have a plan they’re trying to sell and I pay some attention to politics. It’s just so…predictable. Things are bad, so try and deflect it on something bad about other party did.
In general I agree, I think we do need to relentlessly shit on Republicans for their borderline(?) criminality, but their supporters are probably already convinced that Obama and Biden are somehow involved in some kind of baby-eating cult or something, so this messaging isn't going to get through to them anyway.
But they haven’t leveled with us at all about the economy, nor have they stated any plan to ease the coming recession.
They implemented a good portion of their plans. What people don't understand is that major reform policies takes months and years to implement, and their effects to perpetuate into our daily lives.
I’m just saying this isn’t going to be a winning strategy for Democrats. Maybe I’ll be wrong. We’ll see in a few days.
Then you have not been paying attention. The bipartisan infrastructure plan, as well as the provisions in the Inflation Reduction Act spells out exactly the plan for the US economy over the next 5-10 years. Again, it takes months to YEARS for its effects to take hold. On top of all of this, the war in Ukraine, plus the current stance OPEC is taking regarding oil production, are factors that are outside the control of the White House and Congress.