Chase's position is quite likely to be that they are not set up to investigate whether the work was done, whether it was completed, whether it met minimum quality standards, and whether the contract, express or implied, was or was not satisfied. They're likely to say that it's a civil matter that needs to be resolved by the courts and not by a bank investigation, which they are not equipped to handle. Your friend might as well talk to an attorney now and get answers about the particulars of his situation, because it looks like the client is intentionally trying to be as obstructive and difficult as possible.
Client may very well be hoping to get sued in small claims court so that he can then do precisely what you're worried he's going to do in order to confuse and delay the issue. You can get an attorney and sue him outside of small claims court from the beginning to deprive him of that option and move more quickly on the issue.
The check is either fraudulent or not, but no one here knows what basis the client has for claiming that it is. There are many forms of fraud, not all of which are merely altering the check. (Though that may very well be what the client is saying; I myself don't know.).
OK. So if he does that, and in the meantime the client reverses the other two checks, then what? It goes above the small claims limit then. Does the small claims case get thrown out? Amended? Does he need to file three separate small claims cases?
My point is that Chase is likely to say that, if the client says it's fraudulent and the contractor says it isn't, they aren't set up to adjudicate that matter. In any case, suing the client is likely to be easier and cheaper, and more likely to directly resolve the issue, than it would be to sue Chase to force them to perform an investigation, which would be your other option.
If you have any uncashed checks by this client, you need to call the bank (that the check was written on) and ask their customer service department to verify whether there is enough money in that account to cover the uncashed check that you have. If there is enough money in the account you need to cash it immediately.