Hello there! The answer to your question is actually fairly simple. Though, since this is the AskHistorians subreddit, I will provide some links to the original texts describing these changes below as well.
These rules did not apply to soldiers once drafted; but rather to incoming draftees who would be classified according to a broad array of categories. Please let me know if I can clarify anything here, or if you'd like more information about the US Draft (Selective Service) or would like more detail on these Executive Orders.
To specifically answer your question: From March 14, 1963 to April 23, 1970, the United States Selective Service was directed by Executive Order 11098 to not draft any man with a child, legitimate or illegitimate. This Executive Order, signed by President Kennedy, reinstated the paternity deferment policy which had been in effect from 1948 to 1953. It would be ended by President Nixon, roughly a year and half before the formal draft itself concluded in 1971. Since the US participated in active ground combat in Vietnam from 1965 through the early 1970s, it's very likely that your Father was deferred for this reason during the war.
Were there widespread attempts to use this to get out of the draft? Everyone talks about how people used college to try and dodge the draft but this seems almost easier, yet I've never heard of this.
I'm not overly familiar with whether there was intentional abuse of this specific deferment category by having children, though many tens of thousands of men were deferred this way, there was abuse of other, related 3A (and other) deferments. Things like a straight 'marriage' deferment .
Of course, I am glad he was deferred. He is still alive and is every bit the man I still hope to be one day.
My father was no patriot. He was in it for the paycheck. We came from and Indian Reservations, two of the most impoverished places on earth, then and now. So, he judged that a regular paycheck was worth the risk of death, given the 90% or so unemployment rate on the reservation.
I'm far more familiar with US Federal Law and the various elements of it than I am with the treatment of soldiers within the US military. I hope someone who's more qualified can address this.
Thanks for your reply. All that makes sense. Do you have any idea about treatment of soldiers, drafted or not, who went on to have multiple children during their service?
Many did, nothing to be ashamed of. History seems to view this war in a rather unfavorable light, to put it gently.
Potentially, depending upon the time that they were drafted. I’ll copy the relevant portion of the answer I gave below and give some additional context from my website. Some changes to the Selective Service Act were made during a period when the number of voluntary enlistments was sufficient to maintain the military’s desired strenh, which resulted in calls being temporarily suspended:
The following comes from covering the legislation and mechanics of the Selective Service System from 1948 until the mid-1970s, focusing on the switch between administrative selection by local boards and the lottery in 1969. It includes an extensive bibliography at the end.