In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Addiction medicine certification used to just be a test you could sit for after practicing, study, and attending training courses. Now the specialization requires a 1-2 year long fellowship, meaning fewer docs will be boarded and thus fewer able to prescribe for more than 30 people a month.
from the first time i did heroin there was nothing at all that could alleviate my need for it - it felt like a necessary part of my life like food or sleep.
i can testify first hand that buprenorphine obliterated my cravings for opiates and allowed me to get enough time under my belt to get my life together.
not sure how it is now, but back when i quit (over 15 years now) i could score hydromorphone for about $2 a pill but buprenorphine was like $25 a pill and hard af to find.
Its still like $20 at its lowest on GoodRX, average is $300 for a months supply for those without insurance. There are also programs that hand it out, but that depends on the area.
What's worse is it has been made more difficult to get prescription privileges. Docs can get a X-waiver that lets them write for 30 people a month and to be able to write for more they are phasing in addiction medicine specialization requirements.
when i last kicked H i was fortunately in LA where bup/nar/sub are all pretty readily available at most pharmacies - and cost about a dollar a dose iirc.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
If addicts are no longer consuming illegal drugs, what will happen to the private prisons? The defense lawyers? The cops who can no longer pocket wads of confiscated cash? Even the Border Patrol would not be hiring so many people.