Thank you for this question! Tis not quite the season yet but never too soon to think about fried potatoes .
Or, should I say, fried cheese and/or buckwheat, because it turns out that latkes in general DO precede the arrival of the potato!
The first text generally turned to when inquiring into Jewish foodways is Gil Marks's Encyclopedia of Jewish Food, and that's where we learn that the original latkes (a name, incidentally, which comes from oladka, the Ukrainian word for fried pancake/fritter), as in "fried pancakes made by Jews in honor of Hanukkah," originated in medieval Italy, where they were fried in olive oil. This makes sense- olive oil is both symbolic of the miracle of the oil lasting eight days in the menorah and plentiful in Italy)- and that may be why when, in a poem by the 14th century Italian poet Kalonymus ben Kalonymus, he includes fried pancakes on the list of foods eaten on Hanukkah (and, interestingly, Purim as well). By the 16th century, Spanish influence led to these pancakes being made of cheese, which was seen as symbolic of the story of Judith, who according to a version of the legend had fed Holofernes cheese pancakes.
Cheese pancakes, whether fried in olive oil or some other fat, became and remained the Hanukkah pancake of choice in southern Europe, but farther north, where dairy products were far more expensive in the winter (AKA Hanukkah season) and oil was expensive in general, the pancakes were made with buckwheat or rye flour and fried in schmaltz, or rendered animal fat. This applied not only to Hanukkah pancakes, but to any fried pancakes in general, which were generally seasonal delicacies; another which is still eaten (though far less popularly) is chremslach, a matzah based pancake eaten on Passover. All of this is entirely pre-potato. Post-potato, of course, everything changed, so let's just talk about potatoes, and Jews and potatoes, for a bit.
The post-potato era took a lot longer to arise in Europe than one might think given the potato's centrality in Ashkenazic Jewish cuisine (and the cuisines of so many other European cultures). The white potato didn't come to Europe until the 1570s and took 200 years to move past initial conceptions of it as unhealthy and tasteless, until Antoine-Augustin Parmentier devoted his life to publicizing the potato as a healthy, versatile and economically beneficial foodstuff to great effect. Soon, potatoes were being planted throughout Europe, though they didn't become popular in eastern Europe, home base to a large percentage of Ashkenazic Jews, until the mid-19th century. Due to the poverty stricken nature of the area, and the potato's ability to serve not only as a starch but as a repository of many needed vitamins, Jews embraced it as a central element of their repertoire and in fact ate it even more than their non-Jewish neighbors. Potatoes required little cultivation, and, as my great-grandfather used to remember from his childhood in Galicia, there might be no other food to eat but if you dug around enough you'd find a potato. Their ubiquity can probably be linked as a cause of the fact that while pre-potato-popularity, in 1815, there were 1.5 million Jews in Russian Poland, by 1897s (post-potato) there were five million, despite huge amounts of outward emigration.
The potato soon came to be considered a "Jewish food" in the sense of not only its ubiquity but its importance in sustaining Jewish families, who were often impoverished. It soon became such a staple that in the early 19th century, as the potato was becoming popular, Rabbi Avraham Danzig, author of the work of halacha (Jewish law) Chayei Adam, tried to have potatoes declared kitniyot, a designation which would forbid them on Passover to Ashkenazic Jews as being too similar to grains (which are forbidden on Passover) in their ability to be made into a flour. Luckily, rabbinic consensus was against them and to this day potatoes are a staple of Passover food. Another great anecdote- the 19th century rabbi Israel Lipschitz of Danzig wrote in his commentary on the Mishna that there are four specific non-Jews who earned entry to the world to come through their good deeds which benefited humanity- Edward Jenner for the smallpox vaccine, Johannes Gutenberg for the printing press, Johannes Reuchlin for preventing the burning of the Talmud in Italy, and Sir Francis Drake for bringing the potato to Europe. (While it was not Drake who did so, the confusion is understandable, as popular imagination in this era seems to have been that he did so; a statue of him was erected in the German city of Offenbach in 1853 which celebrated this achievement.) Potatoes, or (as they were variously known among Jews) kartufln and bulbes, were not just constantly eaten but incorporated into such traditional Jewish foods as cholent (a stew eaten for lunch on the Sabbath), kugel (a baked casserole served on the Sabbath- while many varieties are still eaten, potato kugel is extremely popular), and, of course, latkes.
Another excellent question, though this is more of a question about the intersection of Jewish practice with Jewish history, because this question is really about what kitniyot are.
This stuck out to me in a typically fascinating answer. Is it known why the Rabbi did this? Was this kind of declaration common for new or unusual foodstuffs?
Because of the nature of this prohibition as a rabbinic ban, the actual bounds of it are very unclear. In fact, the reasoning for it is unclear as well- some say it's because kitniyot can get mixed up with one of the five grains, others say it's because flour can be made of kitniyot which can be confused with that of the five grains, or perhaps it's because kitniyot and the five grains could be grown in the same fields. Another aspect which is unclear is what kitniyot actually are. While rice, beans, and several kinds of seeds (such as mustard) are definitely prohibited, the question of other grains has historically been much hazier. This particularly became a concern when new foodstuffs came on the scene, including maize and potatoes from the New World. Maize seems to have fallen under the prohibition relatively quickly, which I've seen postulated may have been due to the fact that it adopted the name "corn," which was used in various countries in Europe to refer to some of the five grains, which may have led to a concern about confusion with them. Potatoes, though, only Rabbi Danzig seems to have raised a concern about, and thankfully no other rabbis have agreed.
As mentioned, the prohibition against eating kitniyot on Passover is one that applies exclusively to Ashkenazic Jews, or, loosely speaking, those from the northern half of Europe (though that's a terrible definition that I'm ashamed of myself for). Though the rabbis of the Talmud are clear that only five grains, defined commonly today as wheat, barley, rye, spelt, and oats, can become true chametz, or leaven, which is categorically prohibited on Passover, in the 13th century we see signs of a ban on kitniyot, or other grains and legumes similar to those five, enacted by rabbis of the time. While the ban on chametz is one that is a direct mitzvah, or commandment, of the utmost severity, the ban on kitniyot is a gezeirah, or rabbinical decree, and thus of a lesser severity. On a practical level, for example, it is forbidden for a Jew to own chametz over the course of Passover, but not for him/her to own kitniyot.
The fact that no other rabbis agreed and potatoes did not become kitniyot is not something to brush off, as historically the consensus has swung toward stringency. For example, take peanuts. There had been various customs over time as far as whether peanuts were kitniyot, and the non-kitniyot faction was quite strong, with some still following it to this day. Even Rabbi Moshe Feinstein, one of the most prominent decisors of halacha in the 20th century, believed that ideally, peanuts should not be kitniyot because they were not a factor at the time that the ban was enacted. However, the consensus overall has since become that they are, and there's an additional factor which has cemented it- the rise of industrial-level kashrut certification. Since certification for many mass-produced products is in the hands of a limited number of large organizations, it is the decision of these organizations as far as what is permitted and what is prohibited (and then the decision of the consumer whether to trust the kashrut level of that organization). Since the main kashrut organizations relied on other rabbinic figures who banned peanuts as kitniyot, it became practically impossible to find kosher-for-Passover certified peanut products in the US. A similar question arose more recently as far as quinoa, but overall with a different result- while this is basically IMMEDIATELY brushing the 20 year rule, in 1999 the Star K, a prominent kashrut certifier, certified quinoa as kosher for Passover, which was a major step toward preventing them from going down the same route as peanuts.