I'm going to leave the question of whether late 19th Century or early 20th Century police forces ever turned to real-life individuals like Sherlock Holmes to another expert, but one bit of historical insight I can put into play here is that it is critically important to understand a major issue that complicates the question a great deal, namely, that police as we understand them in the early 21st Century were a relatively new part of everyday life in the late 19th Century in Europe and the United States.
What was even newer still was the idea of doing systematic criminal investigation using forensic techniques or gathering evidence methodically. (Arthur Conan Doyle has Sherlock Holmes saying as much frequently in the stories.) As the historian Eric Monkkonen pointed out in his book Police in Urban America, 1860-1920, "For us to comprehend the blundering, ignorance, inefficiency, incompetence, and general confusion of the nineteenth-century police when dealing with crime requires an imaginative leap over a great distance." In the new mid-19th Century police forces established in Western nations, "the art of criminal detection bore more than a little resemblance to divination" and the new police "spent the most useful of their long hours on duty reporting open sewers, shooting stray dogs, and arresting drunks".
Monkkonen is laying it on pretty thick, but he's describing a general consensus among historians about the origins of modern police forces. Nobody had a "proper police background" as we might think of it today until later in the 20th Century, including even the specific legal rules or permissions to operate as authorized agents of municipal or local governments. (As Monkkonen puts it, 19th Century police were "semiliterate members of the working class wearing outfits that they thought looked like servants' livery, charged with duties which no one clearly understood".).
[3] The Place of Private Police in Society: An Area of Research for the Social Sciences, by Theodore M. Becker.
So in some sense the question the OP is asking can really only be posed in a more systematic way about the circumstances under which mid to late 20th Century police or law enforcement have brought in outside consultants into investigations, and when those consultants might have been licensed as private detectives (or other professionals with some connection to the legal system like bounty hunters etc.).
So in the intintial groups of detective forces from 1842 to 1869 were there increasing standards? Or was it still just another promotion within a "good ol' boys system"? For lack of better description it sounds like there was still a terrifying amount of quality control.
To your point about "quality control," London's Metropolitan Police in general did indeed suffer from major issues. For example, many police officers demonstrated an apparent inability to stay sober while in uniform, with the year 1863 alone seeing the dismissal of 215 officers due to drunkenness [1].
It's also worth noting that modern detective work is even newer than modern policing: The London Metropolitan Police was created with the passage of the Metropolitan Police Act in 1829, and at the time of its creation, it didn't have a detective department. At the time, there was substantial political opposition to the idea idea that police officers might go "undercover" or walk about the city in plainclothes to gather information about criminal activities [1], so initially London's Metropolitan Police solely consisted of uniformed officers who couldn't officially engage in many of the activities that we associate with modern "detective work," even when it came to basic forms of surveillance.
Attitudes in London started to change in the early 1840's, when political winds shifted in large part due to several high profile crime incidents, not the least of which was a series of assassination attempts against Queen Victoria. The first of these took place in 1840, when Queen Victoria was 4 months pregnant with her first child, and a man succeeded in ambushing her and Prince Albert and firing several shots at them (though he missed); the second occurred in 1842 when a different man ambushed the Queen (though his pistol failed to fire). Around this time, public perception of the police shifted from being skeptical of giving police too much power, to criticizing the police for being ineffectual at stopping crime [2], and in the summer of 1842, London's Metropolitan Police established its first permanent detective department, initially consisting of 8 detectives, and expanding to 207 detectives in 1869.
That said, even as respect for detectives grew among the middle class during this period, the majority of policing was not detective work, and this was true of private agencies that people would hire in situations where they didn't want to rely on the public police force: even though "private detective agencies" existed during this period, most of the work that they did was more akin to private security. (For a high profile example from the US, the Pinkerton National Detective Agency might have been a detective agency in name, but most of its work ranged from what you might associate with a private security force or private military corporation. [3]).
Wow that's amazing to think about it. It seems like there were all kinds of perspectives that don't match up witch could lead to...misperceptions. But what I would love to know is what we're the state of art forensics for solving crimes at the time. Were they making plaster forms of footprints or anything like that?