In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Yeah, between the rigged SCOTUS and entirely corrupt GOP, and red state legislatures asking for a constitutional convention, it would difficult for DeSantis to pull it off. /s.
My dude, they have guns. We're not talking about those few isolated cops that got beaten, I am talking about a literal coup in which you'd have to defeat an actual organized police or military force there to stop it.
Sure, but I am replying to a comment dooming about DeSantis becoming some kind of American Ceasar. It just ain't gonna happen, and the fact that a bunch of obese dipshits took an unguided tour in the capital building does NOT change that. Like, I don't think that any of you understand that for a coup to be successful, you NEED to have the consent of the military and police forces (the guys with all the guns). They weren't ever getting that. No freaking way.
Like, do you really imagine it going down any other way? You NEED the consent of the military. It doesn't work otherwise because they'd just shoot you. With their guns that they have. That are bigger than any "bins of guns" that might be present. The only scenario in which this type of coup works is if the heavily armed crack squad never arrives. You guys like referencing Handmaid's Tale a lot. Well, in that book, the military was complicit in it, handing control over to the rebels.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
But of course, this is r/politics where Jan 6 was essentially the catastrophe to end all catastrophes.
The opposite of “woke” is actually “ignorant”. Desantis’ lawyers defined woke as someone thinking there are systemic injustices in society that need to be addressed, the opposite of which is simply ignorance.
And lets take the Jan 6 scenario to its extreme - lets say they isolated and murdered a bunch of Democratic politicians. What then? They just... hand the keys to the nation to a bunch of dumb rubes? No, they'd have eventually been swarmed by heavily armed military and killed by the dozens and the survivors would all be awaiting life sentences in supermax. Actually, in this scenario the liberals of r/politics might have finally gotten their dream realized - Trump in prison.
DeSantis idolizes Hungary’s Orban and is doing everything he can get away with over the last four plus years. America will cease to be a constitutional republic if it gives DeSantis four years as POTUS.
Close would be like heavy fighting in the streets from armed paramilitary factions or some aspects of government temporarily switching allegiances. Things like that. Think yourself lucky to be so short sighted as not actually know or understand what a truly effective coup attempt looks like.
Simple fact is that every coup in history that ever succeeded or even got close had the consent of at least a portion of the military and police. This one had neither - in fact they were incredibly far from ever having that. Trump famously alienated every aspect of the military industrial complex.
But I guess r/politics really does think the president has the sole power to completely overthrow the entire government. Interesting.