You're getting way, way, way ahead of yourself in terms of both possibilities and imagination. Since you are concerned, speak to an attorney and get their advice, and possibly retain them to look into the matter.
There is no defamation here. Also, if the police really had decided you have an illegal grow, and a judge had agreed, they'd likely have searched already. At this point they are just investigating (or have investigated and closed the case).
You are imagining a whole host of possible (and both probable and improbable) scenarios. Regardless, the police probably believe what they are saying, and even if they do not, police are allowed to lie. But there would be no point to them lying, it's a waste of their time to investigate something they know isn't anything. And yes you are free to ask people if other people are growing marijuana.
Your bias against the police has made you far more paranoid than you need to be. Have you actually spoken to the police about any of this?
How is it imagination when the police are lying to my neighbors about my moral character and as a brown person who has almost been murdered by police at a "routine traffic stop" which was profiling (I have a clear driving history with zero points or warnings) and no knock warrants are common...
If you have nothing to hide, the "quickest" way to resolve your issue would be to contact the police and offer to let them walk through and be done with the issue. You can always consult with an attorney and go from there if you have some other concern about what they might find or do.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
The specifics of the questions they asked your neighbors are very important. No cop in Colorado is going to care about a "marijuana smell" coming from the house, it's an incredibly odd question.
The bias is due to pigs nearly murdering me for being the victim of a crime and racial profiling. I don't want any of these murders anywhere near me or my family. Police have entered homes for far less and killed people for no reason before. It happens so often in this stupid country people just accept it as normal.
The other option would be to do nothing and go about your business. If you're doing everything right, the police shouldn't be able to get a warrant to search.
Unfortunately, there isn’t enough information to provide you with any more advice than what /u/abluexell has already said, it seems like your best options are to...