So it would probably depend on a person's level of education and their access/proximity to literate culture, ie nobility, monastic orders, the clergy, and so on, but we have a lot of gaps to fill in and in all likelihood its probably not as exciting as you think. It also might not quite be what you're expecting!
A few notes to start with. We cannot simply assume the practices and beliefs of the Anglo-Saxons were similar to their continental antecedents in western Europe and Scandinavia. Nor should we look to the later Icelandic sagas that dominate our understanding of "Norse mythology" as a similar culture we can supplement our scattered understanding with. There are a lot of reasons for this, but they're largely subsidiary to the overall point.
There are other examples of pre-Christian sites having some importance which held over after conversion. For some time pre-Christian sites were maintained, Robin Fleming points to some likely spots of judicial severity, ie places for executions or places to dispose of the bodies from said executions, as probably pagan sites of importance, indicating that a lingering association with these sites was maintained. We also see this in some of the physical remaining marks, the white horse of Uffinon was noted on in the Middle Ages, though our sources are much later than your time frame (the horse is dated to pre-historic times in Britain, probably long before the Romans even reached the island).
Literate people of the time period are the ones that are best represented in surviving texts, by simple virtue of the fact that they are the ones making the texts. We might occasionally get a glimpse into what "mythologies" the people might believe in, but they will only ever be glimpses. So if you're looking to find out what Wulfric the stable hand thought about elves or dragons and so on, you're kind of out of luck for this time frame, but that doesn't mean there was no room for what we might call the supernatural or superstitious among the learned classes of people, just that everything we know comes through highly filtered sources or is conjecture based on other belief systems or projecting beliefs backwards in history. As an aside, if you're curious particularly on folklore of later England, specifically Cornwall, /u/itsallfolklore is the go to!
The people most likely to be literate or exposed to literary culture in England at this time are those who are in proximity to the Church. This includes, but is not limited to, monks, priests, bishops, and so on up the food chain. We know that in at least Alfred's case some level of literacy, including in Latin, was expected of royalty and probably there was some limited vernacular education among the nobility as a whole. Thankfully some of these Church, and Church adjacent, figures left some writings on these topics, though not in a direct way. For example, the venerable Bede, a monk, wrote about how the people of England were taken with using amulets to ward off illness, though as a respectable Churchman he believed that such magic was impossible and that the amulets were, at best, useless. Other monastic sources such as penitentials, books on what penance people should do for various sins (though their actual implementation is a can of worms we need not concern ourselves with here) get us glimpses at other practices that irked, or did not, Church authorities. Leaving out small offerings of grain for local spirits for example was tolerated but sacrifices of animals were right out.
Now these sources did not entirely discount the supernatural (as we would define it), and even medical texts of this time mentions the need for cures for various ailments that elves could inflict on both people and livestock. It is a rather simple leap to perhaps believe that the offerings that were tolerated by the Church were meant to placate such beings, though I do not believe that the connection has been explicitly made by a scholar. These supernatural beings/forces were first and foremost dangerous by people who believed in them and to be avoided, placated, or defended against, not sought out. There may have been other, perhaps even more extreme, examples of cynical, or theologically orthodox, Churchmen like Bede, but our base of sources is quite scattered and incomplete.
Other literary sources, and quasi-relics, such as the epic Beowulf might preserve some beliefs, though texts such as Beowulf are problematic to use, as its date and place of composition, as well as intent, is still hotly debated. However it is telling that within the text of the poem the evil of Grendel and his mother is traced back through to Biblical times and to the personage of Cain. Other mythological figures are mentioned, sea monsters, a dragon (though a non-flying, ground dwelling one, and both wyrm and draca are used to refer to it but we are light on a lot of details (though it is quite long)) appears, and scholars have spilled a great deal of ink over the appearance of words that can mean giants, might mean valkyries, and perhaps hint at trolls, and so on. How seriously were these beings taken though is the real question, were they the products of a time long gone or did they still roam the Earth? The poet(s) does not really give the audience a firm answer, though given the general theme of decline and decay present in Beowulf... However, overly relying on a work like Beowulf to inform our understanding of Anglo-Saxon mythology is likely a bad idea. Other literary sources such as the "Letter of Alexander to Aristotle" take place in far off and exotic locales so their own supernatural elements cannot be transposed to the English landscape.
Tl:dr, Our sources are so incomplete and filtered we can glean very little about the superstitions and beliefs of every day people in Anglo-Saxon England. What we do know comes from literate contexts that were apprehensive about these superstitions. This apprehension could be in their effectiveness ala Bede, or in their power, ala popular charms to ward off illness or cure elf diseases.
from an article that is anticipated in early 2020, in Folklore (the journal of the Folklore Society) that demonstrates that even as late as the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, legends associated with these elves (i.e. pixies) of the south west of Britain - Cornwall v. Devon - were strikingly different. It is difficult to say what this evidence indicates, but at the very least, it suggests that oral narratives were not easily travelling from one end of the peninsula to the other. We would expect this sort of difference to be amplified a thousand-fold when considering the Celtic speakers and the English speakers in the ninth century, for example. And for that matter, we could expect a great deal of variation separating Kent from Northumbria - but that is only speculation!
Exactly Yours is a great overview of what is known and of the many things that cannot be easily known. Well done.
Your reply is really good, thank you. Overall, it seems like my question is one with a very complicated and nuanced answer, with not a lot of certainty. Even something I thought I had already learned about, I.e. that dragons weren’t seen as more than giant serpents until later Times, is contradicted by your monastic chroniclers of Iona’s account. If I want to better understand this topic I’ll have to learn a lot more, about specific kingdoms in general too. Happy 2020 btw.
That’s interesting, thank you. I didn’t know that many “folk magic” remedies have turned out to have legitimate medical utility. The more I learn about the “Dark Ages” the more I realize that my perception of it and the people who lived in it is off. For example, I recently learned that witch trials and the belief in witchcraft wasn’t as widespread during this period as in later times. I do however realize that comparing the extent of witch trials in the “Dark Ages” with that of later times is probably more nuanced and complicated than simply saying, “they weren’t as common.” But it’s still cool to learn that Monty Python and the Holy Grail doesn’t quite capture what the Dark Ages were really like.
OP's question is difficult to answer for several reasons: homogeneity over the Anglo-Saxon centuries and throughout the English-speaking lands did not likely exist in any significant way; and homogeneity is not something one finds to any absolute way within a single pre-industrial European village let alone in a geographic expanse, so we can expect that diversity of beliefs was common during the period in question.
That said, we can project back to understand that since a wide swath of Europeans from Ireland to Sweden and Brittany to Iceland believed in elves and that they are documented in the earliest examples of writing in English that these supernatural beings were well established and thriving during the period in question - and this was likely something that English and Celtic speakers shared during the period. But were their traditions identical (to address the question raised by /u/tholovar)? Almost certainly not.