Do we know if this was a general opinion of the masses, or more like sour grapes from other church leaders/nobility seeing their previously spectacular cathedrals overshadowed?
So, the term Gothic was applied to architecture not by contemporaries (as I might’ve implied), but by commentaries written later during the Renaissance. Due to the emphasis on the classical Greco-Roman civilizations, the arts tended to swing that way in an attempt to copy and build upon the ancient styles. Gothic architecture was therefore seen as ugly in comparison. However, Christopher Wren, the famous English architect who designed Saint Paul’s Cathedral in London, critiqued the term Gothic, and instead referred to these French cathedrals as being built in the “Saracen style”, since it reminded him of the complicated designs of Islamic architecture.
So, it was basically later architects and artists active during the Renaissance who applied this term since they tended to prefer emulating the more classical architectural styles from ancient Greece and Rome. Gothic architecture, however, experienced a bit of a revival during the nineteenth century, as seen by structures like the Parliament Building in Budapest, St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York, and the main campus buildings at the University of Chicago.
It begins with Gothic architecture, although this is something of an incidental step. Gothic architecture, developed and used from the High Middle Ages through the Renaissance, was characterized by an impression of narrowness and height; buildings in the Gothic style managed to be higher and narrower than earlier, Romanesque ones through the use of the slender and pointed Gothic or ogival arch, clusters of slender columns, and flying buttresses (basically, the skeleton of an arch, placed perpendicularly to a wall in order to support it). During the Early Modern period, the humanities and sciences of the Middle Ages - then conceived of as a savage "dark age" between the enlightened eras of the Roman Empire and the classically-inspired Renaissance - were typically rated on a scale from "utterly barbaric" to "less barbaric, but still barbaric", and by the time Batty Langley wrote Ancient Architecture, Restored, and Improved in 1742, this style was seen as "coarse" and "artless" and needed to be rehabilitated; where today we see it as having important feats of engineering, it was then generally considered to be ugliness incarnate essentially derived from the loss of culture caused by the destruction of Rome by the (see?) Visigoths.