When you sold the mobile home, you should have had a stub on the title to send to the state letting them know you are no longer the owner. Mobile homes are covered by the DMV.
Yes but when I went downtown to transfer it they told me that the new owners needed to send in some paperwork as well and they are refusing to do so. Im trying to corporate with them as much as possible. But with them not willing to do there part. I just fill like I’m stuck.
Not a lawyer. I hear good things about certified letters. After trying the better option of contacting the DMV as others have suggested, I'd send a polite letter telling the individual(s) that you operated under the assumption you sold them the trailer, but as they have not filed the paperwork to take ownership of it with the DMV, they appear to be behind on rent payments as that haven't made an annual payment in 9 years.
Technically it's still your personal property since trailers are not considered real property. If they did not transfer the title, but they have possession of it you'd be shooting yourself in the foot if you send a demand letter to the current "owner." They could simply transfer the title and claim they just bought it, in which you'd still be on the hook for all that time it was still titled to you. I'd tread lightly, and look for any proof of the transaction. Even without proof, you're not in possession of the trailer, and you're not responsible for the taxes. I'd forward the information of the buyer to the DMV with certified mail, and inform them since you sold the trailer, and you no longer are claiming ownership over it, that you cannot pay the taxes on it. Either they will choose to persue the other person, or they'll drop the tax liability. On top of that, the only recourse they have is to seize the trailer to recoup the taxes, which would be an unpleasant surprise for the current "owner.".
Typically the burden would fall on the new owner. The State will make them pay the back taxes to transfer the title, if they refuse, the state can seize the trailer to pay for it.
Maybe not the most solid "legal" advise but I'd send a letter and let the state deal with it. Don't pay good money for another person's delinquency.