Joking aside, an answer to this question must come from an anthropologist / paleo-archaeologist rather than from a historian, since clothing by faaaar predates written history. To cite from the rules:
Of course, all of this is relative. Even within Mesoamerican society there were distinctions between "high" and "low" dress, ranging from choice of fabrics to the use of sandals. The Spanish, upon their arrival, found Mesoamerican clothing practices among the stratified, complex, sedentary groups to be outside their norms for a cultured society. This just goes to show the constructed nature of human societies. Both elite Aztecs and itinerant Spanish, however, could both agree that clothing acted as a delineation between "civilized" and "barbarian." No discourse could even begin before that distinction was made, showing both parties they were operating on similar cultural plane. Even if their definitions of "clothed" differed, both groups knew intrinsically that they were not "unclothed.".
The imagery in this painting is complex, but the most important points to keep in mind for your question is how each party is dressed. The Chicomozteca are shown in coarse animal skin capes and simple breech-cloths, whereas the Toltecs wear full body suits reminiscent of the tlahuiztli overalls of elite Aztec warriors, made of cotton sewn all over with feathers. They are adorned with elaborate headdresses of resplendent feathers and one carries a long spear tipped with obsidian, as opposed to the bows and arrows of the Chicomozteca.
There's really no answer that is going to cover all societies at all times, so I'll focus on one particular time and place to give a single example which may elucidate general principles regarding taboos around nudity. That place and time is Mesoamerica around about the 11th-12th Centuries CE, and the particular people are the Mexica, who would become the core component of the Aztec Triple Alliance.
>While there is a great deal of overlap, questions about early human history (beyond the written record), or proto-human history may be better suited to /r/AskAnthropology, and users should consider X-posting such questions there.
A defining moment in the Mexica origin, and indeed with all of the Nahua groups who trace their origin to Aztlan, is being summoned forth from the caves of Chicomoztoc by the Toltecs, who they saw as the originators of civilization. of nascent Aztecs emerging from caves to be greeted by the Toltecs. In the image linked above, the peoples leaving Chicomoztoc are shown on the bottom left, with the Toltecs facing them on the bottom right.
Encoded in this image are elements of the Mesoamerican distinction between "wild" and "civilized." The Chichimecs, clothed in skins and living subsistence lives hunting with bows and arrows, are contrasted with the Toltecs, who wear elaborate costumes, supported by a society of farmers, weavers, featherworkers, and others. Following Sahagún, the Aztecs recognized a gradation between the "teochichimeca" (true chichimecs) who lived entirely nomadic lives, the "tamime" who knew something of sedentary ways and might practice some horticulture, and the "otomi" who were an ethnic group in the northern part of the Basin of Mexico who were entirely sedentary but still seen as "barbarians" by the Nahuas.
The description here matches Sahagún's "teochichimeca" who "had their homes nowhere" but "only went about traveling, wandering; they went about crossing the streams" (pp. 171-172).
You are referring to the Tolteca-Chichimeca ? That's an interesting one, because I shouldn't have called it a codex, but by its actual title, the Historia Tolteca-Chichimeca. It is actually a fusion of Nahua art with Spanish style book, with the art interspersed with explanatory text.
The Chichimecs were, in Aztec thought, uncivilized nomads. Yet they were not necessarily looked down upon. They were seen as skilled in hunting, adroit with a bow and arrow, and knowledgeable of wild plants, both medicinal and psychotropic. They were noble savages, with an emphasis on the nobility, given that each of the three groups that made up the Aztec Triple Alliance derived their ancestry from the Chichimecs.
Yet, to become full fledged members of the urban culture of central Mesoamerica, these Chichimec-derived groups would need to undergo a process of civilization. For the Mexica, this was literally a divine initiation. Shortly after leaving Aztlan, the group that would become known as the Mexica were instructed by their patron god to seize a group of "mimixcoa," essentially a group of teochichimecs. Their god then instructed them to sacrifice these captives as tribute.
Once the sacrifice was complete, the group was given a name by their god, "Mexitin," which defined them as separate not only from the other groups migrating from Aztlan, but, more importantly, from the wild groups whose lands they were traversing. Attendant to this naming was the receipt of certain gifts, including feathered headdresses, bows and arrows, and a type of woven carrying bag. The Codex Boturini makes the transition to semi-civilized even more explicit by dropping the Aztlan name glyph at this point and literally showing an eagle dropping off these gifts to the group.
Along the way to what would become their home in Tenochtitlan, the Mexica picked up other trappings of civilization, including farming, the atlatl, calendrics, and cotton garments. They would also split with some of their companions, notably at Lake Patzcuaro. At that lake, a certain group petitioned their god to stay permanently, but the patron god of the Mexica had other plans. He instead counseled the main group to abscond with the clothes of the dissidents while they swam in the lake, leaving the unable to pursue the main body of the Mexica in their shameful nakedness.
In Mesoamerica, the "clothed vs. unclothed" distinction was used to separate the "civilized" from the "uncivilized." On the one side were people who used the Mesoamerican calendar, grew maize, lived in houses, hunted with an atlatl, and wore clothes woven from maguey or cotton. On the other side were nomads who subsisted on wild game shot with arrows, and wore the rough skins of their prey. Clothes were a highly visible shorthand for a whole suite of other cultural practices which could mark an individual as either a member of the cultured in-group, or savage out-group.
Question: have any examples of Aztec clothing survived to the present day? I’d love to see the kind of clothing, accessories and shoes that an Aztec commoner and noble would wear. Did any garments managed to be preserved to be studied in the modern era?
There are scattering of elite items, notably the "" currently held in Vienna (), but I'm not aware of any "common" items of clothing from this period that have surivived, albeit the archaeology of Aztec clothes is not something into which I have extensively delved.
That said, a lot of women's fashion persisted far into the colonial period and even today. While Nahua male elites adopted Spanish dress as they assimilated into that power structure, women had less pressure to do so, and non-elite women even less so. The huipil blouse which was the standard article of clothing for Nahua women still exists, and there are a few examples from the colonial era which could easily have been plucked from 16th century depictions.
This itself is an evolution from peri-Conquest/early Colonial codices which were produced purely in pictorial fashion, though leaving room for Spanish glosses to be added; . Others were produced in this period (or perhaps are even surviving pre-Hispanic works) in a more traditional style,.
has scans of a number of Aztec codices (look under "Writing" then "Aztec"), though they do not have them all. This is in part because the definition of a "codex" is fraught with difficulties, particularly since many works incorporated European text and painting styles into them as the syncretism of Nahua and Spanish cultures progressed.
Thus we have a perfect "just-so-story" illustrating the principal of structuralism, the anthropological theory associated with Claude Levi-Strauss. He hypothesized that cultures use dichotomous comparisons to define themselves and their society. These comparisons could include "cooked vs. raw" or "person vs. animal" and these oppositional categories could be used to delineate a society, the ultimate pairing being "us vs. them.".
That said, . There is also , an NEA project, which collects a lot of links to various works online.
There are scholarly works on particular codices as well, though not as many as there should be. Diaz and Rodgers (1993) Codex Borgia, is basically just a brief page by page description. Rajagopalan's (2019) Portraying the Aztec Past is a deep dive into not just the content but also the production techniques of three related codices: Boturini, Azcatitlan, and Aubin. Quiñones Keber (1995) Codex Tellariano-Remensis is, like Diaz and Rodgers, a page by page analysis of a single codex, but is more in-depth and gives more context.