If you walked in on a shirtless female subordinate and refused to leave even to allow them to get dressed? Yes, I think it's safe to say that would be handled differently. Although maybe not at your job, since they handled this incident poorly. Do you have an HR department that you can go to? Or someone above your boss? Because I do think it's warranted.
Yikes. Then your HR is extraordinarily bad too. At this point, I'd say document what happened with dates, times, and as much information as you can recall. Save that somewhere where your employer will not have access to it. Then, if the same thing happens again, document that as well. A one time incident wouldn't qualify as harassment, but if it happens again, then it might be worth pursuing.
I contacted our HR company that my boss directed me to and they told me “we are a resource for the employer not the employee” and advised me that they would not hear my case. No joke. So my only resource was the person who I reported to initially.
Are you sure that would apply in this exact instance? A one time moment of the supervisor entering the room and then quickly exiting after being informed by the employee that they are undressed would be a one time instance that wouldn't elevate to harassment on its own. Being informed and remaining present would seem to cross the line, no?
You're right and that's pretty much what I wrote above. On its own, it would be nothing. Repeat occurrences however, would begin to stray into harassment territory because you'd have to start questioning coincidence at some point.
Thats immaterial to this case because thats not what happened anyway. OP was undressed, the supervisor walked in, was informed that OP was undressed and did not excuse themselves. That can definitely be argued as harassment.
If I'm walking by and my hand somehow grazes a coworkers butt, its an accident. If my hand touches a coworkers butt, and I leave it there, thats troubled territory. Its the fact that the supervisor was informed and stayed. On top of this, the business and its HR contractor had a wildly inappropriate reaction to OP reporting it as well.