Not really. Women are only allowed to be treated by women according to their backwards ways. If you stop educating and training women to handle medical complications around pregnancy maternal and infant mortality would increase dramatically which makes any increase in fertility rates negligible.
Add onto this that fertility rates are much higher in less economically developed areas and I, personally, suspect that this and any further laws which oppress women will increase fertility rates.
Yeah but I suspect that this statement is made under the assumption that these women have a choice in whether or not they get impregnated.
I find this highly suspect. While infant and mother mortality would definitely increase, the probability is still low enough that on average you’d see a large increase in birth rate (assuming women forgo education, begin having birth early, and continue to have birth through 20s).
So you're right that the Taliban probably wouldn't have existed without the decision of the US to fund anti-soviet fighters but it probably also wouldn't have existed without the decision to push the extremist religious ideology by the ISI.
Uh, the Taliban are not Wahhabist, they subscribe to a completely different branch of radical Islam, although in practice it's not that different.
No, see my comment above, wahhabism is not the only branch of radical Islam. The Taliban are the product of the radical Pakistani madrasas teaching refuges of the Afghan-Soviet war. They subscribed to the Deobandi interpretation of islam.
The US just gave Pakistan money to fund the mujahideen in order to fight the soviets, it was Pakistan and, in particular, the ISI that helped flame radical Islam. Americas major sin here is not paying enough attention to where their money was spent, not intentionally creating radical terrorist groups.
I know people here are very US-centric but not everything is directly the fault of the US, America played a role for sure but there were dozens of regional and international actors involved in creating the current mess in Afghanistan. Pakistan has had, by far, the most direct role (other than maybe the Soviets). By the time the Taliban was created America was long gone and didn't really give a shit what was happening in Afghanistan.
The mujahideen were very diverse and can't simply be described as precursors to the taliban, the taliban started out by fighting against the mujahideen, although plenty of mujahideen fighters would later join the taliban. It wasn't the US running the madrassas expounding the extreme deobandi ideology that influenced the taliban.
The whole situation is very messy and complicated but the extreme religious angle came from Pakistan. Americans didn't care who was getting weapons or why they were fighting the soviets as long as they were fighting the soviets. It's a lack of oversight and foresight that they are guilty of. But it's Pakistan and the ISI that DIRECTLY set the stage for the extremist takeover of afghanistan.
Yeah, I'm not disagreeing, I'm just saying you can't pin it ENTIRELY on the Americans. My whole point is that the current situation is the result of dozens of different actors making decisions and you can't boil it down to simply US created Taliban which is the basic narrative you often hear on reddit. US funding the mujahideen didn't HAVE to result in extremist Islamic groups overrunning the country, it's only in combination with the actions taken by other groups (notably the ISI) that the Taliban became a thing.
More like giving weapons and money to somebody to organize the defense of a neighbourhood knowing that some of the people they're hiring and arming are probably gang members.