Here's the thing. That would be illegal for a W2. For a genuine 1099, that's legal. But if you can't be a 1099, then it's not legal.
Really state matters here. Lots of labor law violations and tax fraud. Are you paying quarterly estimated taxes?
You're also missing out on Social Security benefits, and unemployment--he's not paying into unemployment. You need to be reclassified.
We're still a 1099, but he decides everything for us and he plans on eventually switching all employees over to a w2. And our pay checks come through his company account.
I've only worked for him for a month now, but I'll be meeting with my bank's advisor to set all that up.
I have all the basic stuff for carpentry, but he supplies the power tools and I just keep them in my vehicle. Eventually I'll sub contract which is one of the big reason I'm learning the labor laws.
Sorry, what I meant is that you probably cannot legally be a 1099. It's like saying "you can't rob a bank" and someone answering, "but I just did...".
That's what I couldn't figure out in my google searches. He claims everything he's doing is 100% legal so I assumed what I read was only for w2s.
One of the guys I work with told me before I started working there they use to do w2s but for some reason boss man stopped and made eveyone go back to 1099s.
Based on your answers to the previous questions, we believe the worker may be misclassified as an independent contractor.
That is what I was given at the end of the assessment and one of the questions asked "Was the worker previously classified as an employee by the business?".
I can tell you exactly what the "for some reason" is. He saves money. And you have to pay his share of payroll taxes. So he saves even more money. You're paying his bills.
I find out the workers comp bs real fast lol. I pulled a muscle a few weeks ago doing concrete work for him and had to miss that following Monday and Tuesday because my back hurt so bad. All he told me was "you still need to come into work because you're just fucking over your coworkers when you miss. Once you start moving around and get to working your back will feel better".
This is making a lot more sense now. I've always felt that everyone should be on w2s and not 1099s, but I never knew it was illegal.
You are correct. Everyone should be a W2, they are illegally misclassified as 1099s. Read again, those are your options. Your list is long, and correct. Even half of those things would indicate a requirement to W2 everyone.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
I went ahead and reported to the state, because he knows exactly what he's doing is illegal and even after all that he's still trying to find ways to fuck us. Like I said, I've only been working for him around a month now and he's trying everything he can to squeeze money out of us and not his pockets.