If the corporation has been dissolved, then it's very likely that any board meetings that occurred after its dissolution are irrelevant. The owners need to talk to an HOA lawyer about resurrecting the corporation and bringing its filings back into good standing, before they start going after 20% of their voters.
What's likely is that your HOA will act against the owner, not the tenant. Once any procedural irregularities are ironed out, if the owner is in violation of the HOA's rules, (see clause 11), which create a debt towards the HOA owed by the owner. If that debt goes unpaid, the HOA can place a lien against the property; if the debt grows to be substantial and the HOA feels it's in their interests to spend the money, the HOA can foreclose on that lien to force the sale of the property.
Separately, the HOA can take the normal civil action against Jammy Dodger for damaging its property, via small claims court if they do not pay voluntarily. The HOA _may_ also be able to assess that damage to the owner, as above (clauses 6 and 11 taken together suggest that a fine amounting to the cost to repair damaged property owned by the HOA would be a reasonable fine, if otherwise supported by the bylaws and declaration).
The state's condominium code also has fairly specific procedural requirements around notifying the owners when the bylaws are changed.
Can the board get an injunction against the homeowner to terminate the lease early, subject to lease provisions?
If the last meeting is void and the five-year provision null, that makes Donut Hole's lease in violation of the rules. The majority do not want them to be. Will changing the bylaws and then assessing fines against only Jammy Dodger for the same conduct as Donut Hole lead to issues?
Thank you for your consideration. I'm having trouble finding what a reasonable fine would be for violating the covenants. Any recommendations on how to calculate a reasonable fine?
I don't have any specific advice for you on this, and for continuing violations, assessing what's reasonable is often very hard. The truth is that this is a preference of the members, and that a violation of this rule produces no direct damages, so there's no basis to estimate off of.
I would guess that if your membership votes for it, and once the issues with your defunct corporation are ironed out, a fine on the order a hundred dollars per infraction, assessed monthly for ongoing infractions, is probably reasonable. A thousand probably isn't. However, you want a local professional's input on this, as there may be relevant case law.
Only if the tenant is also party to that proceeding, which in turn depends on whether you have any legal basis to sue the tenant over the owner's breach of the covenants. You might not. If they aren't party to the proceedings, the courts should not impair their rights like this.
An injuction _could_ compel the owner to terminate the tenancy when the lease ends, potentially, but you'd still be dealing with enforcement via a contempt hearing if they fail to do so. Again, it's more money spent, in the long run, than just fining the owner and letting them sort it out.
Realistically, it's probably not worth the hassle. Your state doesn't have a statutory framework for HOA-initiated evictions. In states that do, I'd suggest it might be worthwhile, but having to invent the process as you go is a large risk and a large expense. Charging the owner based on infractions is probably the more practical solution.
Jammy Dodger may not be party to the covenants in the first place, and you might not have the legal power to assess fines against him. Does their lease include a provision agreeing to follow the HOA's rules? Is it worth your HOA's time and money to pursue someone who is likely to move away, and may be hard to find afterwards, when there's someone with money (or at least an asset) and a clear legal obligation to pay?
I understand that you want Jammy Dodger gone as quickly as you can, and you should absolutely talk to someone local about your options, but I _strongly_ suspect you aren't going to get that wish.
Jammy Dodger is an owner, so no lease binds them. The covenant runs with the title. We aim to prevent a lease from Jammy Dodger to Rhonda Renter. Will fining Jammy Dodger if they lease out the property complicate things for Donut Hole if we change the rules to include a 5 year provision?
The HOA cannot force the tenant out, only the property owner or the courts can do that. If the owner leases the property you may be able to fine the owner but you cannot do a thing to the tenant.
Great advice on the calculation and next steps. You're clearly knowledgeable. What's your reckoning on making an additional fine for non-owner occupied residences? I would rather have new people invested in the property and not levy any fines, but might as well pay for repairs if we have to tolerate transient tenants.
As for the rest...if the association was dissolved then you \may\ not have any CC&Rs over ANY of the units. You will need a real estate attorney experienced with HOAs/condo boards to tell you for sure.
Maybe they could compel the owner not to \renew\ the lease, but they cannot force the breaking of a legally executed lease.
As a practical thing in civil matters, the most you can do generally is to stack up monetary fines & judgements against the owner if they fail to comply. It's really tough to actually \force\ action rather than just fine them for doing something.
Good advice, thank you. If we found out which agency Jammy Dodger is going through to rent and sent them a notice that Jammy Dodger is not allowed to lease, do we open ourselves up to tortious interference?
The previous corporation would be in its "winding up" phase and there are limits on what can be done.
This looks like you would need to either get a rescission of the dissolution or would need to get a successor HOA before you can assign any rights or change covenants.