This is part for the course when Israel fights Hamas. Not an escalation insofar as it doesn't really differ from a normal activity there, and certainly not an indication of anything globally.
Now, are there unusual or escalating wars and tensions that can reflect a worrisome trend? Sure. This just isn't one.
Nothing wrong with not knowing things, and it's a complex conflict, so I don't hold that against you!
But war is bad always, because here are two factions fighting, and they would both like friends to help them win.
While as a generalization war ought to be avoided when possible, of course, in this article Israel isn't escalating anything, just doing the good deed of destroying a weapon facility in response to an attack on civilians.
I honestly don't know the situation in Israel well enough, other than there are many problems caused by believing in random crap that makes some piece of land super important culturally, and the Palestinians were displaced because for some reason Hitler's genocide and Holocaust justified giving Israel to europeen Jewish people.
Yeah, it's clear from this comment that you simply aren't educated on the I/P conflict, as you're pretty far off base for pretty much everything you said in that first paragraph.
Why kill an entire population while they are fenced into the last of the land you kills their families for? Just so you can import religious fanatics from other countries (mostly radical separatists people from the USA) because people born and raided there tend to want peace and integration of the entire area. You are just perpetual bullying. Why? None of your Reason are human all of them are about some imagined ancient claim. The people who walked there from Europe after WWII can't be happy with what your generation has done. It is revolting.
US trying to go isolationist ? This is gonna end up badly , without the US to through their weight around , blocs will start to emerge and then we all know what happens is absolute chaos.
Oh but surprise , I don’t know whether you did your research or not but the US has done way too many coups and shit in the past 70 years and ruined many nations , people are just tired of it and it doesn’t help that the American civilians have zero clue about it and say we are the good guys, why does the world hate us you could check Johnny Harris videos about US coups on YouTube and other stuff too ! All I am saying is sure the US might have done good things but it has done A lot of bad things as well , Iraq and WMDs and supporting dictators across the world like in Iran and South America .
The only reason why I am worried about the US going isolationist is that , the US has made the world too dependent on them , once they step back , there will be a huge power vacuum and chaos before the world settles down again and I don’t want to live through that period of time , there will be increasing chances of war as multi polar blocs try to expand their influence like in the pre US hegemony days like the imperial colonial times.
No not at all if you see it from an unbiased prospective, you will find that both parties whether it’s the US or the other countries like Russia/china (who Americans live to antagonize) are both in the grey zone , history is written by the winners and till now the US has been a winner so they have portrayed themselves as nice as possible.
It does not matter where I am from , I am only telling you what the rest of the world thinks about the world , I have seen the US antagonizing china maybe rightly so but what I want to say is even the US has done the same thing to other nations , I mean do you really think it’s only china that’s spying and stealing stuff from countries ? Even the US is doing the same thing , the only reason this is becoming big news is becuz the US needs a new enemy for its population to get used to so that when the US targets china , the civilians will justify it , it was the same with Iraq , every nation does the same dirty things only that the US population thinks it’s a beacon of righteousness and a bastion of freedom (looking at the two party system and the old Hoots in the congress and the corporations) when it’s clearly not , Americans have grown up under the propoganda that US is the best nation to live in while that is the farthest from the truth , most Americans learn abit of reality in college but can’t properly wash off the brainwashing.