It's great you've recognized the signs. There's nothing stopping this company from dumping you at the 11th hour of your internship because "it's just not a good fit".
This company is almost 90% prior service members, so I don't think that would be the case with this one.
I don’t think they’re trying to screw him over. Many service members make for excellent employees, but some can cause a lot of issues. The DOD implemented the program so that employers can get a “tryout” with retiring service members, because otherwise plenty of companies would just not bother taking the risk of hiring one.
Also, in regards to the skillbridge program specifics, I would get my military pay (since I'm still in the military) but work for the other company. With that being said, I am pretty much already not working and getting pay because I have turned over all but a few of my duties, and my command is allowing me time to take care of my personal affairs and out-processing appointments after \26 years of total service.
The company in question wants me to work for them during this time when I am supposed to be taking care of my end of career things, and do it for no additional compensation. As mentioned before, I am fully qualified for this position and would only gain specific company knowledge pertaining to the position which I feel could be done in less than 1 week, and not a 3 month unpaid internship. I truly feel the company is just trying to get me to work for them 3 months early, and not pay me for it.
I can’t advise you whether to take the position or not, but I’m not seeing anything that screams “shady!” This is the whole point of the SkillBridge program.
Could you ask any of the current employees how their transition went and whether it involved SkillBridge?
I'm not trying to ascribe intent to the people involved, rather insisting the OP be aware of the possibility.
When you're not hurting for options (as OP states), opening yourself up to this big of a vulnerability is not good.
Skillbridge is a government program. The government’s paying, so calling it an unpaid internship is disingenuous, like saying that a fellowship is unpaid just because the money’s not coming directly from the employer.