Mandated reporter here. A femur fracture in a child this age is very rare. The femur is the body's strongest bone. Infants aren't mobile enough to do the things older kids do that cause these injuries.
Injuries like these will always trigger an investigation. You will be facing the state with all its resources.
Get an attorney, do not talk to anyone. As the parent, you are currently one of the two main suspects, and the other suspect would be a fool to not try to blame this on you. Like literally if the other parent is smart and gets an attorney, that’s a viable defense. Don’t talk to him, don’t trust CPS to figure this out correctly or quickly, get an attorney.
Doctor co-signing this. Any fracture in a non-mobile infant? That’s statistically the single injury most likely to represent non-accidental trauma of literally any childhood trauma. And a femur!?
Not only is it the strongest bone but it is very painful. I know you weren’t there, but it is hard to imagine your child didn’t scream or show pain. A SCAN team is often called in on these cases for concern of non-accidental trauma (NAT). You definitely need an attorney.
Do everything the SW tells you to do- if it’s get your husband out, do that, so they know you are protecting your children from whom they see as an abuser (right now). Some families have the accused parent move to a friends house or with their parents but make it a real move- don’t pretend and have him over all the time.
Go to every family time visit and bring something comforting for the children. Stay positive when you see them. Do not cry and carry on. Tell them you love them, hold them, and talk with them about following rules in their foster placement (were they placed with family?).
Clean your home and make it sparkle but be sure to leave evidence of children out and about. Have their bedrooms lovingly prepared as if they are coming home any day.
Have enough food in the home for 3 meals and 3 snacks for 5 days for 3-5 people. Make sure there are fruits and vegetables and no cans- well no food- is expired.
Do not smoke inside and get alcohol and weed out of your life for right now. This isn’t the time to be indulging that.