It is possible they be sued by the estate of someone killed by a person who became intoxicated at their facility via over serving, (or living seriously injured victim.) It is not possible to sue simply because they've overserved someone who drives drunk, although the liquor control board tends to be interested in places that habitually engage in overserving, since it is generally not lawful and risks their license to serve alcohol.
It is far less possible for someone who got drunk and crashes and injures themselves to seek recourse through suing them, and it does not remove liability from the driver.
Yes, under Massachusetts law (and this is similar to the law of many other states) bars and clubs can be sued if they serve someone visibly intoxicated or who they knew or should have known was intoxicated who then injures someone else.
I don't practice in Massachusetts but I don't think recovery is limited to wrongful deaths and serious injuries, it's any injury, even mere property damage, caused by the overserved drunken patron.
It isn't in question if one can sue for overserving, if the person they overserved causes an accident. I'd be surprised to learn states exist where that isn't possible. The person who "corrected" me seems to be suggesting no damages need exist, no accident need occur, no harm beyond "person got drunk" in order to have a viable cause of action, and I cannot believe this is the case.
Es as I hit sent before finishing -- I do think you're right in that PI isn't necessary in all jx, but my point was that the fact they serve OPs dad alone, without any damages as a consequence of serving, is not. I wasn't trying to dispute what you were saying here.
That said, I do truly and deeply sympathize with your upset here and frustration. It is extraordinarily hard to deal with a family member's alcoholism and risky behavior. I do hope that you are able to seek support to deal with it as best as you are able, since threatening the club is not going to make an iota of difference as to whether or not your father drinks, or drinks and drives. It would be great to cut off problems at their source like that, but it unfortunately will make no difference.
For overserving without there being any consequence such as an accident? I'd be very surprised to learn that an individual can successfully sue without having damages that can be tied to overserving but I am very interested in the statute you're referencing here.
IANAL and don’t live in Massachusetts but I know in my state that’s definitely a legal claim for a civil lawsuit. Maybe contact the police non-emergency number and tell them you know the club overserves and your dad drives home under the influence? Of course the police may be friendly with the club….
Please read my comments again. I did not say they aren't liable if they overserved and that person causes harm, and that's not what I asked them to clarify. I said that overserving in and of itself is not cause to sue. I asked for a statute the person arguing was using to support an assertion one can sue where no damages exist simply for overserving.
I'd go talk to the local police with your concerns in advance of the club's next big event. They may be willing to patrol and who knows, maybe even arrest someone. Or they may not.. you never know. But I think the potential harm that may be prevented is worth you trying. . A couple of police patrols and arrests oftheir members may get them to clean it upe.
Here's something you can do. You can write a letter to the head of the country club saying "My father Edgar Floortimee is an alcoholic who often gets drunk at your country club and drives. I believe your staff is repeatedly violating Massachusetts law by serving him alcohol when they know or should know he is intoxicated. I have personally witnessed him drive home intoxicated from your club on many occasions. I believe it is only a matter of time before he hurts or kills himself or someone else driving home from your club. If that happens, you should expect that your club will be held fully responsible under Massachusetts law.".
This letter may or may not have any effect. They might keep serving him, they might not. They might show the letter to your father and he might disinherit you and no longer allow you to live in his house.
If you want the letter to be taken more seriously, you could even have a lawyer send such a letter on your behalf. Again they might ignore the letter either way. But these are options you have.