He never said the media needs to leave him alone. He said his family failed to protect his wife. The media started the narrative that it was for their privacy. She's an actress. Of course the media is going to play a part in her life. What they weren't ok with was the media painting her like a Disney villain for being black.
Im confused what this article is supposed to prove. This is from before they were even married. And it explicitly talks about how the media keeps painting her as a Disney villain.
The problem is that the media are going to talk shit when ever they can because it earns them money, just like they are doing now twisting his words and will continue do so while it makes them money.
The more you talk about it, the more the media is going to twist and the more they are going to make, for them it is a payday for Harry and Megan it is a pain in the ass.
They continue to do interviews what gives the media the exact thing they want to twist it to earn their money, honestly if they want it all to die down they need to stop with the interviews, books and documentaries, if they want their side of the story in the public then they can do that, but the media is going to do what the usual shit media do all the time and go to earn clicks by twisting and cherry picking.
Literally they didn't talk the entire time they were in the UK and the media was making up shit about how she supports genocide because she bought avocados.
UK media is a disgrace, they even blame nurses for the NHS failures and the strikes instead of the government for not investing in it in over 13 years meaning junior nurses earn more in McDonald's than they do working for the NHS.
Seriously I don't really follow the whole royal family thing or the Harry and Megan stories, but every now and again I see stories or people talking about it and it just sounds like a shit show with so many contradictions, Harry and Megan will not win against the media because the media doesn't give a shit about their reputation, they simply care about the clicks when it comes to these stories and the more Harry and Megan say the more the media can cherry pick.
Like I said I don't follow the story so I don't have a opinion who is right or who is wrong, what is true or what is a lie etc...
They will cherry pick anyways, that's my point. When has being silent ever worked against a bully? They are casting a light on the institution, so of course the institution is going to DARVO. But that doesn't mean they should shut up. They are victims of years of abuse. The same abuse that ultimately caused the death of Harry's mom.
Is it shitting on the royal family if she is the one endangering the life of his family with leaks and Harry is exposing this in order to force the system to stop? All those leaks have created hate towards Meghan which in turn means danger. There was an interview from the MET Police a while ago where they clearly stated threats against her were substantial and real.
Depends if Harry is telling the truth or another example of "recollections may vary". A large chunk of Harry's shit flinging has been disproven or a case of facts twisted to suit his narrative. The latest is he doesn't believe the royal family are racist and he hasn't accused them of being racist, it was the british media that has made those claims. That's not how he came across in the Oprah interview.
I think he made a distinction in the Oprah interview: the royal family as in his blood family and the institution and its handlers. The way I understood the Oprah interview, he was saying the racist comments came from the institution handlers, not directly from his family members. Also I don't think Harry counts Camilla as family. A stepmother, the other woman in your mom's unhappy marriage that led to her death, can never become your family member.
That the royal family made him and his wife anger bait for the masses everytime the british media needed royal drama to fill their pages, even spread lies about them just to feed the drama gossip cycle and it eventually ended with death threats on his wife and her being suicidal during her pregnancy because of the hate and danger she was living in. Probably also led to a miscarriage after their first son was born.
His family was put in mortal danger because he was the least important member of the family and they used him and his wife as anger bait for the masses, which generated real threats towards her life (and as a byproduct their kids). What silver platter does this come on?