We likely will end up doing that... just hoping for some advice prior to going down the lawyer route or to hear from anybody who has experienced a similar situation.
Some cities in Ca are designated tree friendly so if you want to cut one down you need a permit (and to replace it if I remember right) so verify that as well....
I would seriously consider which would be more expensive: the damages or the permit. A complicated, expensive legal dispute may not be guaranteed damages - but further property damage from the tree roots sure will be. Could you get the city to take a look at the issue? They might be able to help you, especially if the neighbors raise a stink over losing the tree.
As others have said, obviously it's time for you to get a lawyer. You need to consider your options with the tree and the dispute with the neighbor, plus any recourse you might have against the seller or inspectors.
It's also crucial to figure out what exactly happened with the prior owner who got lawyers involved. If they actually litigated this issue or signed any agreements over it with the neighbor, that would likely affect your rights.
You kind of summed it up by saying we “are bearing all of the burden”, and that’s really our biggest question... when do they start to share the burden (financially)? Or do they just get to have their cake and eat it too? And not in a bad way, it just seems that “our” tree is causing issues, so when do the bills become “ours” as well?
We don’t want to get rid of the tree in a perfect world, but we do want to limit further damage to the property. And we’d like to improve use that side of the property which is pretty impossible with the tree as it stands.
As far as redoing the driveway every couple years, moving the garage (which has gas lines and electricity to move as well), or dealing with the sewer line/storm drain when it does eventually get cracked in half.... I doubt anybody will be running out waiving their checkbook to help out with the cost. And that seems ridiculously unfair (I know life’s not fair, lol, but that can’t be legal either).
Sounds like we need to continue the conversation with the neighbors and likely get a lawyer to consult us, as well, just to know what our rights are (if any, lol).