It depends on if the state is a right to work state or not. If so, they could fire you without a reason anyway. But while a handbook from a employer does outline rules and job duties; if there is statements of rules even agreed to, that goes against the law, then that rule or agreement can not be enforced with out legal ramifications. You stated you was going to ask your father who was a lawyer, so I am curious on what he told you. Besides that, discussing anything thing to other employees, wages or other workers; are not feasible reasons to fire with cause. So while cause termination reduces chances of backlash from a ex employee, a fire at will protects employers in a blanket coverage. They could state even a high wage worker was fired cause they wanted to replace him with someone they knew, and it be ok. As long as there is no written contract agreement; and it does not have statements that break the laws, even ones just granting protections on bad faith of the agreement; there is nothing can be done if thy decided to fire over talking about pay legally. Best two things to check on, is one; with CO being a hire at will state, unless you signed an actual contract of employment that says other wise, they could fire you for any reason or no reason. And if you did signed a contract; check in it, and see what it says; then show your father and see if it is legally binding despite the agreement... Now before anyone says, hey its a contract, its binding regardless.... Here in KY, my parents had a land contract with a buyer of an farm they owned. The contract stated it was a rent to own situation. They paid monthly till X amount was paid then they owned it. The buyer also had to keep housing insurance and the like, while parents agreed to make repairs as needed, cause it was a rent to own thing. At the end the buyer backed out, and ended up in court. The court stated they got money back; despite the signed agreement that they would forfeit any money paid; due to it being labeled as rent if they backed out. So despite the contract was co-wrote with a lawyer; the judge deemed the agreement was against protection laws or the like.
If you're in the US, that's an NLRA violation. Can't prohibit you from talking about wages specifically, and you can't sign that right away.
As of January 2021, the Colorado Equal Pay for Equal Work went into effect. Among other things, the act prohibits employers from disciplining employees for discussing wages. I’m not sure if I’m allowed to share a link, but if you Google the name of the act you can find it.