Me and my mom have had some issues recently and yes they were divorced prior to his death. I’m not exactly sure what it means it but where I sign it it agrees that “I claim my proceeds of the share” and also must fill out a W9 form. I would be signing them to the life insurance that he set up through his job and they will place the balance in a trust that I cannot access until I am 18.
Life insurance is demonstrably different than dad's estate. Life insurance pays to a named beneficiary outside the estate.
If dad had you 51% of the time, presumably he paid at least 50% the costs of your support. Even if he paid nothing to mom. Which leaves room to talk about where that at least 50% is going to come from now.
Beyond that this matter might be complicated. And, in fact, mom might be entitled to use the life insurance to replace what dad might have paid toward the costs of raising you. Are there other trusted adults in your life to discuss this with?
You need to work with your trusted adults. And if there is not something playing out that everyone agrees to, consider involving an attorney.
My step-mom,uncle and grandmother are currently all who I am primarily speaking to about this, I am assuming my mother is my legal guardian my dad had 51% custody but i’m assuming she has full legal custody now.
Depending on your relationship with your mother, I'd suggest explaining to her that (1) you want to talk to a lawyer/financial professional about the money; (2) you don't want the money until you're 18/21/25/whatever (maybe some small amount you could spend now); and (3) you want to use some of the money to pay for your father's funeral.
The mother may of course be his legal guardian “of the person” however that does not translate to being the guardian “of the property”. It can be someone else, usually court appointed. The OP cannot accept the money, it cannot be paid to a minor.
I'm sorry for your loss. And that you're now drawn into a situation bigger than you (no slight - this is bigger than adults too).
When a person dies, all of their stuff (bank accounts, houses, personal property, cars, etc.) all goes into their "estate." The will (or court) appoints an "executor" to determine who gets what from the estate. The executor must abide by the terms of the will. Usually creditors will get the first bite at the assets in the estate.
Life insurance does not go to the estate. This means, importantly: (1) people who aren't named (like his wife) can't challenge that you got the payout; (2) creditors cannot touch the money; and (3) you don't need to deal with the court stuff to get the money.
Ideally, the money should be directed into a trust until you reach age 18. This is a legal account that is separate and managed by a third party (preferably a professional). You won't be able to touch the money until you're old enough (and neither will anyone else).
Alternatively, you could just accept the money. However, since your mother is your legal guardian, it is likely that she would have access to the money and be able to use it.
Usually for a minor to collect life insurance proceeds a guardian has to be appointed by a court. It does not have to be your mother. It can be your Uncle, grandmother or an attorney. I would suggest you asked one of the adults you trust to set up an appointment with a lawyer to help navigate this and protect your interests. They can be paid from the insurance proceeds and it should not be a lot of money.
Your mom is correct, until you’re 18 under the law you are not considered “competent” to have probate funds distributed to you. There are several options to available.
Ok, I am being asked to sign a W9 form about tax info and a Beneficiary Statement. They were divorced and he was common-law married to someone else at the time of his death.
Your fathers burial expenses should be paid by his estate,. It very difficult to advise you without seeing the will. However, nothing can happen until the probate estate is filed. That can’t happen until a death certificate is issued.
Also we are waiting on the death certificate to officially do anything, I also need to express that it’s not a will(sorry for the mixup) but just his life insurance, I do not think he had a will written.
I know I am not responsible but I’d still like to help out, they know I am a minor but maybe they don’t know how it works with my bio mom? the people who manage the insurance sent out the forms directly to me and my step mothers email.