In the 19th Century, West Point classes were fairly small. There would be 40 or 50 graduates in any given year. Some years, such as 1859, had as few as around 20 graduates.
It would be a mistake to think that West Point officers were not sent out to the frontier. The Class of 1870 had 55 graduates and the vast majority spent their entire careers on the frontier. This would still mean that in any given year, there would only be about 30, or so, graduates available spread out 10 cavalry regiments or 25 Infantry regiments that did the bulk of the frontier work.
After graduation, the new officers would be assigned to their first duty stations and respective branches. West Point was primarily an engineering school, so the top cadets were generally assigned to the engineering corps. The, the next group would be assigned to artillery. The third group to cavalry. The last group to Infantry. (Oversimplification. Some officers high in their class would decline their initial possible engineering or staff position for a line position. Others would never leave academic life becoming instructors. So, think of these as broad groupings with a number of personalexceptions each graduating class).
On paper, an Infantry regiment would consist on 10 companies. Each company would be 97 men and 3 officers. Then, a small command staff. A Cavalry regiment would be 12 companies of 4 officers and 87 men plus a regimental command staff. The regiments were never at their full strenh, but even so, there were simply too many officer requirements for just West Point graduates to fill. There were certainly more than that movie would imply. It was not rare. There were graduates in every unit.
Cullum's Biographical Register of the Officers and Graduates of the United States Military Academy at West Point.
To add to this Norwich, Virginia Military Institute, and The Citadel were the colleges that produced many more line officers for Cavalry and Infantry. VMI in particular put many officers in the frontier as they were known for making a lot of cavalry officers.
There simply weren't very many fluff jobs in the army in the 19th century. There would be a few officers who might get an aid position with a general, but even a general in the middle of the Civil War would have only 3 or 4 junior officers as aids. Then, there was no real possibility of individual distinction in a staff position.
Artillery, engineers, and the various academic fields had career progression options, but - speculation here - the major difference before and after the Civil War is that the military reforms in the Civil War instituted a mandatory retirement and implemented a merit based system of promotion. Prior to the Civil War, the promotion system was seniority based and with no retirement or pension, upward mobility was non-existent. It was very slow after the war, but actual combat experience was necessary to keep up with others up during promotion consideration.