I disagree with the comments advising you to comply. You have rights. You are not obligated to let them in your house without a warrant. If they want to interview you, it might be prudent to have your attorney present, especially if they think are investigating a potential abuse case against you.
I’m not sure why you’re being downvoted here - every other post in this sub has people jumping up and down to tell the posters that they should never just agree to home searches and drug tests with the authorities just because they asked them too - and every response on this one says the exact opposite: just comply and get it over with.... So I’m confused, why does CPS have blanket authority to search your home and your urine just because some neighbor called it in? And why does this community seem to be okay with it, but not okay with any other type of warrant-less search.
I don’t know either why the most common answer on a legal forum would be to forgo your rights and comply. CPS is attempting to build a case and the advise is to roll over and give them any evidence that they would have never been able to obtain without a warrant? My advise would be to turn them away, don’t answer any questions, don’t engage with them in anyway other than to say “I will not answer any questions without my attorney present”, don’t provide a bodily fluid sample for them to test and use against you, and don’t let them in your house. The 4th and 5th amendments in this case would play a part.
Edit: also, be polite but firm. I’m not sure what part of Texas you’re in, but here is a website i found for an Attorney that echos essentially the same suggestions i offered. They might be available for a consultation if they are local to you. The bar association or the aclu might have suggestions as well.
I am most certainly not ok with it; if I were in charge, I'd change those rules because they structure CPS as an adversarial, blame-seeking body, instead of a supportive, family-restorative one.
But I'm not in charge, and CPS does have that power. So the advice to OP is to comply and cooperate so that he (and his child) don't face any further injustice. There are horror stories of CPS agents abusing their power, and the potential for this to land poorly on OP's kid, if he pushed back, is all too real.