Lawyer here who has handled a few dog bite cases back in the day. It might be worth a call to your homeowner's/renter's insurance to see if they will cover this, depending on the location of where this actually happened.
OP said the offending dog and owners are from out of state so that's probably not something their homeowners will cover. OP would have needed to be on their own property or the property of where the offending dog/owners were located.
I am not sure about that as their homeowners policy would cover stolen luggage and other items while out of town. Their insurance may not cover if the type of dog that did the offense was an exclusion on the policy and they did not disclose they had one of the listed breeds when asked (except if the dog was a service animal, which in that case the breed cannot be excluded from anything - flights, city ordinances, etc.).
Same here. It's something that's never crossed my mind. There have been many times I take my dog for a walk and I see at least one person who is out with their dog without a leash or we'll walk passed a place where someone doesn't realize their dog can get out of their fence. Some have run over and many want a buddy, but you have your territorial situations too. I have a rottweiler on the larger side so generally people without the leash freak out a bit and quickly come to fetch their dog and apologize. You run across the jerks too. I always tell them either way that in our area it is a law for their animal to be leashed anytime they are out like that. I think most places have a leash law.
Yes, your homeowners insurance can cover the cost if your dog bites another dog and the other animal needs to go to the vet, or the other owner decides to sue you. Check with your insurer to be sure they’ll cover vet bills and related costs if your dog injures another dog.
Homeowners insurance generally covers dog bites on and off-property. However, you should check your policy to make sure it doesn't specifically limit your coverage to dog bites that happen on your premises.
Great suggestion about animal control, they are going to want to get the other dog's shot records and have the dog quarantine for the 10 days (in IL it is mandatory for the dog to be seen by a vet at the beginning and end of the 10 days, the dog has to be kept in the house only to go out to potty on a leash and it is illegal to remove the dog from the state).
Generally homeowners insurance covers injury from a dog regardless of whether or not the dog is on the property so out of state shouldn't be a problem. The real questions are 1) do the owners have homeowners/renters insurance (renters often don't or don't have pet coverage) 2) are the owners willing to provide their insurance info, and 3) does the policy exclude the particular animal.