I think I’d need to hear a little more about this language evaluation. There are language evaluations that go up to the level of native fluency. If you took one of those, then yes this would appear to be illegal discrimination. If you just took a language evaluation that was merely with respect to being fluent enough for this job, then it’s not as clear cut. For instance, if you’d come in with the language evaluation of native fluency, maybe that you’d taken on your own accord and dime, would you be offered the native rates or the second language rates? I’m not sure it’s illegal discrimination for them to only offer tests that test up to a certain level of fluency, and then to only pay non-native speakers who have only demonstrated this certain level of fluency less than native speakers or those who have demonstrated a higher level of fluency.
The language evaluation is not an official scale like with the ABC language capacity ratings, it’s just to check and see if you can speak and write well enough to deal with our workload. That said, I am C1 certified in my language and don’t even sound American when I speak.
If they only have the resources/ability to evaluate your language fluency up to a certain level, I would say it’s fair for them to start you at a pay tailored to that level, even if you would be able to prove you have a higher level of fluency on a different test.
I think the real question here, then, is are there avenues for non-native speakers to reach up to negative speaker pay? By proving themselves over time, high sales or customer satisfaction figures, etc? Or are you forever stuck making less than the native speakers?
A native speaker would be C2 level of fluency (e.g., “mastery” level of fluency), just btw. C1 is generally equated to about a 9th or 10th grade vocabulary for a native speaker. So it definitely covers “everyday language” fluency, but someone with a C1 level of fluency would struggle at a university that provided instruction in their second language, for example. That’s not going to be true of most high school graduates who have that language as their first/native language. That distinction may or may not mean anything for your job specifically, depending on how technical the material/customers you deal with are.
Some will say that the company is discriminating based off native language and not national origin, which is the protected class. But federal law has been applied to discrimination based off items that are closely aligned to a protected class, so it could still be prohibited. The classic example of this is when banks were forbidden to refuse to issue mortgages to blacks, they tried to refuse mortgages on houses in black neighborhoods, saying they weren’t discriminating against the person, but the place. It was called red lining. It was ruled to be illegal, too. It was deemed too closely aligned to race.
The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) is responsible for enforcing federal laws that make it illegal to discriminate against a job applicant or an employee because of the person's race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy, transgender status, and sexual orientation), national origin, age (40 or older), disability or genetic information.
If the employer is testing people and confirming through objective testing that the language is better than that is acceptable; if the only criteria they are using is whether you are a person of color or your parents came off a boat or for the first few years before you started school you spoke the home version of a language and never necessarily learned it in an academic setting or used it extensively in a professional setting, that's very possibly if not probably de facto discrimination based on ethnicity and national origin.
Some may argue that "native-speaker" is not a protected class, but that is an absurd and racist argument that leads to de facto discrimination.
I would say that yes, this is unlawfully discriminatory. If the differential were based strictly on skill level, that would be acceptable, but if they are treating skill as a binary (you're either competent or not) and basing pay on your national origin or ethnicity that's a no-go.
As someone whose first language was Spanish and is thus a native speaker and who knows many other people who grew up speaking Spanish at home but then transitioned to English at school, I can absolutely assure you that being a native speaker of a language does not automatically make you a better speaker than someone who has put time and effort into learning it.
You can pay people more based on the time they were hired, how well they negotiated, skill sets, the fact that they're related to you, but when you were treating a class of employees differently based on a racial or ethnic or national origin characteristic of which being the native speaker of one language or another is unquestionably an element of, that is unlawfully discriminatory.
Edit: I know someone's going to come back and call me out on the immutable personal characteristics comment followed by the paying a family member more. The language I use could be a little bit more fine-tuned but the fact is that not being a member of someone's family is not a protected class. And this is a class based analysis.
My reading of opie's post is that they are basing this on native language. If that's not the case then I agree with you. But if it is being based on native language then it is discriminatory.
“Although we do not take charges over the phone, you can get the process started over the phone. You can call 1-800-669-4000 to discuss your situation. A representative will ask you for some basic information to determine if your situation is covered by the laws we enforce and explain how to file a charge.”.