Yeah. He was there. It’s a witness statement. This means that my lawyer, the insurance lawyer, court reporter, and I were all there, but this isn’t a court case. It’s more litigation because we’re trying to get insurance to pay out because the person that was at fault was their customer.
Honestly, as an attorney, I am fucking appalled by this. If this was an attorney at a larger firm, you should be speaking with his supervising attorney and if this was a solo, you should get a new lawyer. I mean, this is essentially malpractice, I'd be tempted to report your attorney to the bar.
I'm not sure you should be displeased that opposing counsel failed to accommodate you. Yes it's traumatic, yes it's aggravating, however it certainly and is likely in your favor and may impact his case poorly.
I may as an attorney jump for joy and sit on this issue for the appropriate time especially if it was recorded and pull it out when it causes the most damage.
And as /u/loveesq mentioned, their actions actually work in your favor. Rough that you had to sit through it though.
This. Your lawyer might as well have not been there if this is what happened. I assumed there was no lawyer present because your lawyer should have stepped up.
Yes I was giving my statement and the opposing lawyer was asking questions. Part of my hearing problems require me to hear a familiar voice talking to me. So basically the arrangement was that the opposing counsel would ask the question, the rep that was in the room with me would repeat it so I could see and read her lips, and then I could be able to confidently answer. If that makes sense. Apologies for not being clearer earlier.
Thank you so much. I’ll definitely pull them into a meeting and ask wtf was going on and why he didn’t say anything. The only excuse that I previously got is that it was a witness statement / litigation and that we weren’t in court just negotiations or something. This honestly didn’t make sense to me and I think regardless that my lawyer was there to protect me.