Well, "give" is too strong a word. Germany repeatedly renounced any demands of the lands east of the Oder river, I think first East Germany as part of the communist block, then in 1990 West Germany with the 4+2 treaty to make reunification possible.
It was Stalin that gave those lands though, in exchange of keeping most of what he had claimed and annexed from Poland with the Molotov Ribbentropp pact already.
Poland didn't really exist as an independent country at that point. All the "reparation" discussions/agreements were really between the soviet union and germany.
On top of that, the lands were given to poland much more than poland actively taking it. It was more or less stalin's way of justifying taking a lot of former eastern Poland away from Poland.
Well, at that time there wasn't really a discussion between Germany and the Soviet Union either. Thus I would point to the 4+2 agreement where this stuff was basically confirmed.
Also, as others mentioned here, Poland’s acquisition of formerly German lands was an action that Stalin took.
I agree wholeheartedly that Poland’s demands for further reparations are at best, counterproductive squabbling, and at worst, a cynical ploy for internal populist politics, but let’s not pretend that this land transfer balances out the weight of what Germany did to Poland in WW2.
The Germans pursued a policy of extermination and expulsion against the Poles, systemically murdering over 5 million and deporting over 2.5 million Poles by the war’s end. They took special care to erase Polish cultural identity, razing Polish cities (most devastating, Warsaw) and destroying intellectual centers and executing intellectuals.
On the topic of land, many of the Germans deported from Eastern Europe after the war were themselves formerly usurpers who’d settled ethnically cleansed territories.
Governments falling and getting replaced by pro Russian parties because people want their heating and jobs back, would not be a good outcome.
to be fair it is about disentangling your economy so it gets damaged less than the guy you want to hurt with those embargoes. So alot of the song and dance makes sense to not end in a self made economic crisis that will fuck with your ability to stay the course.