Where is your insurance in all of this? If you have the proper coverage you can always go through your own insurance, that’s what you pay them for. If you accept the $25k the insurance company will likely have you sign a waiver waiving your right to sue. Even if there’s no waiver, collecting a judgement against the other driver is another story. Suing the driver may or may not cost the insurance more, the thing is, the driver has policy limits and his insurance isn’t going to pay more than his limits.
What vehicle do you own that required $30K in repairs and wasn't just totaled out? What were the "additional" $15K in repairs that were done by the shop and did you sign off on everything?
Pretty much any auto insurance policy is going to have a limit on how much they will pay in various scenarios. When you buy insurance, you can choose between paying more for a higher limit, or paying less and risking paying out of pocket if you cause an accident that exceeds that limit. You're not likely to get more out of the insurer unless there's bad faith somewhere, and based on your story it doesn't sound like there is.
Your insurance company should pick up the slack here. Do they know that the accident cost exceeded the at-fault driver's policy limit? You might also want to submit the invoice from the auto shop if you think it's fraudulent, since your insurance company's lawyers are not going to be happy if they're obligated to pay for work they shouldn't have. Bottom line is that your insurer should be working with you to fix this, and for $5K plus the cost of 3 months in a rental car, it's worth the deductible plus possibility of increased rates to make a claim. Pro tip: get a bunch of quotes from other companies before your next renewal.
If you can't or won't go through your own insurance, you can do one of two things. You can sign the waiver and eat the difference; it's possible the auto shop will cut you a break if you tell them that insurance isn't paying for all of it. Otherwise you'll have to sue. The attorney you hire will be able to review the waiver and tell you whether it would forfeit your right to sue the other driver. Depending on the language it's possible that the other insurer is saying they will give you the $25K maximum that they legally owe, washing their hands of it, and leaving you to collect from their insured. Even if you win, collecting can be tricky, but if you choose this route your attorney would explain better than we could.