Dude, let it go. Do you really want to have to go through a public trial as you being the "victim" of having to have your neighbor get you out of a car because you were being a drunk asshole and he thought you may have been doing something to your ex.
If what you're concerned about is your relationship with this neighbor, do you think that attempting to have him arrested is going to improve the situation?
Okay, then go to a therapist and talk about your feelings. This is really a waste of time for everyone involved considering you caused this entire encounter by not leaving when she told you. You really think the police are going to spend a lot of time, effort, and resources getting to the bottom of what happened here?
You have the legal right to file a police report, of course; just... think all the way through and weigh the likely outcomes against what you actually want to achieve.
In most places in the USA, you don't press charges. You contact the police, tell them what happened, they either investigate or they don't, and beyond that, it's up to the DA as to whether they want to charge someone with a crime.
When the police ask, "Do you want to press charges?" that's usually just short for, "If we investigate this, would you be willing to cooperate with that investigation, and, if the DA decides to press criminal charges, would you be a willing participant in that process as well?".
Then OP refuses to get out of her car. Then she starts screaming and honking the horn. We get a lot of OP narratives starting out like that and it ends way worse that woman who felt trapped with a guy.
It usually never hurts to at least get it in a report, if for nothing else than to start or add to a paper trail in case they ever do something similar again.
There appear to be some gaps in your original narrative that might be important in making the decision about whether or not you want to involve law enforcement over this.
Oh, no, I get it -- it just went over my head the first read-through, but OP saying things like "...but nothing physical happened" certainly makes it seem somewhat obvious at this point.
I wasn’t trapping her at all she just wanted me to get out of the car and I was trying to have a conversation but I get that talking with a drunk person isn’t exactly the smart rational thing to do.
Okay well she admits to acting out of line there and shouldn’t have screamed was just frustrated at the fact that she didn’t want to try and have a conversation with someone who was drinking.