It may not automatically be discriminatory - they could have negotiated better or something similar. Have you spoken to your management about a raise?
I have and am still waiting to here. I was told I might get a little more. I feel like I am one of the longest tenured supervisors in the company and do MUCH more than most.
It is an unfortunate fact of life that in many cases the only way to get significant raises that go beyond minor cost of living adjustments it to change companies. I would have to go back and find the specific studies, but its been consistently shown that those who change companies regularly (not every year because then you become a flake, but after 3-5 years) are consistently compensated a much higher rate than their peers who remain with a single company. It is an issue that I regularly discuss with the managers at my company and remind them that the best way to retain good people is to ensure they are fairly compensated and feel valued.
This isn't to say that there isn't some discrimination going on as well, but it is certainly possible that you are falling victim to having been loyal and therefore are not being fairly compensated. As an aside, you note that you are a supervisor, which means that fairly or not, the company may be able to prohibit you from discussing wages with other supervisors. Depending on the specifics of your job, if you would not qualify to unionize, the National Labor Relations Act which protects the right of many employees to discuss wages would not apply to you. So if you think your company is being discriminatory or will retaliate I would caution you to document everything you do and tread lightly.
I don't want to minimize your concerns because it's very possible that they're valid, I just wanted to offer other possibilities.
You should see what happens with a raise, and if you still believe that you're underpaid because of your age/race, you can file a complaint with.
This is definitely understandable, and I completely get why you're frustrated. I'd definitely see if you can make headway with your management on a raise.
I was going to give it some time. I have been with the company over 20 years and like my job . I just feel like I am being screwed. I can’t help but to wonder if it is discriminatory as I am the only non white supervisor. Thank you for you suggestions.
Often, you have to change companies in order to move up. It's uncomfortable, but your future self will thank you.