Make sure to tell them it delayed you moving in after closing and any associated costs. Also let them know the hold up was the title company closing fee. Title companies in Florida are generally shady as the laws and enforcement thereof are not great and unlike a lot of places they do not require an attorney (whose license would be on the line).
Also, did you as the buyer or they as the seller pick this title company? Who picks and pays for title insurance in Florida is county specific. Also, some places like Sarasota, have laws that the final closing documents be ready 3 days before closing (for review by all parties). I doubt your title company was in compliance with local, state, and federal laws. If your real estate agent recommended this title company - do not recommend that agent to anyone! Title companies are notorious for offering kickbacks (some not directly monetary but services) to agents. Sound like the real estate broker for the seller probably ripped the title company a new one to fix the problem. Your agent's broker should have been at the title company the second things went sideways and they were not responding to phone calls or email - this is exactly the type of service your are paying for.
FYI: It is not uncommon to have multiple mistakes in a closing document. Did your real estate agent double check if tax proration was correct in your documents (whether in advance or arrears and annual versus biannual) ? This is also county specific. Do not rely on your lender to get the numbers correct either - they make mistakes (although less frequently and you actually get money back after closing if you catch them).
If you have an employee sponsored legal plan, you could run the closing docs by an attorney for a second look. Real estate attorneys are not that expensive - it is always worth higher one, especially as the buyer.
Interestingly, the title company sent me an email yesterday asking a question… it was about a completely different property and was supposed to be sent to the buyer’s agent for that property. Not sure how they mixed me up with her, but just shows how messy they are.
Glad to hear. My mom recently sold a property and had similar issues with her closing disclosure and the amount due her. It was eventually resolved but extremely annoying to deal with.