In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
“I remember Pat saying something to the effect of, Mark we need to do something more, they’re literally calling for the VP to be fucking hung, and Mark responded, you heard it Pat, he [Trump] thinks Mike deserves it, he doesn’t think they're doing anything wrong”.
Day 6 of the January 6th investigation was a doozy and revealed quite a bit about Meadows role (or lack there of in a way) in January 6th. Cassidy Hutchinson, a former aide to chief of staff Mark Meadows, testified about what she witnessed happen between members of Trump’s inner circle during the day of as well as the days leading up to January 6.
Hutchinson testified that she saw Pat Cipollone confront Mark meadows about chants of “hang Mike Pence”.
Hutchinson testified that her boss Mark Meadows was practically unresponsive to her pleas. On another occasion, she testified that Pat Cipollone tried to reach out to Mark Meadows during the January 6th riot, saying, “the rioters have gotten to the capitol Mark, we need to go down and see the president now”.
Hutchinson recalled that Pat said something to the effect of “Mark, something needs to be done, people are going die and the bloods going to be on your fucking hands, this is getting out of control, I'm going down there”.
According to Hutchinson's testimony, she tried to approach Mark Meadows about a conversation she had with Rudy Giuliani on January 2nd where he described plans for January 6th.
Hutchinson said that she told Meadows about Giuliani’s comments shortly after he made them. According to Hutchinson, Meadows “didn’t look up from his phone” during their conversation, but did tell her something to the effect of, “there’s a lot going on… but things might get real, real bad on January 6.”.
It was also revealed that Mark meadows asked the DOJ to investigate whether Italian military satellites were manipulating voting machines.
Mark Meadows also tried to help facilitate the installment of Jeffrey Clark, a Trump loyalist and lower level DOJ official, into the role of Attorney General to help Trump overturn election results. Hundreds of DOJ officials were going to resign if Trump installed Clark as AG.
I knew Mark Meadows was a piece of shit during the Michael Cohen hearing when he trotted out one of Trump's black employees and said that means that Trump isn't racist.
Testimony on day 7 revealed that a meeting took place in December 2020 at The White House where several allies of Trump and White House staffers got together to repeat baseless claims of election fraud and brainstorm about how to overturn the election results. Meadows appeared in this meeting.