No one can be forced to work. People can be forced to pay money, but not within a marriage, only outside of a marriage. If you sue him, you're suing yourself, effectively. If family courts heard cases about spouses not doing their fair share then the courts would be backlogged for a hundred years.
Maybe, maybe not, your attorney will advise. If he's not working due to being a bum (sorry) that's not the same as him earning up to his potential. What's his highest salary during the marriage?
Worst case, for a seven-year marriage in New York, you might have to pay something for at most two years. The longer you wait to get divorced, the more it could go up. But it may be nothing at all, or it might be minuscule.
Do you know what’s the % of the salary or how much do people pay if this will be the case? I don’t want to put myself in hot waters. At the same time I’m tired of having little to no support. We also have one child.
Married for 7 years. 1 Child. It should be ending now, but they might extend it, I’m not sure. he told me he wasn’t getting anything, to not pay bills.
Okay this is for entertainment purposes only, but let's say the court imputes his income at $50k. You're at $100k let's say. Here's how it works (on paper) in NY which does support really simply. Let's presume you're custodial.
multiple the total income of both spouses by 40% and subtract the support spouse's income from that number.
NY then has three formulas if it decides to award spousal support at all. Which isn't guaranteed and which your attorney will argue against. After child support is calculated:
Thank you This is actually pretty accurate and close to our numbers. This gives me hope that everything isn’t going to be that bad if it comes to worst and divorce.
Since courts take the lowest number, it doesn't look like you'd owe anything. Again, this is for entertainment purposes only. I wouldn't worry about it, but talk to an attorney.
How old is the kid and does he provide the child care? If you file for divorce will he be able to claim he’s the primary custodial parent? He could then be entitled to child support. My best advise is to see an attorney and know exactly what you are facing.
Child is 5 and we all stay home, I work from home and honestly I even do more for kid. My mother is also here helping with child. If he is not making anything he won’t be able to get custody of the child.