The church was long noted as the means by which those from less than exalted backgrounds could best make both a good living, and, potentially, their mark, both theologically and politically. A high proportion of successful prelates were the younger sons of prominent families – men who were unlikely to inherit significant amounts of land. Careers in the church offered such men livelihoods, and family connections the leverage to achieve higher office within the ecclesiastical community. These sorts of career decisions also applied to family members who faced more significant barriers to advancement than mere order of birth; thus at least two of the Canterbury archbishops of the medieval period – Ralph Nevill and John Stafford – were the illegitimate sons of noted families.
A second, and much smaller, group of eminent clerics made their way up the ecclesiastical ladder fro lower positions than that as a result of talent or patronage. Cathedral cities and monasteries typically provided opportunities for schooling for children from much more modest social backgrounds, and there was always demand from the royal government for educated men who could read and write. While those able to take advantage of such openings were rarely if ever from the very bottom rungs of society, sons of artisans and merchants could and did get themselves "talent-spotted" by superiors who valued their scholastic or administrative skills.
Edmund's career offers a good example of the means of ascent that could be employed by men from more humble backgrounds in this period. His family background was sufficiently affluent to allow him to attend the University of Paris, after which he moved to the university at Oxford and became well known as an expert on Aristotle and a teacher of grammar. All university teachers this period were also ordained priests, and further alternating periods spent as a scholar at Paris and Oxford were interrupted by time spent in possession of various church benefices and preaching the crusade. Eventually one of Edmund's old university pupils, Walter de Gray, became Archbishop of York, and was able to use his influence to advance the career of his old master. Edmund ultimately became compromise candidate for the archiepiscopal throne at Canterbury in 1233.
For John of Trockelowe, on the other hand, the archbishop was a far more benign influence, the "man by whom those tribulations \[of the church in England in this period\] could best be assuaged." Modern historians have viewed him increasingly favourably. In the overall judgement of his biographer, J. Robert Wright.
Very occasionally, a child from such a background might make it all the way. The best-known example from the medieval period was that of Thomas Becket, whose disagreements with Henry II, and eventual death within the precincts of Canterbury cathedral at the hands of a group of the king's knights, made him perhaps of the most famous of all English archbishops; he was the son of a successful London merchant. And Edmund of Abingdon, who became archbishop a few decades after Becket, was probably the son of a wool merchant.
Such a career was rare, but certainly far from unknown in the medieval period. While we often have only the barest details about the parentage and early careers of many eminent churchmen (and are not completely sure, for example, that Edmund's father really was a minor merchant), the archbishop who rose from the must humble background of all in the medieval period was almost certainly Walter Reynolds, who held the see at Canterbury from 1314-27. He is generally accepted to have been the son of a baker in Windsor, Berkshire, which meant that he began his church career in a town with very strong links to the English monarchy. This seems to have been critical; Walter became a clerk in the court of Edward I and there he met the king's son, the future Edward II. He quickly became a close friend of both the future monarch (who in 1309 described him as one who, "active in our service from our earliest youth, has came to enjoy our confidence ahead of others") and of Edward's lover, Piers Gaveston. As a result, he moved to take an administrative position as keeper of the young prince's wardrobe.
Reynolds's successful career, then, was entirely the result of royal favour and patronage. He was provided with the livings of a series of parishes (which he probably rarely if ever visited), which provided him with a good income, and in 1308 became Bishop of Winchester. He was named Chancellor of England in 1310, and Archbishop of Canterbury in 1314. He was sufficiently politically astute to switch sides with remarkable adroitness after Edward was overthrown by his wife and her lover, Sir Roger Mortimer, in 1327, preaching the text 'Vox populi vox Dei' (in which he justified the revolution and seems to have approved renunciation of homage to Edward II) only one day after the deposition of his old friend and patron.
J. H. Denton, ‘Canterbury archiepiscopal appointments: the case of Walter Reynolds’, Journal of Medieval History 1 (1975).
Could a commoner find their way into the feudal hierarchy? As in, if a noble came to favour a lowborn, would there be a chance they would be granted a hereditary title?
Yes, in certain circumstances, but – again – it was essentially unheard-of for someone to rise from the very bottom of the pile (serf) to the top. Successful, able and lucky serfs could and did buy their freedom, and might live comfortably as freemen in a style not dissimilar to the landed gentry, but their low birth precluded their elevation into the ranks of the nobility. Here it was really only women who could rise; what certainly did happen from time to time, particularly in the later middle ages, was the marriage of daughters of very wealthy merchants (typically those in the wool trade, the most profitable business that medieval England was engaged in) to nobles who in effect acquired the commoner's money in exchange for their social status. Once a woman had made that step, and acquired nobility by marriage, it was possible (and common) for her to offer opportunities to male family members. These men could become more powerful and influential by being gifted land or taking up administrative roles, but they could not themselves join their relative in becoming noble.
Yes, the nobility and gentry were distinctly different groups. The former held hereditary titles granted by the monarch. The gentry possessed, and passed on, both wealth and land, and might well be members of the knighthood, but they did not hold hereditary titles (baronetcies were inventions of the early 17th century – a device created by James I to make it easier to sell honours and raise cash).
Significant social advances made over the course of several generations certainly were possible in the late middle ages, and indeed were both more common and more permanent in their outcomes than were examples of spectacular gains made via a single good marriage. Again, I am not aware of any example in which an English family rose from the status of unfree serf into the nobility, but noteworthy examples of social mobility did occur nonetheless. In late medieval England, the most remarkable case was probably the rise of the Boleyn family, which of course culminated in the marriage of Anne Boleyn to Henry VIII in 1532/33.
The process that led eventually to the royal marriage had its slow origins two centuries earlier. Anne's great-great-great-great-grandfather, John Bullen, was a yeoman farmer in the insignificant village of Salle in Norfolk who survived the Black Death and had a son, Thomas (1350-1411). Thomas was sufficiently eminent and prosperous in his district to marry Alice Bracton, a minor Norfolk heiress whose father was a member of the knighthood. This union made Thomas the leading citizen of his village, provided sufficient money for him to pay for the construction of a substantial new parish church, and, it seems, also tempted him to upgrade the family's surname to the more elegant Boleyn.
It was Thomas and Alice's grandchildren who really began the family's ascent in the early 15th century. One, the Very Reverend Thomas Boleyn (c.1405-1472), enjoyed a significant career in the church, eventually becoming master of a Cambridge college; another, Geoffrey Boleyn (1406-63), moved to London, got himself apprenticed to a hatter, and then transferred to the oldest and most wealthy of the city's merchant guilds, the mercers (who were dealers in silks and other textiles). Geoffrey built up a significant fortune in business. He became Lord Mayor of London in 1457 (an office passed around the senior members of the city's major guilds), was knighted by Henry VI.
Geoffrey married twice, and his second wife, Anne Hoo, was another heiress – the daughter of Thomas, Baron Hoo and Hastings. The couple leveraged their joint fortunes highly efficiently, purchasing Hever Castle, in Kent, which became the family's main seat, and marrying their son William to Margaret Butler, who was the daughter of an important Irish noble, the Earl of Ormond. With the backing of his new noble relations, William was knighted by Richard III, became deputy Lord High Admiral of England, and was successively Sheriff of three important counties (Kent, Norfolk and Suffolk). His son, Sir Thomas Boleyn (c.1477-1539) married even better than his father had done, wedding Elizabeth Howard, the daughter of the fabulously wealthy Earl of Norfolk. Sir Thomas served the royal family as a diplomat, was elevated to the peerage in his own right as Viscount Rochford in 1525 – and was the father of Anne Boleyn, which of course eventually, and briefly, made him father-in-law to the King of England.