Welcome to the world of pre-modern Christian Latin, where conversio does not mean what you think it means.
In mainstream western culture today, a "religion" is a set of beliefs that someone assents to (or not). "Conversion" means switching from one set of beliefs to another. In Confessiones, yes, Augustine definitely describes how Ambrose's preaching and teaching opened his eyes to the non-worthlessness of Christianity, and eventually to its worth. We might even say he became a Christian "believer.".
Thank you! Always love your answers, you always bring up new points I hadn't considered that make me learn so much more than what I ask.
Mechthild states outright that she had been Christian, possibly even in some kind of organized religious community (we don't know much about her)--but she doesn't conceive of herself as really that way. Not in comparison to how she perceives her place while she's writing.
Or at least, that's how he wants to teach his readers, because Confessions is first and foremost a work of theology, not autobiography.
They're not singing about accepting a list of commandments or memorizing a catechism. You can't even really call it emotional, either, I don't think. The singer "knew" what love was and that it existed and longed for it &c &c &c, bult felt excluded. But now they know. More importantly, now they know they are included in this concept of "love.".
Anyways, this was a lot of words to largely just agree with and slightly clarify your framing of the point.
Through late antiquity into the Middle Ages, that's what "conversion" means. It's an intensification of faith, not the adoption of a new one. Scholars tend to like referring to the basic meaning of "turning towards," but I prefer the paradoxical "turning upwards and sinking down into.".
Otto of Freising actually has a nice comment along these lines in the Prologue to Book 6 of his Chronicle:
Medieval Christian mystics, in particular, like to speak of their conversions. Basically all of them grew up Christian. But they'll also talk of their childhoods as not Christian, in a sense, because they didn't have the same blending or alignment with God and God's will that they do when they're writing.
And that's why Augustine spends about a paragraph in Confessiones talking about Ambrose's preaching, and scatters little bits about his developing beliefs (as we would say today). But his conversion scene, where he hears the child's voice saying "Tolle lege, tolle lege" ("Take it up and read"), is an eloquent, effusive scene that spills on for pages.
I like using "I'm a Believer" here, because thinking of conversion that way helps avoid our modern-day sharp divides between belief and faith, mind and spirit, religion and spirituality. (Religio in premodern Christian Latin also does not mean what you think it means, hehe.) It's not a distinction between "knowing" and "feeling," but about being absorbed into and by a power overwhelmingly greater than you.
...Another word which, of course, would not mean the same thing to a premodern Christian (if the word had even existed) that it does to us today.
Wonderful, in depth answer, with one point: “I’m a Believer” was written by Jewish philosopher, scholar, and songwriter Neil Diamond, during his Brill building days.
Ancient and Medieval Christian faith is so mysterious to me: there's a lot of common language with modern Catholicism, but the meanings and practises can be so different...which makes it quite tricky to understand, but so much more fascinating.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, the Confessiones became exceptionally popular among medieval monks and nuns, who often either sought or actually experienced a similar "turning upwards/sinking down into." (...And there were plenty of them who didn't care, of course.).
Thus, in this text, he gives his more famous description of Africa and Asia being subject to false religio:
(By the way, if it's not too off-topic I join u/Anjin in asking for a follow-up on what 'Religio' really meant in premodern Christian Latin!).
The best English scholarship on 15C German Bibles right now is from Anthony Gow. There's a good bit more on lay Bible reading in other vernacular languages--Germanist scholars are still pretty mired in LutherSpin.
Somewhere around the 15th century, a concept more like our idea of religion starts to materialize in western sources--"der christliche glaube," the Christian faith/belief, shows up all over my German sources. There's a much bigger emphasis on teaching according to the Ten Commandments instead of the seven deadly sins; the first major catechism-ish texts begin to show up. To my knowledge, the shift is more often remarked-upon than actually studied. But it's pretty clearly related to the Church's increased emphasis on teaching lay people, (many) lay people's even bigger desire to learn, and the resulting democratization/popularization of ways to structure one's life--or at least part of it--according to Church guidance.
Religio overlapped with regula meaning "rule"--as in, a monastic Rule that members of a religious order like the Benedictines or Franciscans ideally used (or use) to structure their daily and annual lives, both physically and spiritually. , because of course he did. (And actually, the Rule of Augustine ends up becoming one of the most popular and important in the western Middle Ages, especially for women.).
Another topic that's new to me but seems so interesting. I've added the Rober Bast book you mention in the other comment to my reading list, at least to check out the first chapters if I find it in libraries.
But there is an important interrelationship with religio, in the way he discusses other "religions". The religio seems to refer to the terms of adherence, in a behavioural or legal sense, to the secta, as for example in his comments about Arabic literature in the Contra sectam sive haeresim Saracenorum:
I do wonder sometimes whether medievalists are a bit overeager on this point (as many others) to emphasise the alterity of their subject and end up being a little bit overly prescriptive (or suggest that because they don't share our conception of something that they don't have a conception of it). There is, without a doubt, a super important point here about not having our concept of religion (as you rightly note!), but they do build a notion of "religion" similar to ours on this basis, and I think we can find a lot of familiar ideas in their understanding of both religio and "religion".
In particular, religio often strikes me as a bad latin term to translate "religion". Rather, for example, when Peter the Venerable gives a brief overview of the religions of the world in his weird little geographical aside in the Contra Petrobrusianos, the term he uses is secta:
The way I generally heard it (and came nowhere near saying in this answer, hehe) is essentially: medieval Christians definitely understood the concepts of different sets of beliefs. And they're reciting the Creed at the baptisms of their children and godchildren. It's more the idea of an overall God-infused worldview of their own, where others are generally pagan, heretical, or have missed the messiah boat.
But anyways, the thing that always struck me on this point, vis-a-vis the increasing relevance of the laity and the role of regulae in belief systems, is the way that everyone in Europe (or maybe just Peter the Venerable...) lost their shit when they found out about the Talmud, with the idea being that obviously everyone was being mislead by their slavish adherence to the (para-)text.
Umm...for Germany, you're probably still looking to Robert Bast, Honor Your Fathers: Catechisms and the Emergence of a Patriarchal Ideology in Germany, 1400-1600. The introduction and first chapter talk about the seven deadly sins/Decalogue overlap and shift. I think Dan Hobbins goes into it in his book on Jean Gerson, too, but it would be a tangential concern there.
You can identify a lot of the underlying principles of conversion throughout later Christian history, from the Anabaptists on. (Adult baptism is usually a pretty good sign of the expectation of some kind of conversion, at least.) I tend to stay away from a comparison to 'born again', because that term's meaning depends VERY heavily on one's point of view and past experiences (and I am not speaking just of evangelical insiders/outsiders here).
But in its place, I can do you one better it's the idea underlying evangelical Christianity in the first place. Spread the Gospel to outsiders, but then turn the glare of the spotlight onto your own church community. John Wesley's account is probably the most well-known touchstone between medieval and modern:
"My heart strangely warmed" is maybe the second most famous line after "tolle lege" in...er...historical Christian theology...right. But if you continue on, Wesley sticks with a very Augustinian framework even beyond zippy one-liners:
He doesn't describe conversion as rapture, ecstasy, happiness, joy--just "peace and victory." Similarly, all the joy that Augustine describes after his tolle-lege conversion belongs to his mother. God turns Monica's mourning to joy; when Augustine tells her about the events, Monica rejoices. Augustine flows into the tolle-lege moment itself with a long description of his tumult and sorrow. But all he says of his own emotions after reading the Bible verse that he had "taken up and read" (so to speak) is:
> No further would I read; nor needed I: for instantly at the end of this sentence, by a light as it were of serenity infused into my heart, all the darkness of doubt vanished away.