You probably aren't getting many comments because this scenario reads like an actual law school exam.
My best guess based on what you have said is thar the estate of your grandmother is closed and you are at the intestate succession interpretation of your mothers. Caveat is that this scenario is complicated and I only know florida probate.
So at least a consultation with a local attorney is prudent. Also if you were legally adopted by your stepfather you should be treated the same as any siblings.
If upon death you have: a spouse and descendants from you, and decedents from someone other than that spouse.
If upon death you have: a spouse and descendants from you and that spouse only, and the spouse has no other descendants.
The adoption piece seems to only apply to children adopted by the decedent. In this case, the stepdad adopted him. Not sure what that will mean, but from what I can tell, the law points to biological birth.
I think they just mean that in this case, the decedent is not the one who did the adopting, the stepparent did. I think they gave two hypothetical situations, and then kept using a hypothetical “children” and “him” instead of saying “me”.
The examples only talked about adopted children of the descendent being treated equally to the natural children, so had my stepdad died without a will, I would have been treated as his own child.
When it comes to the surviving children, it only states that things change if one or more of the decedents children are not the biological child of the surviving spouse. It seems to be written that way to protect stepchildren. I did not chose to be adopted, my mom wanted my last name to match hers. She had 3 marriages, and her current husband and children only know about two. She had a bit of a scandalous early adulthood, but married a strict man who was already 40 and still lived in the home he was born in the 1940s. She left out the part where she was married to husband A, and got pregnant with another mans baby (me) and then married him late in her pregnancy. They split when I was 2. I lived with my grandma until she married current husband, number 3. She omitted the existence of 1.
If there was a prior ruling before your mother died, unless you are contesting that, it will carry even if the dollars hadn't been worked out.
Sorry for the confusion, I copied some of that information from the Montana legal pages, and pasted it. I reworded most of it to fit my POV, but I missed that part. Each scenario gives an example and I didn’t change the working of the example when I edited it.
I am just upset that I found this info myself, and no one has told me. I feel like they are being sneaky.
There isn’t much to be done with my uncle. He seems to have misplaced the original codicil and there’s no way to fix that. I’m also scared to push back, as he could redo his will. My grandma have him everything first, so he could always cut me out again if I piss him off.
Also, your uncle and you need to be on the same page so that you don't have a side argument going on while dealing with stepdad and his kids.
My uncle is more concerned that my mom owed him approx $125k to buy out his half of items she wanted, and now he’s worried that stepdad just wants the cash as he had no interest in grandmas car, jewelry or rental home. He just wants land and cash, but it seems the cash will be taken from him to satisfy the estate.
IF the 90 day survivorship clause happens to stretch to the date the estate settled, then I would think the judge would be able to plainly see that it completely changes what my grandmother wished. However, from what I can find, it seems the clause just applies to date of death, not of final judgement.
Yea, all of this has been a concern. I did not push harder because he essentially told me there was no codicil. I had talked to a couple attorneys back in 2016 and they said he most likely filed the will and withheld the codicil. However, I was also afraid to piss him off by meddling in the case. As it sits, her will only benefits me when he is not in the picture, or my mom is not in the picture. Without the codicil, I have nothing due to me at the moment. If I piss him off, he could inherit my half of the estate to anyone he wants. He only has myself and my brother and sister as relatives, but he and my mother did not get along. So he and I have a relationship, whereas the rest do not. He could leave it to his own wife, who could leave it to her family. I do have a copy of their will, and it is very clear that all of his personal assets and those of my grandmothers will all go to me when he passes. All of his wife’s will go to her youngest sister and nephew/niece. The only possibility of me being a benefactor of anything in grandmas will is the survivorship piece.
Forgot to add, the attorney that he deals with is my grandmothers attorney whom she filed the will with. I don’t know who her original attorney was, and I did call all around trying to find out. My grandpa’s brother was an attorney, and he recommended this place to them, but that’s about all I know. His practice closed years ago and he died in the early 2000s. After calling 20+ practices, none of them had been her original attorney.
I did call and get a copy of her original will. I am plainly stated as a backup beneficiary. My uncle was the executor, I was the next in line for that, and then his mother was third, but she was listed jointly with a cousin (grandma did not trust mom and new she would expect everything to be hers). My grandma explicitly did not want my mom in charge, or to be able to sell of the farm that’s been in the family for 150+ years. And now it’s looking that at least half will be gone for sure. She would he crushed at how things have went.
You are definitely correct, she did a poor job with this new will. She didn’t even finish the LLC portion, so the judge ruled in my moms favor and is splitting up the farm. Of course my mom will be getting the half with water rights, etc. I don’t think my grandma expected in a million years that I would get treated this way. I was literally her favorite, which is another reason she chose to spend her final time by moving to my neighborhood and leaving her home of over 30 years. She told me when she went on hospice to take certain times, including her car, because she wanted my oldest son to have it. She also said to do this before the “vultures” arrived. However, my mom had my brother drop her off here (600 miles from where she lives) and then “needed” to take grandmas car home. The car has never been seen again, even though grandma told me to take it and put it in my garage, along with various pieces of jewelry. Again, I was afraid of what they’d say had I don’t that, so I didn’t do it out of fear.
Catching my mom going through my grandmas drawers in her bedroom while she lied in the bed in a coma was one of the worst things I have ever seen.