Many assisted living providers will let debility slide if a resident has someone able to help them. For example, someone deeper in dementia might get a pass if they're there with a spouse who has it together enough to help them through the day. However, assisted independent living places often do not have the resources or personnel to replace that level of attention.
What did you all sign when she moved in, what are the requirements to live there and is she meeting all of those requirements?
It's reasonable to want the money back. Talk to the administrators and see if you can reach a compromise, for example if she stays out the month (assuming she safely can), or if they'd be willing to pro-rate part of the month back. And, as you alluded, _do_ help her apply for benefits: dementia is a cruel disease, and every resource you can help her with will help keep her comfortable as this progresses.
My grandmother passed away while she was covering for her husband. She knew he couldn't look after himself. We all did. Certainly, their home did, but they let it go, as long as she was there. When she was gone, they unfortunately could not take him back: his memory problems, impulsive behaviour, and inattention were simply not within their scope. He had to move, even though the day before he had been living there "just fine.".
Your mother doesn't, from the sounds of it, have that. She has you, but you're not there day to day. She is apparently deep enough into her twilight that someone needs to escort her to dinner, which is concerning. If they are saying they can't provide that level of care, then review your contract, but if she needs that level of care and it's out of their scope, she'll have to move. She's owed notice, like any tenant, and any other rights outlined in the residency agreement, but she's not owed much beyond that.
I'm sorry you're in this situation. Trust me when I say this is one of the hardest things a person can go through. I feel you, and I understand why you're making absolutely sure nothing is wrong. I will be blunt that while it is _possible_ you and your mother are getting dicked around, it's a lot more likely your mother's condition is worse than you've seen, and that she can't live as independently as you expected.