I’ve written about this story before, but it’s one of the most famous from the early days of hockey, and it fits the theme perfectly.
From 1893, when the Stanley Cup (the championship trophy of hockey) was introduced, until 1914 the Cup was a challenge trophy, in that any league champion in Canada had the right to issue a challenge to the holder of the Cup and play for it. While most winners were from major Canadian cities (Montreal, Ottawa, Winnipeg), some smaller towns played for it: Halifax and Sydney, Nova Scotia; Galt, Ontario; Queens University of Kingston, Ontario; Kenora, Ontario actually won it in 1907, and with a population of about 6,000 remain the smallest town to win a championship in North American sports (they also lost the Cup two months later, and are thus the shortest- reigning Cup holders). But in 1905 the strangest challenge occurred: from Dawson City, Yukon.
In the aftermath of the Klondike gold rush of the 1890s, a hockey team was set up in Dawson City, appropriately named the Nuggets. Financed by a millionaire Joseph Boyle, they decided to issue a challenge against the Cup holders, the Ottawa Senators (nicknamed the Silver Seven after a piece of silver they were awarded for their championship). Ottawa was one of the most dominant teams in hockey, with several future Hockey Hall of Fame players on their roster, including Frank McGee, who had lost vision in one of his eyes during a game years before.
In order to make the 6,400km (4,000 mile) trek between Dawson City and Ottawa, the Nuggets employed nearly every type of transport available. The first leg saw players either go via dogsled or bicycle to Whitehorse, though several had to walk the last stretch. They then took a train to Skagway, Alaska, and then a steamship to Vancouver. In Vancouver they took a train, going straight to Ottawa. The whole thing took nearly a month to do.
This was not the case. Ignoring the devastation wrought by disease and the loss of food and water sources, most tribes were too attached to their sacred lands to simply find somewhere else, and doing so would have meant war with their neighbours anyway. Tribes who had their lands stolen became refugees, either stuck in their land but unable to use its resources, their society collapsed and relying entirely on white people, or pushed into someone else's territory, and more likely killed then welcomed. Eventually, these refugees were pushed out of white settlements and onto reservations, supposedly to protect them from inevitable extinction, but in reality to control and assimilate them, a less violent means of genocide.
In essence saints' relics and bodies, in quite a real and tangible manner were equivalent to saints themselves, who could continue to live on and help people in the relevant communities. Their corpses, or constituent elements of them, are \pignora (\lit. security deposits) left upon death as guarantees of their continued interest and action in earthly communities. We therefore see pilgrimages undertaken- often across long journeys, with people across genders, social classes, regions quite willing to temporarily depart from their occupations, and seek from regional or local cult sites a direct connection with divine power. Miracles were performed in quite close physical proximity to saints' remains, acting as touchstones and conduits of divine power, giving these saints quite a public and popular presence. The actual sensory, spiritual experience of pilgrims themselves tended to be immense: in contemporary chronicles it seems almost cliche to report on bands of pilgrims journeying for days, if not weeks, sleeping a night beside the relics of saints themselves (or even sleeping near/in the tomb of the saint).
I'm reasonably sure the Teuchitlan culture traveled to some extent if only based on their artifact assemblage. One of the most important materials for their adornments was shell which could only be gotten from the coast. Seeing as how the Tequila Valleys are up in the highlands away from the coast, someone had to have made the trip. At least as far as a non-Teuchitlano settlement who traded with another group who may have traded with another group (etc) to get the shell. This is most evident in the Atlantic conch shell found buried with some remains in shaft and chamber tombs, though the majority of conch are of a Pacific variety. There's also some trade in jadeite (or other greenstone) which is not naturally occurring in Jalisco and also requires travel and trade. The tomb at Huitzilapa, for example, had jadeite fingerloops for an atlatl (another burial had fingerloops, but of shell). The most tantalizing evidence, I think, of movement are the presence of guachimontones (bullseye-shaped temples) found outside the Tequila Valleys. And I don't mean in the nearby Atamajac Valley (currently dominated by the growing megalopolis that is Guadalajara), but of guachimontones found near Comala, Colima to the south. Not only have several recently been found and one being excavated, but the ones in Colima are much larger than the ones in Jalisco. Typically, out of the 70+ guachimontones I'm aware of in the Tequila Valleys, the majority fall under a range of 30 to 60 meters in diameter. Our largest complete building, Circle 1 at the site of Los Guachimontones, is approximately 130 meters in diameter. The largest guachimonton near Comala Is 330 meters in diameter. I have no idea why it is larger, how it fits in with the regional differences of West Mexican cultures, or anything since excavations at one of the buildings is still, as far as I know, ongoing. Did the Teuchitlanos go to Colima for trade and showed them how to make their own ceremonial buildings? Or was Colima the progenitor of this architectural form and exported it north along with Pacific shell? It's certainly something I hope to attempt to answer sometime in the future.
When reading about medieval pilgrims, I'm quite amused by how my annoyances at tourists roaming around (my college/chapel) are mirrored in some ways by monks and clerics.
Not surprisingly, the Nuggets were a little exhausted by the whole ordeal, and only arrived two days prior to the start of the series. They petitioned for a delay to recover, but this was refused and so they went into the first match on January 13, 1905 fairly tired. Even so they held their own, only trailing 3-1 at halftime (hockey went to 3 periods in 1912; before that it was two 30 minute halves). They couldn’t hold on though, and lost 9-2. However comments by a Dawson City player after the game, where he said McGee “doesn’t look like too much” (he only scored one goal), seemed to invigorate the Senators, and McGee in particular. The second match, three days later, saw Ottawa win 23-2. McGee alone scored 14 goals, showing that he was indeed “much.” Newspaper reports after even said that were it not for the Nuggets’ goalie, the score would have been higher.
That series set several Stanley Cup records, ones that’ll never be broken: most goals in a game by a team (23) and most goals in a game, and series, by a player (McGee, 14 and 15). Dawson City however entered the record books, and by playing exhibition games on their return to the Yukon even earned a small profit on the endeavor. The only team to use a dogsled to reach a Stanley Cup game, the Dawson City Nuggets were one of a kind in hockey history.
Groups would also travel long distances for festivals. In Far North Queensland, the tropical rainforest provided enormous seasonal bounties of fruits and nuts that were shared out - the same is true for forested areas of the Great Dividing Range. In parts of Victoria, tribes set up large complicated fish traps that led to an almost settled lifestyle, and when fish were bountiful in certain seasons, all their distant neighbours were welcome to share.
Two contradictory misconceptions about Indigenous Australian life are that a) tribes were mostly localised people, with little contact or travel beyond the maybe 30-40 km of their territory, and b) they moved within their territory almost daily, always on the move, with no sense of permanence.
However, the monks responsible for the upkeep of these relics and the sites can come across as quite jaded: one quite comic incident that sticks with me is a local prior's threat to a Cistercian saint for him to cease the miracles attracting great crowds, lest his body be disinterred and cast into the nearby river. Another comment, also from the 12th century, from Abbot Suger of the abbey of Saint-Denis, remarked that crowds drawn to relics were so great that "no one among the countless thousands of people because of their very density could move a foot..." Relics were stolen from the church, the physical space trodden underfoot: travel hence brought about opportunities for popular sites of devotion, emotional and spiritual release, not always to the pleasure of those keeping these sites.
There are a number of other amusing anecdotes relating to the cult of saints, but (a) they are far more tangentially connected to the theme of travel (b) I'm a procrastinating undergraduate who really should get back to prepping for my first ever exams. But to tie this up: one nearby college continues to get plenty of visitors to their chapel, which has a shrine to a relatively famous saint dating to the 13th century, but everyone is there instead on a Harry Potter tour .
Binski, Paul, Medieval Death: Ritual and Representation (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1996).