Well, since you would be charging ten full days PTO for the individual (given the COVID situation at large), you could request the test results so you could grant a waiver (i.e., charge them less days); since it wouldn't be a requirement, save to have less days charged, it should pass the sniff test. (You're not demanding the test results for them to get the PTO, but r requesting to give them a "discount" in them due to the specific situation.).
NAL: HR in OH. We have either taken verbal confirmation of a positive test result via our local health department or had the employee produce a return to work slip from their doctor. So far we have had 2 employees fake a positive.
If so, you might want to let the employee take the paid leave and reimburse your business via the tax credit.
While it's not relevant to the facts of the situation, I'm pretty sure the employee does/did not have COVID. My goal for all of our policies has been to start with something that doesn't make the honest ones jump through hoops. This is the first time in twelve years I'm having to figure out an alternate policy so that we only get burned once. Having a simple method like this for verification would be wonderful.
Wow, that info is incredibly helpful! It would really take care of all of my concerns, but I'm assuming the health department requires some authorization from the employee to release the result?
I don't know anything about Ohio specifically, but I do know some states can allow businesses to require doctor notes for sick days (usually of the non-PTO variety), or various medical documentation for things like that- so you shouldn't be breaking any laws, IMnsHO, especially since, again, its not a requirement for the 10 days off, but for not charging as much PTO against their account.
In situations likes yours I would just call the health department and tell them who I am and let them know that a employee was reporting a covid positive case or reporting that they had been contact traced. They would ask for the employees name and would give me a yes or no. Sometimes they didn’t have the information yet, but would get back to me by either emailing me a letter or sending a letter to my employee. This was enough evidence for me. For the two employees who were faking it I couldn’t get confirmation and I pushed harder - like asking for the doctors note or letting them know they needed to contact the health department immediately. One admitted to the lie and never returned from their quarantine while the other refused to take my call and never returned to work.
I’m not a legal expert, so I can’t speak to the legality of the information that has been shared with me. My assumption is because of the situation it’s okay.