Many years is mortgage servicing including default servicing. Your question has to do with default servicing actions, i am not a lawyer and this is my opinion and not a gurantee of your investor or servicers policies.
A short term forbearance is just a waiver of the Late Charges and Negative Reporting associated with missing your payments. They also will not refer the loan to foreclosure during a forbearance.
However once the forbearance ends the delinquent amount is due and normal default servicing actions may resume.
Now if property is determined vacant, and the servicer was unsuccessful in reaching their borrower they will then secure the property to reduce the risk of avoidable damage. This is allowed under most standard mortgages.
Be prepared to provide a Universal Borrower Assistance Form, Dodd-Frank Certification, 4506-T, signed hardship letter. 2019 and 2020 tax returns, 2 most recent months of banking statements including explanations of deposits greater than $1k. If those statements include any transfers from other accounts 2 months statements/explanations for those accounts as well.
2) Find your aunts original forbearance notices, send those in with a request for current loss mitigation options available.
Tomorrow all of the remaining covid payments will be drafted from her checking account and the loan will be current. Its memorial day and the updated mortgage payments may not be reflected until June 1.
The court has granted full legal guradianship over my Aunts person and assets as she was unable to do it herself.
Would a mortgage company allow locks to be changed while receiving payments for a home they cannot officially start forclosure process?
The payments were late but multiple payments were being made each month....At some point in the very near future the loan would have been current and if the locks were changed pre maturely wouldn't the Mortgage company and their service providers be sued?
There would be no court order for the lock change as this is not a forclosure or eviction, no sheriff on premises to legitmatize the lock change. Just the assupmtion forclousure is going to happen while receiving documented payments?!
Now my advice. 1) You need to ensure youre authorized to discuss the account. Get a general Third Party Authorization letter, have your aunt complete it. Send it to the current servicer with any other legal authorization documentation you have.
Basically servicers can protect their investments from increased ricks when the property is delinquent, unoccupied, and no active loss mitigation program. Loan doesnt even have to be referred to foreclosure.
Thank You In South Carolina this property is not considered abandoned by law. This has stressed me out so much I have been "researching for 24 hours". There are no code violations, no broken windows, current with utlities and payments being made even if late....This is what I found (just to refrence).
You may be/have been on track to bring it current but the key here was it was delinquent, vacant, and no active loss mit. If you had been on a 3/6mo repayment plan the property pres would have stopped then.
Now one thing you do still need to do, make sure you're updated as an authorized third party and make sure the payments have been accepted. Another issue servicers have is they dont take partial reinstatements on delinquent loans with no contact. For example a loan 90 days delinquent may require payments be at least 30% of the total delinquency but a loan 15 months delinquent may require 90% (excluding a Loss Mitigation program).
The mortgage company must have a court order to enter home and present actual and verifiable evidence based on SC law that the home is abandoned. On June 1st I will be there and I will contact the police and press charges if any attempts to enter the home.
You're making more stress than you need to. It was reported vacant. So they have scheduled securing it.
If you're there in the house when an inspector shows up. They won't complete any internal property pres. Pressing charges won't go anywhere they have permission from the lender who can secure it based on the terms of the mortgage.
True, yet South Carolina has property abandoment laws exclusively for mortgaged property. If the mortgage company COULD HAVE secured the property on their first visit, they WOULD HAVE! At no point thus far would the Mortgage company have received a court order to enter the home because the property is in compliance with all state guidelines.
I want to belive the note was a contractor that jumped the gun but I will be there on June 1 with the printed SC code laws ready to call the police.