Anything that causes any kind of harm ( emotional or physical ), lasting for any period of time ( short term, permanent or long term ), to any child is not acceptable and can easily be considered abuse.
EDIT: Someone kindly pointed out that my original comment seemed to imply that short term damage is not considered abuse. That is NOT true. Any harm to a child, whether physical or emotional is considered abuse and that person should seek help from CPS as soon as possible.
I have updated my comment to be as clear as possible, and u/m1kepro has kindly included some CPS contact information relevant to OP's location.
I am on the school/reporter side of things and not with CPS so I am not exactly sure how they determine things in their investigations.
Children's advocate attorney here - absolutely a hearing test proving hearing damage would be the perfect evidence. But OPs testimony is probably enough when it's flushed out by an investigator, especially if siblings are willing to talk to CPS about it and corroborate. I've personally been in on a criminal case in which the "traditional punishment" of kneeling on rice was found to be abuse by CPS, and used as evidence of an abusive parent in criminal court.
That is abuse because it's causing you harm. It could permanently damage your hearing. Also your "typical punishments" with the sticks, belts, etc. are also abuse. You need to get child protective services involved. Either you can call them yourself, or tell a social worker, counselor or a teacher that you trust at your school what is happening. They are mandated reporters and will call CPS for you.
Edit: I just reread that this was used years ago. Is your mom still doing these things? Either way it is abuse and should be reported, but just so you know if this is not currently happening, it may be difficult to form a case (it sucks.. I am a social worker and have had cases be unfounded because too much time had passed and there was no evidence).
In my state CPS hass different and lower standards than criminal court. They operate on "best interests of the child" standard. Meaning something a parent might not be convicted of child abuse for they can be substantiated an abuser by CPS. Is blowing a horn into his ear in his best interests? Easy No. That's going to trigger all kinds of interventions and possible removal of custody and loss of guardianship.
From my experience, it will depend on the case worker. Some are amazing and some are truly terrible. In my opinion, it should be taken into account as evidence, but if you get a bad case worker it is up to their discretion.