That ambulance driver saved you a lot of money. Ambulance rides aren't free. In fact, they're fairly expensive. Where I live they are anywhere from $600 to $1,000 and I live in a relatively low income area. If you can get yourself to a hospital without taking one, you should do it. And honestly, if you can avoid a hospital and go to urgent care, you can save yourself even more money.
If it's a medically necessary ride. Considering the EMT didn't think it was medically necessary, I think it might be a safe bet insurance wouldn't cover it.
On the other side of the argument, OP was admitted to an ER that treated her injury and they claim the injury affected their leg so they weren’t able to transport themself. These indicate the EMT’s may have been wrong.
You’re begging the question. OP is asking if the EMT’s misjudged the seriousness of their injuries. You’re saying, the EMT’s assessment was correct because the EMT’s assessment says so.
I work in health insurance and I've seen ambulance and hospital claims denied for...much less. If the EMTs reported that the situation wasn't serious, there's a good chance the health plan would refuse to cover the ambulance ride. If that judgment is scrutinized and found to be wrong, the liability isn't on the health plan, it's on the EMTs - so why would the health plan pay out for something when they don't have to?
I also want to point out, with as much gentleness that I can, that OP didn't say they were admitted to the ER. They said that they 1) sought medical care and 2) found alternate transport to the hospital. It is possible that OP received outpatient hospital care (which would prompt non-coverage of their ambulance ride in some health plans) or was directed to the urgent care instead.
Of course OP can choose to consult a lawyer and see if they have a case. I don't think it will go very far based on my experience in the healthcare field. But I know some attorneys will do free consultations to see if the client has a case. If OP isn't on the hook for costs and still wants to speak with someone, I hope they take that chance.
The ride may have been unnecessary. There are a lot of unknowns, which is why it’s dangerous to make blanket statements. The only real answer is to talk to a local attorney who can view the facts in context.
I can almost guarantee any attorney is going to tell OP it's a waste of time because she has no damages.