A house is very expensive in nowadays. I can't afford an own house as well but you can start with 60k per year when you have a masters degree in IT. It's enough to travel twice a year (summer/winter) and live a decent lifestyle.
Sadly it is true, the salary might look good initially and if you sleep in one room with other 5 people you can save a lot... but for family life, it's at the low end if you count in all the taxes, rent, and food.. I declined well paying job there not that long time ago. It would require me to move to Germany and live there, but when I calculate everything in the end, it was less then I'm making now + the hassle moving whole family...
Apart from that, it's quite possible many of the entry-level jobs are going to get replaced once OpenAI Codex hits. I honestly don't think starting in IT in a foreign country is a good idea right now.
Bad idea. There isn't a shortage of IT people. There's only a shortage of IT people willing to work for less than 2k/month. Combine that with the bad housing situation and non-eligibility for social support, you're going to have a rather bad time.
Additionally, to get a job in the german IT-space, you need either a completed degree or an official 3-year vocational training, with just job experience you're going to have a hard time. Germans love degrees.
Yeah, but with the cost of living in germany that's not going to work too well. In large cities like munich, you're not going to get an apartment for less than 1.2k/month. Add to that food, electricity (40ct/kwh!), heating... You're not going to have much left.
Well said. Once you factor remote work as well, it's quite clear that the end goal of this is to get employees that are highly dependent on their employer, rather than simply expanding the labour pool.
Germany is using a special system in regards to job-training. In many countries, you mostly learn on the job, in whatever way the employer sees fit.
In germany, there's of course the usual university degree, but then there's an additional path towards qualification: what's called a dual vocational training. For most jobs, it takes 3 years. Within those 3 years, you're on average 3 days a week working at your employer, and 2 days at school for this specific job. You do (usually, there are certain narrow exceptions) get paid during that time, but not much. 800-1000€/month is average.