Nope. Child support, visitation, etc. are all outside the scope of what can be included in a prenup.
I just don't think some of the court rulings I have seen are always "fair". The goal is not to deprive either of us of necessities and the fair distribution of extra resources.
Also, I disagree with the government dictating anything about my potential future breakup. I know for a fact that are many cases of injustice in family courts. I'd much rather have it set in stone and agreed upon beforehand. If I can't do that then I probably won't do a traditional marriage to begin with.
You really wouldn't know if I had known all the facts of some of the situations i've seen, would you?
It is my personal responsibility to provide for my children and I would. I don't need the government in order to do that. My gf and I both are in agreement about this.
You really don't. First, if there were proof of this, there would be a general outcry to fix it. Second, the majority of divorces, with and without kids, never see the inside of a courtroom because they are settled. You are drawing conclusions from the worst, most antagonistic cases -- those that do go to court -- and you are drawing that conclusion from some flawed source, be it personal knowledge or the YouTube channel of a divorced guy with an axe to grind. Your claim to expertise here is not particularly credible given that you didn't know how to spell "prenup.".
The law (not "the government") is going to be involved nonetheless. It will decide whether any agreement you entered into is fair and should be enforced. It will decide about child custody and support, if you can't reach an agreement on your own.
Again, the law (again, not "the government") is going to be involved whether you get a prenup or not. And if you and your girlfriend remain amicable and can agree, at the time, on what should happen after a breakup, you never need to see the inside of a courtroom.
I can say with a reasonable degree of certainty that you were not privy to every bit of evidence considered by the court in any case, and definitely not more than a very small number. Which is really not a large enough sample to draw general conclusions from.
Are you sensing a theme here? "If you can't reach an agreement on your own." If you can, the court will be happy -- thrilled, really -- to rubber-stamp whatever the two of you decide. All that's required is for your agreement at that time to be freely entered into and within the wide boundaries of what is legally acceptable.