I sincerely apologize, OP, but I need to lock your post now. It is garnering a lot of attention due to high karma, so you're getting a lot of driveby shitpost commentary, and we do not want to make it more difficult for you to find actual legal information by allowing off-topic comments (which we never allow anyway, but these are getting to be... a bit much.).
It sounds like you may have a viable false arrest lawsuit with actual damages. There may also be obstacles to successful recovery—You should consult with an attorney who brings such cases in South Carolina.
Google (“false arrest attorney” or “civil rights attorney” or “section 1983 attorney”) or the local Bar Association may help you find a local attorney with the right specialty.
It’s worth noting that Section 1983 (the federal law that permits lawsuits for violations of civil rights by state authorities, i.e. what your potential suit would be) contains a fee-shifting provision—if you win, the defendant pays your legal fees. This means that there are a good number of lawyers who do these cases, and you may be able to find one who works on contingency.
Thank you, I will need a lawyer to work on contingency at this point. I can barely pay my child support and have lost over $120k in savings since the incident occurred. I literally have nothing now.
NAL. All I can suggest to you sir is that you start by getting a free consultation with a lawyer. Your state bar Association may provide references. A traffic stop should be on a cruiser dash camera or body cameras.
And all of it was because they let a trainee run the show for a few minutes without appropriate supervision. And the supervising officer failed both to provide supervision and to apply due diligence in verifying the trainees work. This is how big lawsuits are born.
This isn’t my practice area so I don’t know off hand the statute of limitations, or whether it started ticking at the false arrest or the dismissal of charges.
The supervising officer that night distanced himself completely from the case. His name was nowhere on any of the paperwork after the arrest. It was all the trainee that had just passed police academy months prior.