In the years after 1990, it has come to seem inevitable that the collapse of the socialist dictatorship in East Germany would lead to reunification. The fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989 is often regarded as the beginning of a chain of events culminating in the October 1990 reunification, rather than as the end of a story of protest and state decay that began much earlier. Of course, it was both. Reunification was never inevitable; East German protesters had long lists of demands that never mentioned or even implicitly demanded reunification. And even today some former East German dissidents look back on 1990 as a missed opportunity for reform - "socialism with a human face" that might have been carried off most effectively in an independent East Germany. It is perhaps as a reaction to this misinterpretation of German history that one might believe East Germans to have been wholly uninterested in reunification. But that belief, too, is a misinterpretation. As is often the case, the truth lies somewhere in the wide middle.
No, that's not true, but there are understandable reasons why your grandmother might believe it. There are really two mistaken ideas in play here: that the East Germans did not want a reunification (they did), and that they only wanted the right to travel (they wanted much more than that). In fact, many people in East Germany wanted a reunification (Wiedervereinigung) in 1989-90. And the denial or hindrance of the right to travel was galling for many citizens of the GDR, to be sure, but it was also not the only reason for political protest, nor was it the only reason to favor reunification.
The Germans named the process by which the East German government fell and the two German states were unified die Wende ("the turning point"). The beginning of die Wende is often placed at the fall of the Berlin Wall. So the story of the end of the Cold War in Germany begins with East German politician on November 9, 1989, announcing the immediate implementation of new travel regulations that allowed East Germans to transit the Berlin Wall freely (this led to attempting to visit West Berlin). The story then proceeds apace for about a year: the Berlin Wall is rendered superfluous and dismantled; the Socialist Unity Party (SED) gives up its monopoly on political power in December; in the same month, the hated Stasi secret police dissolves; on March 18, 1990, the only free elections in GDR history lead to a coalition government of non-communist parties with super-majority support in the Volkskammer; in May 1990 the two countries effect an economic merger; on September 20, 1990, the Volkskammer votes to ratify the so-called ; and on October 3, 1990, the Wiedervereinigung is fully effected and the East German government ceased to exist.
There's nothing factually incorrect about this timeline, but by beginning with the fall of the Berlin Wall, we lose the context of what was happening in East German politics prior to November 9, 1989, which serves to obscure the motives of East German protesters and dissidents. In fact, the spring through the autumn of 1989 was a tumultuous time in the politics of the one-party state, both within and especially outside of the apparatus of the SED, as the Eastern Bloc governments disintegrated. Beginning in April, the Hungarian government began to disassemble the electrified fence on the border with Austria. Thousands of East Germans, already freely able to travel to Hungary, transited into the west. In July, Gorbachev publicly abandoned the Brezhnev Doctrine, the Soviet Union's post-1968 "Monroe Doctrine" equivalent, with which the USSR claimed the right to intervene in the politics of other Eastern European states. The West German embassy in Prague was crowded with thousands of East German asylum-seekers. Coalescing around pillars of nascent East German protest like the Evangelical Church and the environmental movement, in the late summer and early autumn a number of new political protest organizations (e.g., New Forum [Neues Forum], Democratic Uprising [Demokratischer Aufbruch], and the renewed and independent Social Democratic Party) were formed. Such organizations were not novel - the East German Initiative for Peace and Human Rights (Initiative für Frieden und Menschenrechte) had existed since early 1986, but this quick proliferation was a sign that matters had come to a boiling point by October.
The protesters were anything if quiet, so there's no shortage of evidence of what they believed and demanded at the time. The evidence shows that they were by no means a "reunification movement." The , signed in September of 1989 at the founding of the New Forum, is illustrative. The declaration articulated a vision of reform and humanitarian socialism: "We want leeway for economic initiative but no degeneration into a dog-eat-dog society," it announced. "We want free, self-confident people who nevertheless act community-conscious") were hostile to the SED government, but they were reformist, not reunificationist, and often decidedly anti-capitalist. Ingo Schulze, an East German dissident, (link in German; this is my own translation): "'Visa-free all the way to Shanghai' From the start, it was about the whole world And it was about authorization of the New Forum and new parties, about access to the media, about free elections and above all about democratizing our own world. The call 'we are the people!' was the decisive watchword. It was actually about taking our country into our own hands. In factories, schools, universities, theaters, and institutes, those who held the trust of the majority had begun to be elected to leadership positions. That was the real revolution. Who could stop us? With every new day, the the realization of a 'socialism with a human face' seemed ever more inevitable.".
The manner in which the Wiedervereinigung was carried off has been a subject of debate since 1989-90. Was it a triumph? A missed opportunity? A western coup? Something else? Above all, it was complicated and ultimately incomplete. With the passing of three decades, memories of the GDR have softened. Gone is the fear of the Stasi, the persistent insecurity, want, and anger. The phenomenon of Ostalgie (a portmanteau of "East" and "nostalgia"), in which former Ossis remember with fondness certain aspects of GDR life (from job security to Spreewald pickles), has become a major theme in the ongoing cultural Wiedervereinigung of the German peoples. Simultaneously, general enthusiasm in Germany and elsewhere for the abstract idea of German unity has papered over the political complexities of the reunification process. (Many people outside of Germany don't even remember that the reunification occurred almost a year after the fall of the Berlin Wall, much less that the process could have proceeded along much different lines, involving a full re-negotiation and reform of the West German Basic Law.) So false memories and misinterpretations abound. We're still dealing with the consequences of the incomplete Wende in concrete political terms, too. Eastern Germany still trails the west according to many social and economic indices, like and . In the West, the so-called "Solidarity Surcharge" (Solidaritätszuschlag), a tax intended to fund the ongoing economic rebuilding of the former GDR, has grown . And it's no accident that the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party has gained some of its most stunning electoral successes among disaffected voters in the former GDR. The only region in Germany where the AfD won any Bundestag constituency seats in the 2017 election was eastern Saxony, well-known during the Cold War as das Tal der Ahnungslosen ("The Valley of the Clueless") because it was one of the few parts of the GDR without access to western television broadcasts. All of this is a total aside to your question, but it must be recognized if we wish to understand not just why misconceptions about die Wende are wrong, but why they exist and proliferate in the first place.
If you want to think about Hungary-to-Austria and GDR-to-FRG as constituting "holes" in the Iron Curtain in 1989-90, I think it's fair to say that the GDR-to-FRG hole was larger for Germans. And that makes sense. It was obviously easier to travel directly to the Federal Republic or West Berlin from East Germany through any of a number of border crossing points than it was to travel from East Germany to Hungary, then to Austria, and then to the Federal Republic. I've seen estimates that about 60,000 East Germans left the Volksrepublik via Hungary in 1989 - a large number, to be sure, but only a tenth of the total number of .
"Beginning in April, the Hungarian government began to disassemble the electrified fence on the border with Austria. Thousands of East Germans, already freely able to travel to Hungary, transited into the west." which predates.
Maybe! The Nazi past was treated significantly differently in each country. But that goes a bit beyond my bailiwick, so I can't really confirm or deny.
Did this cause the "generic" East-->West flow to shift from Hungary->Austria back to DDR->BRD? Was the German (non-)border now a bigger "hole" in the Iron Curtain than Hungary->Austria? I'm still grappling with the rest of Eastern Europe here, but thought I'd type this in while still coherent...
Of course, very little of this stuff was worth watching if you weren't literally being forced to do so, and a lot of it simply went away when Deutscher Fernsehfunk folded over the course of 1990-91. Some of it is still around, though. Polizeiruf 110 still airs on ARD networks, and the East-German version of the children's TV character is still broadcast by Rundfunk Berlin-Brandenburg.