The only thing in the lease that talks about it is "DO NOT SHARE THIS INFORMATION with anyone besides those living in the house." It doesn't state anything about her having access and she told me numerous times that only my roommate and I would have access and she would never have access due to privacy. But now switched up on that all of a sudden. I wasn't sure if it was a fire hazard because i did not know if the paper inside of it could catch on fire from the battery, i wasn't assuming I was honestly just curious.
I didn't mean it's my ring camera. She owns it, but I am the one paying for the account and I am the one paying for the internet so she would technically be getting "free internet" from us in order for her to use it. It is on the exterior, but shows everyone coming in and out of the house. She also had a hunting camera pointed at our windows on our front porch that I have found recently that we were never told about. In the lease it only stated how those living there would have access and didn't mention anything about her having access. She's over 24/7 too and never informs me in advance of when she is coming and just comes over whenever she wants.
She owns the hardware, but I own the account and am paying for it and paying for the wifi. I asked for her consent to install my own and she said no.
The only thing in the lease about the ring doorbells says "DO NOT SHARE THIS INFORMATION with anyone besides those living in the house.".
It doesn't sound like you have any enforceable right to use her hardware. If she wants to limit it or even take it away, then you're stuck. If she takes the doorbell away or you no longer want to use it, cancel the account.
Your doorbell - even a doorbell with a camera in it - is not critical safety equipment the way a smoke alarm or a CO2 monitor is.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.