⚡️ The Italian Government, chaired by Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni, unanimously approved the resolution on the extension of arms deliveries to Ukraine until December 31, 2023 — Corriere Della Sera.
It's a bit weird, since we now know that the Wagner group is really a branch of the Russian military used whenever Kremlin wants to keep some distance. Can it be the branch of the military and a terrorist organization at the same time?
EU has already declared Russia as a state sponsoring terrorism, then you could consider Wagner a terrorist group. Has the Kremlin confirmed that Wagner is part of their military?
It is officialy not a branch of the russian military, only a privat company working for russia. By declaring them as a T-organisation. The USA can in theory bomb them into the ground in the name of antiterror.
⚡️ The Ukrainian military has much more chances to develop an offensive this winter than the Russian army. Lithuanian Defense Minister Arvidas Anusauskas said this in an interview with Delfi.
According to him, next year the Armed Forces of Ukraine will receive even more powerful weapons that NATO countries have. He also said that Lithuania plans to supply drones and other aid.
Germany support the return of Crimea by military means. This was announced by the head of the Munich Conference on Security Christoph Hoysgen in an interview with Deutsche Welle “Crimea is certainly part of Ukraine, and Ukraine has every right to win and return its territory.
Italy has placed a Sicily-based refinery run by Russian oil giant Lukoil under provisional state supervision to avoid its closure and guarantee energy supplies, a government source told AFP on Thursday.
GREY ZONE states that Nova Kakhovka temporary "administration" will start "evacuating" residents on Saturday 3 December.
Meanwhile, my source in Nova Kakhovka also says the military commandant administration will stop working on 3 December, and leave the city.
⚡️On the website of the German government, a version of today's conversation between Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Scholz and Putin appeared.
"The one-hour conversation was devoted to Russia's ongoing war of aggression against Ukraine and its consequences,".
Scholz also condemned Russian airstrikes on civilian infrastructure in Ukraine and emphasized Germany's determination to support Ukraine in ensuring its defense capability against Russian aggression.
⚡️ISW: Russian military movements in Zaporizhzhia Oblast suggest that it can't defend critical areas amidst increasing Ukrainian strikes.
Russia may be withdrawing troops from positions closer to the front line in Zaporizhzhia Oblast to reduce the impact of Ukrainian strikes.
The Insitute for the Study of War said in its latest report that the withdrawal from some of those critical positions may suggest that Russian forces cannot defend the entire frontline in Zaporizhzhia Oblast and are prioritizing where to concentrate forces.
⚡️Rusnya whines that the Armed Forces of Ukraine went on the attack in the Kreminna-Svatove district of Luhansk region.
UA soldiers are successful in the area of ​​Chervonopivka. Also,in the occupied Shakhtarsk of the Donetsk region,the Armed Forces of Ukraine struck an oil depot.
"We are in the process of decoupling from Russia when it comes to titanium. It will be a matter of months not years," Michael Schoellhorn, chief executive Airbus Defence & Space, says.
The Armed forces of Ukraine have already come close to Kreminna, Literally a few kilometers from the city!
"The weather is changing, this will help our military, who were waist-deep in mud before the temperature dropped. Now, heavy equipment will be able to move faster. We are already very close to Kreminna".
“We are almost there. Believe me. .. Now we have a proposal on the table which simply put is aiming to stop the folly of bombing the largest nuclear power plant in Europe,” IAEA chief Rafael Grossi told a conference in Rome.
For people wondering where exactly, this is wargonzo report for today. South of Kreminna in the forest Ukraine has moved closer, and Ukraine is now on the outskirts of a settlement on the p-66 highway, so we may see the highway physically cut soon.
A deal aimed at safeguarding Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant is close at hand, the head of the U.N. International Atomic Energy Agency said.
Europe’s largest power plant, which was seized by Russia shortly after its invasion of Ukraine, has since come under repeated shelling, drawing condemnation from the IAEA, which has called for a safety zone to be created around the site.
So basically "let us rape, murder, genocide and invade unhindered, these weapons to save Ukraine are making us lose so we have to target civilians".
⚡️The data about "more than 100,000 dead Ukrainian soldiers", announced by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, also apply to the wounded, explained Dana Spinant, Director of Political Communications of the European Commission.
⚡ The General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces posted a summary of the combat losses of the Russian troops as of December 2.
⚡️Ukraine has received $1.5 billion from the United States – this is the first part of a $4.5 billion grant, the allocation of which was recently announced by the United States, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine reported.
The money will be used to pay pensions, social assistance, in particular to displaced persons, payment of medical services, etc.