Unfortunately, at an arraignment you typically aren't allowed to present evidence in your defense. The state will read the charges against you and ask if you want to file a guilty or not guilty plea. If you plead not guilty the court may set a date for trial.
I suggest you find out who the prosecuting attorney is on this case before the arraignment. You should be able to call the city and figure out the name of the prosecutor. Schedule some time to meet with the prosecutor before the arraignment and show them the evidence from your vet that the kitten has received a rabies vaccine.
Get a copy of your cat’s “file” from your vet. It should show dates, age of the car when you first brought it in to the vet, etc. That should help you establish that it’s the same cat to the extent it’s a concern. Bottom line, it’s their job to show you acted improperly, and the inaccuracy of the shelter’s information beyond the cat’s microchip do a pretty good job in and of themself of establishing that the shelter’s records aren’t accurate. I would expect that your records would seal the deal: particularly inasmuch as they establish that you’re obviously a responsible owner who takes care of the identified cat: what’s the alternative conclusion, that you’ve got a second cat hidden somewhere that you couldn’t be bothered to take?
I’m sorry you have to go through this, but my guess is if you show up with the paperwork and explain the discrepancies in the shelter’s documentation, this will be resolved quite quickly.
I will add that I see now that you said you couldn’t avoid the “arraignment”. So notwithstanding my former comment, if you have been or are going to be “arraigned”, then without question I believe, consult an attorney.
I’m a civil attorney and so you’re really out of my bailiwick: but if it’s really a “criminal complaint”, then yes I would have to assume that it is.
Get a referral and a consult: if it’s bs you can clear up on your own, a good attorney will tell you that is a viable option. If it’s not, or may not be, you should know that for sure, from someone who can actually consider the specifics and tell you what they think, and then you’ll at least be making an informed decision in whatever manner you decide to handle it.
So with that said, I don’t know from your description whether what you describe is truly “criminal” or not; but to the extent it is or you believe it is, I would be inclined to encourage you to consider at least consulting one. (Your state’s bar should have a phone number or other service you can access who can identify attorneys who may be able to assist you.) I would expect that at least an initial consultation would be free, or low cost, and will give you a much better idea what you’re actually dealing with, and thus give you a much better ability to gauge for yourself what you need.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.