It is my sad duty to inform you that there is no evidence for Roman water slides. The city of Rome had the premodern world's most impressive water supply system, with eleven aqueducts carrying hundreds of millions of gallons every day. Most of this went to public fountains. Some was diverted into the homes of the rich. Torrents streamed into the great imperial baths. But nary a drop - alas! - was turned to the purpose of causing inclined planes to become wetter and/or wilder.
Let us imagine that some Roman with a unquenchable thirst for aquatic fun has decided to sneak into an aqueduct. This is risky business - a scandal arose when Nero reportedly wallowed in the headwaters of the Marcian Aqueduct, fouling Rome's drinking water (Tac., Ann. 14.22) - but our aspiring aquanaut is determined to get his fix. First, since the water channels were normally either underground or covered with heavy stone slabs, he has to find a maintenance door. After prying this open, he descends into the humid darkness, landing in a swift and shallow stream of water. He whips off his tunic, does a flying belly-flop - and breaks his nose on the concrete floor, having signally failed to slip and slide.
Sometimes, aqueducts were more substantially sloped. Although the Romans are famous for their great aqueduct bridges (like the Pont du Gard in southern France), they constructed to cross valleys too deep or broad to span with arches. These siphons funneled water under high pressure through one or more large pipes. A Roman enthusiast could conceivably have wriggled his way into one of these. But if he did, he would certainly be crushed or drowned long before his battered corpse was shot out the other end.
Romans who wanted the water slide experience were advised to travel to Egypt, where they could shoot the funnel-like rapids of the First Cataract in light boats. Closer to home, they could go to the beach at Baiae, or simply lounge in one of Rome's great imperial bath complexes. (The wastewater of the largest baths, which flowed to the sewers in foaming torrents, was sometimes used to power grain mills; but never, as far as I could discover, anything more entertaining). If all else failed, they could swim in the noxious Tiber or pilot a boat through the sewers.
The basic problem was gradient. Rome - like most Roman cities - was built on a plain, and took its water from the nearest convenient perennial springs. These were located up to 60 miles away from the city, but only a few hundred feet above it. The aqueducts thus had to slope very gently - sometimes as little as a foot each mile. Sliding under such conditions left much to be desired.
It seems like you had way too much fun writing this response. Don't you know that isn't allowed here!?
My good sir! I assure you, every reasonable effort was made to banish humor from my post. Any hilarity you may have experienced was a regrettable but unavoidable by-product of sound and sober analysis...
Is there any documented account of Nero's little dip having adverse effects on the drinking water, or did people just think it was yucky for him to do that? I would love to hear more about how that became a scandal, especially as I don't think a politician swimming in a reservoir would have the same effect today.
Mary Beard believed that overflowing water fountains in Pompeii would flush the streets of the town of its filth. I imagine there were at least a couple of drunken, hopefully accidental, slips and slides!
I don't know offhand about any aqueduct that had gradient issues. Vitruvius warns against insufficient slope, and it must have been a matter of rote knowledge among aqueduct builders that the gradient had to be maintained, lest some very powerful people become very unhappy.
"About the same date, Nero's passion for extravagance brought him some disrepute and danger: he had entered and swum in the sources of the stream which Quintus Marcius conveyed to Rome; and it was considered that by bathing there he had profaned the sacred waters and the holiness of the site.".
Oh, I'm sure. I once visited Pompeii in a rainstorm, and was nearly knocked off my feet by the water rushing down the gutters.
Interestingly, Tacitus focuses less on the unsanitary aspect of Nero's dip than on the fact that the springs at the aqueduct's source were considered sacred (and thus ineligible for swimming). This probably reflects Tacitus' assumption that Roman readers would find Nero's disregard of the religious taboo more shocking than his physical pollution of their drinking water.
When it came to aqueducts, however, it was relative elevation that mattered - and this the Romans could determine fairly accurately. Once an aqueduct's source had been located, surveyors (often detached from the nearest convenient legion) began by tracing a route to the city. Typically, this route followed the contours of the land; the object was to keep the aqueduct channel subterranean, often following natural ridge lines, as long as possible.
The Romans had no good way to measure absolute elevation (i.e. height above sea level). They occasionally attempted to measure the height of mountains; but since they did not have barometers (or any concept of atmospheric pressure), they had to rely on rather haphazard trigonometric methods.
To determine gradient (and thus elevation differences), Roman surveyors used two instruments: the chorobates and the dioptra. Vitruvius describes the chorobates in these terms:
A dioptra was used to measure the distance and height of features in the landscape. This was basically a primitive theodolite - to quote the description from the New Pauly article on the topic, a simple dioptra was "a ruler equipped with a builder's level and a metal tile with a viewing hole attached to one end (‘eye piece’). Another metal tile could be moved by the observer up and down a groove in the ruler. Focusing on the object to be measured through the viewing hole, the movable metal tile is pushed to the point where it obscures the observer's view of the object. After reading the measurement from the ruler and noting the measurement from the movable metal tile it was then possible to determine the angle or the apparent distance using Hipparchus' chord tables.” Since a dioptra was less unwieldy than a chorobates, this was likely the instrument used in the tunnels that made up most of an aqueduct's lenh.
“The chorobates is a rod about twenty feet in lenh, having two legs at its extremities of equal lenh and dimensions, and fastened to the ends of the rod at right angles with it; between the rod and the legs are cross pieces fastened with tenons, whereon vertical lines are correctly marked, through which correspondent plumb lines hang down from the rod. When the rod is set, these will coincide with the lines marked, and show that the instrument stands level. But if the wind obstructs the operation, and the lines are put in motion, so that one cannot judge by them, let a channel be cut on top of the rod five feet long, one inch wide, and half an inch high, and let water be poured into it; if the water touches each extremity of the channel equally, it is known to be level. When the chorobates is thus adjusted level, the declivity may be ascertained.” (8.5.1–2).
With these and similar instruments, Roman surveyors could, albeit slowly and painstakingly, determine the elevation of a planned aqueduct’s sources and the slope of its channel.
Unfortunately, we only have a few mentions (from the orator Aelius Aristides and the Philosopher Seneca), which tell us that Romans who ventured down to the First Cataract (which was near the southern boundary of the province of Egypt) sometimes paid to shoot the rapids in light boats steered by local fishermen. The experience - only attempted by a few daredevils - appears to have been the ancient equivalent of whitewater rafting.
I don't think you can count "watching cool stuff happening in water" as a water park - but as you say, the Romans were past masters of the form, staging various naval battles (and least once, an elaborate display of aquatic dressage). As for other water-based amusements - Augustus once set up a sort of gator farm in the Campus Martius, where Egyptian handlers flipped Nile crocodiles into an artificial pool. Nero, likewise, apparently managed to acquire a polar bear, and staged a display in which it dove for seals.
I should clarify that we don't know it was a polar bear; all we know is that it was a bear that dove for seals. Polar bears, of course, are all about diving. European brown bears (a staple of the Roman arena) are not. The Romans didn't have a special name for polar bears, and probably had no clear idea where Nero's huge diving bear came from (very few Romans ever made it as far north as the Baltic, let alone the arctic). If it really was a polar bear, it must have been captured somewhere in Scandinavia, and then brought south by merchants who knew about the Romans' love of exotic animals.
"About the same date, Nero's passion for extravagance brought him some disrepute and danger: he had entered and swum in the sources of the stream which Quintus Marcius conveyed to Rome; and it was considered that by bathing there he had profaned the sacred waters and the holiness of the site. The divine anger was confirmed by a grave illness which followed.".
Thank you. The best thing about this sub - and something that still amazes me, after more than a year of hanging around here - is the sheer number of people willing to take time from their day and share what they know. I suppose we all have personal reasons for doing so; but on some level, we're all tapping into the basic pleasure of being historians, and teachers.
"Titus suddenly filled [the arena] with water and brought in horses and bulls and some other domesticated animals that had been taught to behave in the liquid element just as on land." (66.25).