Arizona has great tenant activist groups if you google Arizona Tenant Rights it will provide you with some more information and resources available to you.
Under Arizona law, a landlord must return the tenant's security deposit, with an itemized statement of deductions, within 14 days after the tenant has moved out. The tenant has the right to be present at the final inspection.
This right here. If he hasn’t returned your deposit as required (or an itemized list of deductions), send him a certified demand letter and reference the relevant state law.
Assuming he doesn’t follow through, file in small claims court. You may be eligible for additional damages/payment as well - be sure to look this up!
We broke the lease, notified them at the very beginning of March that we would have to do so, then returned the keys to them in the middle of the month. We have continued to pay all rent payments, but we have been living somewhere else since cleaning & returning possession of the unit. So the landlord has basically sat on the property for now half of March and all of April, May, and now they're about to ask us to pay June as well. They allege they will have the property advertised for the first time 6/1/21, a full 2.5 months after possession was returned.
You are on the hook for rent through the end of the lease. However, the landlord is obligated to mitigate damages by attempting to re-let the apartment. Any amount he could have gotten by taking reasonable efforts to locate a new tenant are deductible from any amount you are ordered to pay by a court.
Whether a 2.5 month delay is reasonable will depend on Arizona law. Definitely contact the Tenant Rights group. You are probably going to need an attorney and will, likely, be able to give you a good reference.
Thank you for this advice! I actually just found out that the LL has just now listed the unit on their website (though no where else, and with year old photos, so why couldn't they have put those up earlier?) with an available date of 8/1/21. So it's looking like they're straight up not trying to mitigate damages at all actually now.
If the statute you state is, in fact, Arizona law then yes you are correct. However, even then your response is incomplete. OP can plead both defenses in the alternative, he does not have to choose one or the other.
Thanks for your perspective. I think this seems even more true now that I've double checked and they're trying to say the property won't be available until August (a full 4.5 months since return of possession).
I'm not sure I know the legalese well enough to say for certain. I gave him notice that I intended to terminate our tenancy, removed all our property, cleaned, vacated the premises, gave him the keys, and have inquired about his duty to mitigate damages. But technically we've continued to pay, so that we don't get sued. So I don't know if it counts as abandonment.
Thanks so much for the advice! I just discovered that they're actually stating the unit won't be available until 8/1/21, which would be the end of my 6-month lease and a full 4.5 months after returning possession. Suing is starting to look necessary .....
It’s my understanding that mitigate damages means he has an obligation to re-let the property to reduce the burden of my lease break on both of us. I’ve spoken now with two attorneys about this, collated a huge folder of documentation for court, and am merely debating whether to take this guy to small claims or justice court.