I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Certainly in Maryland the severance agreement could prevent you from saying that you were laid off if that’s what it says. There’s nothing wrong with that (aside from being perhaps rather difficult to implement in practice). I agree that’s probably not what it does say.
If your employer truly does interpret the agreement that way, you probably need to decide between honoring it that way and not signing. Of course you could be entitled to sign and apply the agreement as you understand it. Obviously there’s risk in that course that you’re wrong. And you’d be best equipped to take that course if you first reviewed the agreement with your own counsel to be sure.
A less risky approach would be to tell the HR representative you’re not willing to sign under those terms, and that specifically you object to not being able to say you were laid off. Obviously you take the risk they say “ok,” and walk away. But one guesses they want your signature on the agreement.
When I asked for clarification, an HR manager was called who said I could disclose in an interview and put the dates of my employment. It makes no sense to me and makes me nervous that I get a different answer based on who I ask in HR.
Taken to its logical conclusion, under the HR person's view of the agreement, OP could not tell a prospective new employer that she was laid off rather than terminated for cause. I can't see any court interpreting it this way.
IMO, they don't know what they're talking about, and that's not usually how documents like this are interpreted. They don't want you disclosing the terms of your severance agreement or disparaging them.
Fortunately, HR doesn't decide who should get sued. That's up to the company's lawyers, and no reasonable lawyer would file a case because you told a prospective employer you were laid off on an application.
I can't make you any promises about how the company is going to interpret it. Your safest course of action if you want the severance money is not to make any public social media posts that mention the company or your departure from it.
Could you please clarify how many paychecks I will be receiving under 2 payments (edit 2 above) as I’m confused about how the 45 day review period plays into this. They mention paychecks to Dec 23rd but what if I wait until the 44th day (Dec 30th) to sign the agreement?
If I don’t sign it until Dec 30th for example, I’m not bound to the promises in the agreement like cooperation and answering any questions by my supervisor during the 45 day review period, correct?
Also, can I propose amendments to this contract? The HR representative in the meeting where I was told the news and presented this contract said it wasn’t negotiable and I have to agree to it in its entirety. This seems illegal? I believe I have the right to propose amendments for consideration.
Thanks I agree! What about telling my colleagues I was laid off or putting a post on LinkedIn that I no longer work there and am looking for new opportunities?
I'm really not comfortable opining on other issues as I haven't seen the contract in its entirety, nor can we review entire contracts here.
It's not illegal, and there's no legal right to propose amendments to a contract presented to you. Imagine if everyone who took a plane flight wanted to negotiate the contract of carriage with the airline, or everyone who wanted to open a bank account wanted to negotiate the terms with the bank. "Take it or leave it" contracts are common and legal.
Thanks for the very good advice. Sorry to bombard you. I have some follow up questions that have come up as I reread the agreement: