In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Edit: And since we are comparing Colombia to Mexico and the Dominican Republic, they are pretty much ranked exactly the same as Colombia in the freedom index. It’s dumb to put Colombia with Venezuela and Cuba instead of with Mexico and Dominican Republic.
More importantly, Cubans, Venezuelans, and Columbians came from right wing governments that treated their indigenous inhabitants, poor, and black people like trash. They freaked out once one if their own was no longer in power.
They all vote differently, but white Latinos tend to be a lot more right wing than othet groups and their countries have the racist history's to show it.
Colombia is ranked 59th in democracy index, not great but above average for the world as a whole. They are not a dictatorship and arguably not even Authoritarian. Freedom index scores state about the same thing.
In 2018 the country as a whole went for the democrats by 8.6%, in 2022 the country as whole will probably go for republicans by 2-3%. That’s a 10-11 point shift in the National environment. Not saying the shift among Latinos isn’t important but it’s very misleading to compare the 2018 election results to the 2022 election results.
Is getting rid of Bernie Sanders the Squad, and any Democrat who talks about socialism or anything that sounds remotely like it.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Don't kid yourself. Those immigrants were okay with pre-Castro and pre-Chavez governments which were authoritarian. They just happen to be part of the group that benefitted.
Right, yeah if anything it helps to think of Latinos as the ultimate swing voters. They mostly align with democrats on values but they are hyper-sensitive to the economy since they mostly are trying to live the American dream and build a life for themselves. If the economy is good, then democrats will do well with Latinos.
Right, I’m not dismissing this as an issue. I’m just saying it’s hard to parse out too many lessons if we just compare 2018-2022 because of the huge shift in the national environment. We’d have to look at a longer time span across more than 2 elections.