The fact that you also took Unisom might be a problem, as the patient instructions specifically tell you not to combine it with other sleep drugs, for this exact reason. Since you admitted this to the police, make sure your lawyer also knows.
I told my lawyer this too, at least. I should've known better, but I wasn't falling asleep after an hour of waiting for Ambien to work so I went and got reckless. Sleep's been a persistent problem for me for a few months now, and the Ambien was working when I was taking it on the weekends for a month (my way of giving it a test run to see if it would have precisely this effect on me, and it didn't then) but that night in particular I just couldn't get to sleep. My though process was, better a single Unisom than doubling up on my prescribed dose, but obviously I should've just waited longer or been prepared to go the next day without sleep. As a pharmacy student, I've always known about Ambien's black box warning for this kind of behavior, but I'm still a little shocked as to how far I was able to get before finally being stopped. Devastating licensure and career impact possibilities aside, in a way I'm glad I only got a few feet from my garage instead of getting out onto the highway.
From a pharmacologic standpoint, however, I personally don't see how Unisom would've been the trigger for this. You're absolutely right, it has a label saying avoid use with other sedatives, but its ultimate consequence in this scenario is more related to my loss of coordination and balance instead of being the ultimate reason for sleepwalking to begin with. I don't know if that really changes anything, but I do feel like its probably important that I demonstrate that I've come to understand, precisely, of how/why taking Unisom with Ambien is clinically inadvisable.
Again, though, during my trial period on Ambien I never had anything like this happen. It's all still a little confusing to me what exactly prompted it this time, and a little disheartening.