Establishing something that is heavily glossed over by the question: The Tlingit aren't the only ones to have the things OP listed in the Northwest Coast.
They were not the only ones to use rod and slat armor, use pieces of steel from shipwrecks that washed up onto the beach as raw material for weapons, build forts, form intricate artwork, build canoes, and form a societal structure of slaves, aristocrats, and commoners.
Just to preface this, I mainly specialize in Southern Coast (Southern BC/Western WA) Warfare, but many of the sources that cover warfare along the Northwest Coast also extensively cover Northern Coast groups such as the Tlingit.
All of that is present from the Copper River in Alaska to the Columbia River separating Washinon and Oregon.
Rod and slat armor are still prevalent along with reinforced hide cuirasses (the most common form of armor along the Northwest Coast. Layered corselets largely of elk or moose hide, quite effective at repelling piercing weapons), Vancouver Island had cedar bark rope curiasses, et al. Copper and scavenged steel were also used pre-contact for manufacturing weapons like daggers and short swords, they crafted similar bows, constructed weapons of hard stone such as granite and jade, ground blades of slate or flintknapped chert, and carved large canoes of cedar. Wars were waged over wrongs, feuds, slaves, and goods. Variation is present of course along the coast (for example, rod and slat armor is less common in the Puget Sound), but not to such an extent that you would hands down expect a flatout victory in battle among say Nuu-chah-nulth and Haida with both sides aware and prepared for the other's presence.
The Haida and the Tsimshian have pretty much the same sort of armor and weapons that the Tlingit carried and produced. They lived in more or less the same style of longhouses, formed similar villages, produced formline artwork, totem poles, and crafted the same sort of canoes. They had similar societal structures and in fact were essential trading partners with the Tlingit. While the Tsimshianic and Haida languages are unrelated to Tlingit, their cultures are close enough for those just learning about Northwest Coast cultures to conflate them.
Groups south of the Haida/Tlingit/Tsimshian such as the Coast Salishan tribes, the Nuu-chah-nulth, and Kwakwa̱ka̱ʼwakw among others had generally similar societies (slave, commoner, noble) and technologies, and were no less capable at warfare.
It is also not as if the Tlingit/Tsimshian/Haida never came into conflict with tribes outside their immediate area either.
For example, the tribes of the Puget Sound would form an alliance if Northern Raiders such as the Tlingit came into the Sound in force. Northern Style canoes like the ones you have linked would then be surrounded by usually smaller yet more maneuverable canoes endemic to the area, filled with warriors that have the intention of sinking the marauding canoe with large sling stones and sizable rocks targeting the regions where the bow of the canoe connects according to accounts recorded by Marian Smith, Jay Miller, and Myron Ells. If this broke off or was chipped away enough, the impressively armored Northerners would then drown in the middle of the Sound, or be speared to death.
A similar response after contact also including Puget Sound Indians is the largely Coast Salish response to increased Lekwiltok raids at Maple Bay. Tribes that were formed of mostly autonomous villages had formed an alliance to a foe that repeatedly terrorized them and ended the threat once and for all on the waters of Maple Bay in Vancouver Island. So it is not as if the tribes of the Salish Sea were incapable of an organized response to serious threats from the North.
Thus, when taking into account that tribes along the Northwest Coast largely had similar arms, armor, forms of transportation, strongholds, tactics, formed alliances to aid them in war, and that these groups didn't live in isolation from each other for centuries...the Tlingit not forming a grand empire isn't very perplexing.
"Ozette: Excavating a Makah Whaling Village" goes into more detail about the origins of the steel blades found in Ozette.
You have me curious: we have (archaeological? folkloric?) evidence that indigenous New World peoples before 1500 found and salvaged shipwrecks from metal-working societies? I had no idea.
In addition, I suggest looking at . Jewitt was a ships armorer on the Boston who was captured by natives in 1803 and held for over two years at Nootka Sound. He got a view into the complex culture of the native people that very few, if any, got. His book (A Narrative of the Adventures and Sufferings of John R. Jewitt, only survivor of the crew of the ship Boston) is a great read and gives great insight on the culture of the Nuu-chah-nulth.
The is an ancestral Makah village on the coast of Washinon. The site was buried around 1700 by a massive mudslide that buried at least six large houses. Because the site was buried in mud, the buried material was in anaerobic conditions that preserve organics and other materials very well. Washinon State University excavated large portions of the houses and the material collected is just stunning. Spectacular organic artifacts like wooden oars, wooden sculptures, loom beams, rope, and many, many other materials were preserved. On the floor of one of the houses, was found two steel knife fragments and some bamboo. It is generally held that the items of European or Asian origin were collected by natives from shipwrecks. The North Pacific are thought to be responsible for the drift of Asian materials to the North Pacific Coast prior to contact and after it. Quimby (1985) notes that a complete Japanese junk was wrecked on the Washinon coast in 1832 that had an original crew of 14, three of which survived the wreck. A 14 ton ship would have had a lot of valuable metal in it. Others have postulated that some European materials from a trans-Pacific trade route from Manila to Acapulco likely drifted to the NW coast.
The rest is largely pre-contact/pre-gunpowder warfare on the Northwest Coast (before the 1790's would be a decent estimate).
According to "Ozette: Excavating a Makah Whaling Village", the steel that was found at the buried village appeared to be from scavenged from remains of Japanese shipwrecks floated up onto the coast. How frequent or rare this occurred to produce enough to cold forge into a workable blade isn't said.
I should clarify that steel/iron daggers or short swords don't seem to have been at all common pre-contact. Copper is the most common if metal is used and has a stronger presence among Northwest Coast cultures.
EDIT: I should also point out that the "metal armor" OP refers to in their title are likely reinforced with Chinese coins. Needless to say, this is a firmly post-contact innovation.
Yeah, I think my version of Jewitt is one where his narrative is annotated by Hilary Stewart. But I can't be sure since it, like yours, is unaccounted for.
Also, do not miss Ames and Maschner - Peoples of the Northwest Coast: Their Archaeology and Prehistory Paperback – July, 2000.
"Native North American Armor, Shields, and Fortifications" by David E. Jones has a wonderful section detailing the use of armor and fortifications in the area, "Peoples of Cascadia" by Heidi Bohan is a decent introduction to the region prior to contact, "Tradition & Change on the Northwest Coast" by Ruth Kirk.
"The Problem of Justice: Tradition and Law in the Coast Salish World" concerns the history of reconciling traditional Coast Salish concepts of law and justice among the Stó:lō (BC) and Upper Skagit (WA). Personally I was highly intrigued to read an account that mentions Coast Salish armor.
If I may, I would like to expand, and do so in a more proper fashion this time. So that people I spoke to earlier do not miss this, CC: u/a-sentient-slav , u/semiconductress , u/DoujinHunter.
Man I dropped the ball forgetting about John R. Jewitt. I think I used to have a copy with illustrations but with all the shifting around at my house I think I lost it.
This was kind of the key thing I was trying to emphasize originally. Wars, to most indigenous Americans, and among the Tlingit, were a matter of prestige, rivalry, and resources. You might fight for a hunting ground, or to capture slaves, or to revenge a wrong done against you and your community, but conquest and annexation was not high on the list generally. Conquest and annexation, ultimately, is what tends to form empires. One significant reason for fighting what is sometimes called 'low-intensity', 'endemic', or 'ritual' warfare, is a matter of population. These methods of warfare, and these goals, helps smaller communities preserve their population compared to wars of conquest or extermination, although existential wars did happen under the right circumstances.
Works by Hilary Stewart I can't recommend enough for those wishing to get an in-depth look at topics like fishing practices, how red cedar was used in manufacturing everything from diapers to longhouses, and artifacts of bone/stone/shell. All accompanied by accurate sketches of their appearances and uses.
I'm more familiar with Columbia River groups but I do have sources that more broadly cover Northern Oregon.
EDIT: While it's far from comprehensive on tribes in the Tillamook area, "The First Oregonians" by is a decent introduction.
So, my original post was a bit problematic, and I want to highlight this user's post for covering a lot of very solid ground in discussing how the Tlingit's neighbors were not out of the loop as OP may have thought, and pointing out a few things I would like to try to expand upon using what I can offer. I have rested, thought things through a bit more, and now I want to try to fix myself to be more along the lines of what I was trying to say, rather than what I did.