Can you escalate this to the person’s supervisor? Let them know what is going on and what the intake agent said. Also, call the police of the city where the child lives. Make a report to them. Document who you talked to and when. Document every time your dad says something. Keep reporting every time.
I told the intake agent I was going to file a complaint against him for unprofessional behavior and he said “go right ahead”. The boyfriend works at the police department in the town my brother lives in. The department looks like that of a double wide trailer- that’s how small this town is.
Thank you for your response, this is very difficult but I’m not stopping here. The agent told me she has no history with CPS. But I was told by my dad that she gave up parental rights willingly. One of the children has special needs, she is truly a monster.
That’s tough. Definitely still file a complaint. And document everything- dates, time, etc. There has to be someone or some agency in the county above the police department. Beyond the small town. Maybe try finding someone in the county who would be considered part of the police or supervises them. It’s awful thinking that these people could get away with this. Also, I recommend contacting CPS in the county and report her. If she has already had her children removed or been involved with CPS before, they will be VERY interested in what’s going on.
Intake specialists generally don't have sole authority on whether or not to investigate, meaning it's possible they simply never bothered to input the report - which would be a massive violation of policy. Moreover, the idea that an intake specialist would have this much of a conversation with you is highly irregular. Are you sure he's intake, not an investigator?
This is the part that confused me. Did your dad actually say these things? Cause if not then the CPS officer is commiting fraud. If he did it would probably make it difficult to move forward since your dad is the one who actually talked to the child.
Yes in a text message the mother sent me after my dad told her I called, she mentioned something about it. My father uses that narrative quite often to explain our strained relationship to other people- mostly his girlfriends, so that he doesn’t look a “bad father”. In this case he used that narrative to discredit me instead.