In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
You’re part of the problem unable to accept your side has issues and think that the other side is “evil” but nooo not our politicians all politicians are crooks look at WW2 propaganda and how the “enemy” is portrayed and maybe you can begin to understand media manipulation and propaganda.
Obviously that doesn’t apply to this situation but overall it’s true y’all are just blind idk how no one sees all the daily hypocrisy going on on both sides and act like their group is morally superior and does nothing wrong I hate both of y’all for ruining this country left and right ignorance and extremism is not limited to any one group of people two wrongs don’t make a right literally childhood lessons no one seems to understand.
Doesn’t matter if Biden did the same thing as Trump…..if it’s our understanding that taking classified information and keeping it as a civilian is a crime then Biden committed a crime it doesn’t have to equal Trumps crime.
In my limited experience, it's far more likely I lose a folder that I don't think has anything important in it than leaving my job with my vehicles full of their property.
That’s not true……I’m not sure where you got that idea……if that were true than Trump can just give back the documents years later and everything is fine? I’m sure even you don’t actually believe that…..if I steal the Mona Lisa but give it back years later I’m not absolved from the crime. The crime is the taking of the classified information, in your example people can take classified documents, make a copy, give back the originals and it’s not a crime……your defense shouldn’t make sense to anyone.
Biden took classified documents. Is that a crime or not? Can you give me another example where saying you didn’t intend to commit the crime is a valid defense…..”I didn’t intend to run the red light” I didn’t intend to lose control and run a family over”. Confessing to the crime 6 years later and only when caught isn’t a get out of jail free card….Biden can’t prove intent. He can say he didn’t intend to steal classified documents but nobody can prove that’s true. Does 6 years later sound prompt to you?
I Don’t think so. We can’t really speak for Biden’s intent, and if you get drunk and run someone over, it’s still a crime even if doing so was not your intent. I don’t believe the law would make an exception for intent, Think that will be Biden’s defense? “I didn’t intend to take classified information”?
If you cooperate with the government once caught committing a crime it doesn’t make you less of a criminal. 6 years….Biden only cooperated when caught.
Yeah the lawyers did the right thing so as to not become complicit in a crime of tampering with evidence…..the lawyers did the right thing….Biden took the documents and hid them away for the last 6 years…..The lawyers doing the right thing is not a get out of jail card for Biden however.
Well Biden must have taken them when he left the Whitehouse. If you feel taking classified information when you leave office is a crime, then Biden committed a crime, just because he forgot he took them, or just because nobody found out for 6 years wouldn’t make it less of a crime if we consider taking the documents as a crime.
Is taking classified documents a crime, yes or no, did Biden take classified documents yes or no. You’re trying to muddy the waters and create confusion where there doesn’t need to be any. Him cooperating and returning them 6 years later doesn’t mean he didn’t commit the crime in the first place.
In any case to know for sure we need a full investigation to determine if he knew he took them, if there are anymore in his possession, it might have been a mistake, Biden isn’t above the law, nobody should just take his word for it.
You think he accidentally took classified documents? Then there should be an investigation to figure out how to prevent people from accidentally taking classified documents. Biden’s been in politics for 40 years you would think he would know better. I agree, I don’t think much will come of it.
Correct, a lot of assumptions going on. We need a full investigation to get to the bottom of it and see if it was just a mistake or not. Unless we think Biden is above the law a full investigation should be conducted.
You think he accidentally took classified documents? Then there should be an investigation to figure out how to prevent people from accidentally taking classified documents. Biden’s been in politics for 40 years you would think he would know better. I agree, I don’t think much will come of it.
Well nothing to hide past you know 6 years of hiding them. Biden was never going to confess, Biden’s lawyers just didn’t want to get caught up in it. Had the lawyers not found them, Biden would still be hiding them.
How it ended isn’t the crime….The crime would be taking them in the first place…..if you go by this Timeline Trump has like 4 more years before he has to turn over the paperwork. Are you really defending Biden’s taking of classified information when he left office?
We need a full investigation to determine if it was a simple mistake or not, and how he handled them. Maybe it is just a mistake but unless Biden is above the law we shouldn’t just take his word for it.
They were taken from the Whitehouse and stuffed in a closet for 6 years. He didn’t mention them once, nobody would know about them if they weren’t found by his lawyers.
Does it matter, If Trump never existed do we feel it’s a crime to take classified government documents to keep as a civilian…..if the answer to that is yes it’s a crime, then Biden committed a crime.
I’d say this statement is somewhat true, although there are people saying if he committed the crime he should be held accountable, but there’s at least an equal amount that are either straight up deflecting wanting to ignore what Biden did and shift focus to Trump. Or just calling names and being disrespectful and dismissive of anyone talking about it.
The only people talking about Trump seems to be democrats. Almost every defense is….”but Trump did worse” in any case we need a full investigation into the incident.
We definitely need a full investigation to figure out what happened. Certainly nobody thinks Biden is above the law and naïve enough to take his word for it……Organize a full investigation and let’s find out what happened and what improvements we can make so high ranking officials stop taking classified documents when they leave.
This isn’t about Trump really, what I see is a lot of people using Trump as a defense for Biden, as a stand alone incident taking classified information when you leave office is either a crime or it isn’t. If it’s a crime then Biden committed a crime, independent of whether or not Trump committed a crime.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
So they were turned in 6 years after they were taken. I think it shows the lawyers intent not to get caught up in it, I’m not sure it shows Biden’s intent. I’m not sure you can prove Biden didn’t intend to keep them except they were discovered.
Do you think Biden taking classified documents with him when he left office as V.P. And keeping them for 6 years before his lawyers found them is a crime? We keep comparing him to Trump, but let’s not…..as a stand alone incident is taking classified documents a crime?
Well he had the documents in his private office when no longer V.P. An office I believe he used after he was no longer V.P. So yeah he must have taken them with him. He’s had them since 2017, meaning he had them as a civilian.