The "island hopping" strategy was designed to both cut the Japanese mainlands off from the resources it was extracting from other nations (like the Philippines), destroy its naval dominance, and also to create footholds for making said major aerial attacks (and eventual amphibious invasion) against the Japan home islands. They could not have dropped the atomic bombs — or conducted the 70 other major firebombing raids — against the Japanese mainland without a reliable, defensible locations from which to attack and supply their planes. This is what they "got" from taking those islands, places like the island of Tinian which they turned into a massive airfield that could launch +500 B-29s against the Japanese mainland (same with Okinawa, and several other places).
Now, they _could_ occasionally skip islands and just cut them off and let them wither. Which they did in some cases where taking the island was deemed more difficult than what they'd get from it (like the island of Truk). But generally speaking they took the islands as a way to get closer to Japan, and to destroy the Japanese ability to project naval and air power.
They had looked at other ways to strike Japan — e.g., from China — but they were much more difficult logistically (e.g., to get supplies into China you have to fly them from India, around the entire other side of the world). Logistics matter in war — how much firepower you can put in the field is what determines the outcome in the end.
They could bomb Japan without the islands, but it wasn't very effective. The Doolittle Raid, for example, involved bombers launched from aircraft carriers that bombed Tokyo and then continued on to China and Russia for landing (mostly unsuccessfully, but most crews survived). That's a very ineffective and inefficient way to try and attack a country, and was more for morale/psychological warfare than real strategic outcome.
Was there any ever intervention in China from allied forces? Specifically in terms of Japans invasion and war crimes. I don’t notice much accord from a Chinese perspective during this time. I’m curious if the allies knew about the atrocities Japan was committing against China and other close nations. And if so, was there allied support in pushing back this aggression?
There was a major Allied intervention in China. The Japanese crimes were world-famous. But note that many of those happened before Allied entry into World War II; e.g., the Nanjing Massacre was in 1937. They were a source of international condemnation, along with Japan's other expansionist activity, but as the US and others were not yet in a war with the Axis powers it did not add up to a lot more than that.
By the time the US was in the war, Japan had managed to make it very difficult to supply China without flying over "the hump" (the Himalayas), which added a LOT of logistical difficulties. The initial plans for bombing against Japan involved reinforcing China and using it as a launching point, but it proved too difficult to do this. (One famous example of this is an attempt to build up airplane fuel supplies in China, which involved flying planes with extra fuel over and then offloading the extra and flying back. But it was so inefficient that they frequently required taking on more fuel in China just to get back again.) This is one of the reasons that the island-hopping approach was preferred — it was in many ways more straightforward for the US to reach out over the Pacific from its own shores than to try and navigate half-way around the world the other direction, through a multitude of other nations and seas.
So the Allied assistance in China was never quite as much as they would have wanted it to be, and even late into the war Japan still occupied important parts of the country. The Soviet Union gave the Chinese some arms and advisors early on in the war, but became entirely preoccupied with the German front after 1941 (with the exception of the invasion of Manchuria in the final days of the war).
The above is just a glossing summary — as with all aspects of the war there are many more details, exceptions, etc.