Thank you so much for joining us for this AMA today, especially as I know that faculty at Cardiff and a number of other UK institutions are currently striking. Although not related to the book per se, I was hoping that you might be able to talk a little bit about the issues which are driving this, and what reforms the Union is hoping to see come from it? Thanks!
Thank you for this question. Today is the only non-strike day this week and next, and it’s really nice to be here talking about research during it. Academic staff, professional services, librarians, and postdocs are striking across the UK as part of the “four fights” dispute.
We are striking for better pay, for a more reasonable and transparent workload, to close the gender and ethnicity pay gap, and to end precarious employment in the UK. Personally, I am also striking as a migrant (like others, I seek to reclaim and politicize this term to push back against ideas of “good” and “bad” migrants) whose visas, indefinite leave to remain, and immigrant health surcharge were not covered by the universities I work and worked for. Universities like to claim that WeAreInternational when it suits them to talk about our research, but I and others (such as @IntlandBroke and Unis Resist Border Controls) want to see them pay to hire and retain migrants and their dependents.
Basically- Was there any time before the subaltern turn in history that major historians would have acknowledged the hardships inflicted upon Native Americans and Blacks by the exploitation of food sources by settler communities?
Here’s where things get trickier: Grotius established different rules for Christian and non-Christian warfare, and didn’t say which rules would be in force when a Christian nation fought a non-Christian nation (never mind that many of the Native Americans, particularly Oneidas, had converted to Christianity in the lead up to the Revolution). So the end result was that by the time of the Revolutionary War, it was less common and less acceptable to use hunger as a tactic against Christian nations, but there were fewer rules about waging war against Native Americans—whom many colonists did characterise as barbarians (it’s one of the grievances listed against King George III in the Declaration of Independence). Campaigns of crop and animal destruction—with the intention to cause hunger and draw the attention and resources of Native Americans’ British allies—was the acceptable norm.
I hope that one of the interventions I make in the book is to say that eighteenth-century hunger probably meant something different to people at the time than twentieth or twenty-first-century hunger, and that if we want to really contextualize it we need to try to understand what it meant to be well-fed and well-supplied, and to know how often people expected to go hungry. It was really common for Native American negotiators, for example, to describe themselves as hungry or starving when they weren’t, because it allowed diplomats to provide gifts without appearing too proud—so I would caution historians to be skeptical at the first mention of hunger in the scholarly record. The other interventions I hope I’m making are to point out just how effectively Native Americans prevented their own hunger—and often, the hunger of non-Natives—before the start of the nineteenth century. The Iroquois who fought alongside the British often carried their own provisions from home, because clan matrons controlled corn supplies and could withhold them if they didn’t approve of a particular expedition.
I’m interested in the historiography of this. How did the first US historians discuss hunger in this period?
Thanks for doing this AMA I just put the book on hold at my library and look forward to reading it. Did you work uncover how parents thought about their children's hunger or what children thought about the lack or presence of food in their lives? That is, could you shed light on the impact of these decisions by adults on children? Thanks.
Thank you for requesting my book from your library! I talk a little bit about children in the book. When I mention them, it’s because they’ve been used rhetorically by speakers to make a point about how bad the war had been. So, when the Seneca named Cornplanter sent a talk to George Washinon in 1791, in which he recalled the 1779 Sullivan Campaign against the Iroquois, he said to Washinon, “When your army entered the country of the Six nations, we called you the town-destroyer; and to this day when the name is heard, our women look behind them and turn pale, and our children cling close to the neck of their mothers.” The Sullivan campaign destroyed tens of thousands of bushels of corn produced by Iroquois (or Haudenosaunee) women, and sparked a refugee crisis during which many people died of hunger, disease, and exposure during the harsh winter that followed. In other instances, I write about people mentioning the deaths of children to emphasize the far-reaching consequences of drought and famine.
There has been work on the diets of enslaved people, the most controversial of which was probably Time on the Cross. More recently, Judith Carney’s work has shown how extensively slaveholders depended on enslaved knowledge to produce rice, and Andrew Warnes has argued that the invented tradition of barbecue also depended on enslaved knowledge and expertise. I want to be clear that knowledge is not the same as hunger prevention, and clear as well that I think people of African descent were definitely starved and exploited by slave masters. But ultimately I’m more interested in seeing how Native Americans and enslaved people prevented hunger or caused it among enemies, rather than the moments when they were exploited by settler communities.
Rum was important in sparking the war, and an important logistical concern during it. Before the war, as you likely know, American colonists grew more and more frustrated with the British metropole for enforcing the system of mercantilism that taxed imports on finished products that had been made using raw materials from the colonies. So when taxes were levied on sugar and its by-product, rum (or on tea, which required sugar), this helped to exacerbate tensions with England. During the conflict it was an important component of soldiers’ rations, and men expected to receive it and were annoyed when they didn’t. Rum (and alcohol more generally) was also crucial to diplomacy with Native Americans. U.S. and British officials were expected to provide rum (usually referred to in archival documents as a “walking staff” at key locations to Iroquois, Creeks, and Cherokees travelling to treaties and diplomatic negotiations). It was expected at opening feasts of these treaties, and throughout the private, closed-door negotiations that took place after the day’s official talks had concluded. Treaty negotiators had to walk a thin line between appearing generous in dispersing rum, and giving out so much that too many people got too drunk, and then claimed (rightly) that treaties had been signed under fishy circumstances. For more, you might enjoy Peter Mancall’s Deadly Medicine or Peter Thompson’s Rum Punch and Revolution.
So the history of hunger is a pretty new field! The key thing to remember is that people in the eighteenth century expected to experience hunger as a matter of course. Eighteenth century food riots (which people like Barbara Clark Smith, John Bohstedt, and EP Thompson have written about) occurred because people had conventional responses for protesting the regular occurrences of scarcity that resulted from crop failures, forestalling, and war. People rioted not just because they were hungry, but also because they saw rioting as a means to claim a political voice. There are several general surveys of hunger in modern history, which usually focus on the nineteenth century or later (think James Vernon or Nick Cullather), and Carla Cevasco is working on seventeenth- and early eighteenth-century hunger knowledges (.
In the book, one of the things I am trying to accomplish is to ask people to think about how food was used to ensure cooperation, as well as how people used food and its absence (hunger) to engage in violence. There are three key behaviors that help us to understand hunger in the eighteenth century, and food diplomacy is one of them (the two others are what I call “victual warfare” [pronounced “vittle,” like “eat ‘yer vittles”] and what I call “victual imperialism.”.
I define “food diplomacy” as the sharing of, or collective abstention from, grain, meat, or alcohol with the aim of creating or maintain alliances. I’m not the first to use this idea (you’ll see it described in the historiography as gastrodiplomacy, culinary diplomacy, political gastronomy [Michael LaCombe] and food aid). I’m changing the definition to include a shared experience of hunger because Native Americans attached so many meanings to the idea of starvation and because the absence of food thus informed food- sharing activities.
Food diplomacy was used as part of negotiations throughout the colonial period; it fell under the remit of what scholars have called “forest diplomacy.” These historians have shown that food is complicated because people incorporated it into both commodity- and gift-exchange economies. Most Europeans consistently viewed food diplomacy as working in a commodity-exchange economy, but most Native Americans switched back and forth between viewing this diplomacy as part of gift exchange and viewing it as part of commodity exchange.