1. There is no place in the United States where marijuana is legal. Regardless of what any particular state decides, marijuana is till illegal on a federal level throughout the entire country. Whether or not the matter get pursued is simply a matter of discretion from the federal law enforcement agencies, and federal prosecutors.
Whether or not to end the relationship and move out of the apartment is a judgement call based on your assessment of the risks VS benefits of these courses of action. I think that gets into a bit of personal advice which exceeds the scope of this sub. My hope is that my answers, along with the answers of others on here will help you to see the potential liabilities at work to make an informed decision for yourself.
If both of your names are on the lease, you are both held responsible for the terms of that lease. Ultimately, the landlord doesn't care if you, him, or the dog pays the rent. So long as it is paid on time and in full, they're good. If the rent is not paid on time and in full, the landlord can initiate action to collect. This can include eviction (and yes, even if you move out, and it's just your boyfriend living there, you can still be "evicted" from a place that you no longer live in), reporting on your credit history, and even civil claims (lawsuits) to compel payment. These actions would be taken against everyone on the lease, until such time as the money owed is satisfied. You could also be held liable for damages in a similar manner.
If it is your name only on the lease, and you have no sublease agreement between the two of you, you could kick him out, so long as you provide necessary notice as required under the law. If your name is on the lease, and you have a sub-lease agreement with him, then you could remove him under the terms of that lease.
If it is his name only on the lease, and there is no sub-lease between you... You can leave. He may attempt to bring civil action against you if there was some sort of promise to pay made by you. Any agreement pertaining to finances and your moving out should be in writing. If there is a sub-lease between you in this scenario, you moving out would be governed by those terms.
3. Cultivation may be a violation of your lease. If so, the cultivation would constitute a breach or default in that lease, which could lead to eviction for both of you.
I haven’t seen anyone asking yet, but he is planning to sell? That’s likely where your biggest risk comes in, especially on the federal level.
Other commenters are right about it being federally illegal, but small scale growing for personal consumption isn’t going to interest the feds.
If he grows under the limit for the number of plants legally allowable in California, in the eyes of many of the legal authorities in your state it’s “just a hobby”.