Largely because they couldn't. While air force commanders did claim they could bomb the Germans and Japanese into surrender, they never quite managed to do so. Even in Vietnam, which dropped far far more munitions, the air power didn't win the war.
Strategic bombing, especially in WW2 Germany, was no where near accurate enough to kill every soldier, and USAAF 8th air force wasn't usually aimed at soldiers anyhow (they preferred manufacturing and production, or cities). Adding to this, Germany was very good at repairing, replacing or simply rendering difficult to bomb the facilities that would be prime targets.
There are some real signs that strategic bombing simply wasn't cutting it. By 1945, despite constant bombings by the USAAF and RAF bomber command, the German Industry was far from crippled and at times actually exceeded its original abilities. That isn't to say that the bombings didnt have an effect, Doritz admitted it causes headaches, just wasn't war ending. Another factor however is that even the USAAF and RAF realized strategic bombing wasn't.
Part of this is simple reasoning. Bombs can cause a lot of damage, significantly so when you drop them in large quanities, but they don't really force someone with a rifle to stop unless they hit that person. They also had other major limitations that meant a dedicated force could usually not be bombed into surrendering. Limitations like you can't really fly constant bombing runs over everything, non guided bombing (dumb bombs) aren't very accurate, a bombing run costs supplies even if nobody gets damaged, and such.
Perhaps however the most damning reason why strategic bombing was not sufficient is that while the US and UK could spend forever and a half running bombing runs on the Germans, the Soviet army was far less safely secured. Where the British and US had the luxury of the English Channel, and a significant fleet, the Soviet army had a direct combat line with the Germans, and opening up additional fronts mean relaxing the struggle on the Red army and its allies. Remember that the Eastern front saw the biggest share of the fighting even after Normandy. Freeing up France was also probably a "To do" for Allied brass. Not to mention ending the war before war weariness caused trouble. England had been fighting for 6 years by the time the surrender came after all, prolonging it was not helping.
For an idea of how inaccurate the British were, check . Note that at the end of the war (where there is a sharp increase) the RAF under Harris were doing the equivalent of "not aiming" and just carpet bombing huge areas. When you stop trying to hit something specific, your accuracy goes up.
I'd known that part of the motivation for Dday was the Soviets demanding it for relief... I didn't realize why the UK and US actually did it. Because if Russia falls they fall.
The element I hadn't specifically thought of was the Soviets. If they lose in the east, Germany gains a huge amount of supplies and land and can prolong the war much longer or even win, with all of Russia in its control.
While I have no idea on the actual reasons the USAAF didnt want to bomb d day targets, I will mention that when they tried just before the invasion (including the day of) they ended up plowing some field with their bombs. The 8th air forces accuracy was abysmal against larger targets, and the weather over France was not helping.
I'm not even sure the Germans could srop the Soviets by 42, let alone 44 and 45. The Germans did a good job jamming themselves up though.
Also. By Normandy the concerns of soviets losing was far less. The soviets had withstood Stalingrad and Moscow. However,opening the French front meant Germans had to stretch supplies further, allowing the red army to punch into Germany faster as Germany fought on longer lines of supplies.
Antony Beevors book on D-Day has some interesting facts on the bombing campaign in Normandy. One of the reasons why the bombing of the German defenses on the beaches such as Omaha was so ineffective, was because the bombers were supposed to fly in over the Cotentin peninsular and fly along the coastline dropping their bombs. This would ensure that even if they overshot a bit, they would still hit the beaches. However this would also expose them to AA fire, so the Airforce decide to fly in from a 90 degree angle instead. However they overshot their target and ended up dropping their bombs in the marshes beyond the coastline.
I thought that by using Oboe, HS-2, Gee-H in combination with pathfinder markers, the British were actually able to bomb more accurately at night than the US was during the day? Not that the US was particularly accurate. Also, I thought that the Area Bombing Directive was only in effect until the end of 1942, after which the Casablanca Directive superseded it.
I'm reading D Day by Ambrose right now and it just mentioned that the air Force generals opposed bombing targets relevant to D Day but Eisenhower basically forced them and I was wondering why it is generally considered that he was "right".
Is it really accurate to say that British (and Polish) bombing became less accurate later in the war? Can we get sources for that?
1. Your Primary object will be the progressive destruction and dislocation of the German military, industrial, and economic system, and the undermining of the morale of the German people to a point where their capacity for armed resistance is fatally weakened.
In short, instead of bombing a city to simply cause as much damage both human, facilities and essentially anything else, in French campaigns (Which would be included in accuracy stats alongside German ones) they targeted specific enemy facilities or bases. Germany meanwhile was treated with a more open minded idea of what the target was. Misses will be more natural when you don't aim at the city. The graph I posted above doesn't include Berlin for a reason, it doesn't really show how accurate the raid is when its a city the size of Berlin.