Even when the employer is the state? That's all well and good, but is the rationale that you still can't sue in case something goes wrong because it's voluntary because you're free to quit your job? It seems like you'd be taking the vaccine under duress at the very least.
whats the duress? if its well an good then stop worrying about it and just go do it. if its "well and good" then calm down because its not a big deal. I dont even think you could properly define duress and actually apply it to what you are talking about here.
Mandatory vaccination, like social distancing and mask mandates, isn't to protect you from illness and death. It is.
Cool. Hopefully I don't suffer any long-term negative effects from a vaccine for a virus that I wasn't at risk from anyway. If so, hopefully I'll qualify for reparations in a decade or so. Thanks for the quick answer.
That's correct. The Federal government decided long before your childhood free of polio and mumps that there would be a single central vaccine injury fund for people actually injured by vaccines.
The vaccine is still voluntary, you are not being forced to take it. It may be a requirement for employment but is still voluntary.
Governor Inslee, and your employer, and the CDC, and the medical provider who gives you the inoculations, cannot be sued by you for injuries from the vaccine.
Because it is legal for an employer, public or private, to mandate vaccination as a condition of employment, any lawsuit you file alleging unlawful termination of employment will be handily dismissed.
to prevent you from spreading the virus to others, reducing its effective reproduction rate to below 1 so it stops killing thousands of people every day.
Then I hope the government never turns tyrannical and needs us commoners sedated into complacency, because the media will cover it up and half the country will compel the other half into complying or face unemployment.
If they're no longer in danger once I get the vaccine, then wouldn't they be just as safe if they and others who are at risk got the vaccine instead, thereby unable to catch it from me?
Why is it my responsibility to keep someone else from getting sick? Can't they get the vaccine if they want one?
It is not your responsibility, legally, to keep someone else from getting sick. The AIDS-era laws criminalizing negligent or transmission of an infection don't apply (and have largely been repealed).
This is a legal advice subreddit, so I will restrict my comments largely to the law and public policy.
But it's the government's interest in the public welfare to keep everyone from getting sick, and one of the tools they have is vaccination of everyone they can offer, encourage, or compel to take the vaccine. The Governor decided that because other methods have been unsuccessful that he will use this coercive one.
And at that point, we're probably stuck with a fatality rate of about 3% of the population annually. There won't be a point to having nursing homes, certainly, so dump your Aegis Living stock.
Viruses stop spreading once their "R-factor" goes under 1. SARS-CoV-19 Delta has an R-factor of 8 or 9.
Because of its high infectiousness and low lethality, it won't burn out. It just doesn't kill enough people. But it's mutating fast enough that if it can't be reduced to R<1 with widespread vaccination, it will mutate to higher infectiousness, higher lethality, and vaccine resistance.
My tolerance for those who refuse miniscule risks at the cost of actual unnecessary deaths is very, very low.
This Thanksgiving, if we're safely able to gather at all, there will be four empty chairs at our family table because of the virus. When I, a robust and vigorous man, got the virus despite careful masking and social distancing, I was weak as a kitten for two weeks. I have a freshly updated will and beneficiary forms, though.