In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
No, rather Facebook amplified the lunatic minority and then built their algorithm to show those lunatics to more people because lunacy drives clicks. Then gullible, intellectually lazy people took those amplified lunatics for their word and spiralled themselves into lunacy.
Because the left doesn’t know how to handle someone who uses a firehouse fallacy or argues in bad faith and the right just laps it up, even if it’s utter nonsense, so they can ‘own the libs’. There is no objective reality to them and hypocrisy, lying or obfuscating aren’t a problem, so long as it serves their political goals.
"Trolling" by installing a literal crazy person in a position that presides over one of our primary lawmaking bodies. Don't overreact everyone; they're just being silly. It's not like congress actually needs to accomplish anything for our lives not to go to complete shit.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
But that’s not true at all. Facebook amplified lunatics, sure, but it’s not like 40% of the country was stark raving mad and were all just incredible actors.
The greed of social and conventional media are solely to blame for what has happened in this country and the death of truth.
There was always an us v them background buzz in the US but most people were decent enough not to make it their entire personality. Now with the amplified extremist voices being shoved in their faces 24/7 it’s normalised being a total piece of shit to the point where people drop the pretext and decency altogether.
End of the day tho, normal people are genuinely decent if we just sat down and had conversations together rather than having anonymous ideological proxy battles over the internet. The only people who are winning currently are the people with lots of money who benefit from us being consumed with hatred for the “other side” rather than see how much they’ve taken from us. But that’s another conversation.