I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Title: Someone hit me while I was driving my brothers truck. They lied about having insurance and now he’s coming after me. Does he have a case?
You can pay them what they want, or wait for them to sue you. You, or your brother, could sue them, if they caused the accident. Without insurance on either side it's all about negotiation and then lawsuits (or none of the above).
Why are you planning on paying them anything if you believe the accident was your fault? (The police report is fine, but probably doesn't matter when it comes to a lawsuit unless the officer witnessed the accident.).
It was not my fault in the slightest I’m almost 100% sure. I was going straight through the intersection and the lady was going left and had to cross my traffic lane. But I know that’s only words when there’s not video and only have a picture. And yeah I figured that’s be the case. I just wanted to make sure they had a case before I paid them what they’re asking. They want $3,500. I would sue them but that doesn’t stop my brother from coming after me and I’d be out of even more money.
One of the reasons my brother didn’t want to sue is people don’t usually pay what they’re sued for. Is there a sure fire way to know that I’ll actually get the money im suing for? Or can she just avoid it for as long as possible?
That sounds absurd. Well, you can see if they sue or not. Why would you pay people a penny if they caused the damage?
No that's not how it works. It costs around $115 to sue in small claims court and you ask for that back. No lawyers required. You pay your brother, then you sue them for the amount you paid your brother.
Your county court website will have instructions on enforcing your judgement. It depends on your location and her means whether there’s any teeth to forcing them to pay.