The races listed on the US census are White, Black or African American, American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, and Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander. You can also say "multiracial" if that is a true, good faith answer.
Thank you. This answer seems quite functional. However, I'd like to know more specifically about this particular requirement in State Law. Is "race" defined by Texas for the purposes of filling out a juror questionnaire? Does Texas Law refer to the US census races?
No idea, but I seriously doubt Texas defines "race" at all in this context. You asked what answers would be true and correct, so that's what I gave you.
If you are asking because you want to play games with this -- don't. Just don't. This is important information in a criminal case, and the judge will come down on you like the wrath of God if you screw around in an attempt to make some kind of point or to evade jury duty.
Because despite the fact that race is entirely a social construct, these are the "races" the US government has settled on to count us for purposes of the census. It's not "right" in the sense of being scientifically correct, because race isn't scientific in the first place.
Again, thank you for the very practical answer, but what is the way that someone is supposed to know how to fill this out? Is it just based on something like what a "reasonable" person would define you as, or what? How is someone supposed to know what their race is, legally? Is it what you say it is, or someone else? If someone else, who, and by what criteria?
What race are you? Write it on the form. That's it. You're either screwing around over grossly overthinking this.
It is and they would, so that's what you write down. This is not a complicated, difficult question. Again, your are overthinking or trolling.
I'm sure this is very sound advice. You mentioned the census options, which I'm sure would work, maybe even if someone's appearance didn't really seem to match. Still looking for an answer to how the law knows those are the right possible answers though. Maybe there is no law concerning this and people assume, like you, that surely everyone knows the right answer; and if they don't, they deserve to be verbally pummeled by a judge. Maybe I'm in the wrong sub for this question.
There is no law concerning this with respect to how a juror identifies themselves. They just need to do so in good faith.
Because they do, to the extent that answer is based on what each person knows and reports in good faith.
Nobody has ever been "verbally pummeled by a judge" because they wrote down their race based on what they know their race to be and they were acting in good faith.
You know perfectly well what race you are. You knew by the time you were 5 or 6 years old if you grew up in the US. If you didn't, you knew within days (if not hours) of your arrival here. It's not credible to claim that you don't know what race you are.
I did not say otherwise. I said the judge will take you to task if you try to get cute or try to use this to get out of jury duty. Which is not at all the same thing.