The bank who cashed it fucked up big time. There's absolutely no situation under which they should've cashed out a cashier check written to a business. If you're going to go after anyone, it's the bank. That's fraud so I feel like the police would be able to obtain a warrant to get the information on who cashed it.
The local police wasn’t of much help and told me the management should find out how a check that was given to them ended up in the hands of someone who cashed it. Should I try with the police again or management?
In terms of making claims about the check, it seems like it’s on me since I requested the check and the money came out of my account.
I find it weird that the police is referring you back to the office. The bank that cashed it should have to launch a fraud investigation, which usually includes a police report, as its identity fraud. Try again with bank and police tomorrow. Let the banks fraud department know the police blew you off.
Whoever cashed the check has an account at the bank, or gave the teller their ID, phone number, possibly thumbprint. Or is on on it.
I used to work at a bank. Bank of America can absolutely find out where it was cashed. Those numbers on the back of the check have a meaning--the date it was cashed, along with the banks identification number. The will contact that bank and be able to find out exactly which teller handled the transaction. even if it was deposited via mobile, or ATM, there is SOMEONE that reviews those transactions. Call Bank of America's Fraud department immediately. It may take some time, but you should get your funds back. The fraud department will be able to get the police involved.
I think sometimes people overestimate how well police officers with their 3-4 months of training know the law. It’s possible the police don’t even know who’s really at fault, all they know is op gave the landlord a cashiers check and the landlord misplaced it and it got cashed. If the police here are wrong though I’d ask for their supervisor and discuss it with them knowing what you know from this thread.
I’m gonna try again with the police and involve the bank and see if they can see where it was cashed (not sure where it was, I just know when and the endorsement on the back).