IANAL but I have worked in plant security. First, those cameras suck anyway. Second, I would forward a copy of his policy to corporate HR, NOT your site's HR department but up the chain; if you can, copy someone from the corporate security or facilities department (again, not at your site, ABOVE those people). You can do this anonymously if you want to avoid retaliation. I would share your concerns and also ask if this is an appropriate use of either security's or the plant manager's time, especially if you're aware of any other safety or security concerns that are more pressing (e.g. theft, fights, vandalism, etc.), which I would bring up as well.
My guess is that 1. This manager is starting to make up his own policy (that corporate may not actually be aware of), and 2. Either he has too much free time on his hands to be going through all that video footage every day, or he's roped security into doing it for him. And if it's the latter, I'm sure they're not thrilled about such a tedious and pointless task being dumped on them, especially when they're enforcing HR policy instead of actual security. The company is paying for all that wasted effort one way or another. That's probably your best bet for getting this resolved.
Also, I'd say it's time to get a new job...but I've seen it before at these plants. I worked security at one place where plant management tried to rope security into telling workers they weren't allowed to leave, unless they were on break or had permission. None of us felt comfortable with that, and I reminded my staff that telling people they can't leave is detainment, which is an extremely tricky legal issue. Management stopped pushing after that.
No phones on the production floor I can understand. Tell me I can't leave my phone in my car. That I have to bring it in and put it in your locker. Absurd.
There's nothing illegal about this scenario. The policy is dumb and it sucks for the employees. That doesn't mean it's illegal. Should or shouldn't doesn't apply.
No law is being broken, they can ask you to search your car. However, jimmying the lock without your permission to check for compliance is illegal.