Disclaimer, I don’t know a ton about marches outside of Medieval Britain, so hopefully someone can fill us in around German, Spanish, French marches etc. But I’ll do my best with what I know!
Prestwich is the best when it comes to the Three Edwards - if you’re at all curious about the late 1200s, the second Barons rebellion, etc then please give these a read.
The Welsh Marches between core English areas and the domains of the welsh princes were originally set up during the Norman Conquest, as Norman nobles/adventurers swiftly built castles and expanded into areas previously demarcated as under welsh control. Granted, the Normans set up castles practically everywhere they could, densely populating England with their Motte and Bailey style forts - simple to build and helpful in establishing control over a rebellious countryside.
In the welsh regions, the Normans originally expanded quite rapidly, but a certain equilibrium established itself where the two groups would raid and battle, allying and betraying each other in dizzying fashion.
In the safer, ‘core’ English lands, William originally granted out lands/honours in disparate patches that were difficult to rule or manage from one place - its often cited as a strategy to keep his barons under control, as they wouldn’t hold compact, large blocks of land from which they could develop personal power bases and be a significant danger to the stability of the kingdom. What is more, barons in say Kent were (after some time) not allowed to build their own castles or privately war on their neighbours. There were always exceptions of course, but the purpose was to keep the nobles in line and out of open warfare with each other - a contrast to the chaos that marked 11th and 12th century France, for example.
In summary, the feudal system set up by the Normans limited the military capability of the King, in a way. Armies were expensive, taxes unpopular, and conflict on the Welsh frontier constant. Norman Kings relied on powerful, compact, militarily competent barons to defend and expand the Kingdom in Wales. These practically independent mini-realms of course created issues as time went on, and Marchers were at the center of countless rebellions, uprisings debates etc. Edward I, for example, relied on men like Roger Mortimer to provide troops for his victory over Montfort at Evesham. But Edward also began a process of weakening and legally consolidating the marchers into the wider Kingdom he ruled. With the earl of Gloucester, for example, who ruled a huge marcher lordship in Glamorgan, he essentially took his land away and granted it back under the understanding that it was no longer with the rights of a march. After the 1280s conquest of Wales by Edward, the welsh marches were far less important militarily - they continued to enjoy some residual rights however. Focus from the 1300s onwards was the Scottish Marches - a completely different but equally interesting story.
The Marchers, meanwhile, were specifically given these rights from the outset. A ‘Marcher Lord’ was given a compact region of land from which they were expected to raise large retinues of soldiers with whom they were to war upon their neighbours - often fighting each other practically as much as the welsh. Marcher lords could raid, build castles, establish their own alliances, and were basically expected to do so as the Normans continued to drive further into Welsh areas. Often Norman marchers married into welsh noble families, allied with them, and there grew up a ‘grey area’ of nominally welsh lords who were under the jurisdiction of English barons - this would become a major issue in the late 1200s as Princes of Wales like Llywelyn claimed their loyalties, despite their legal status being somewhat debatable.
This book is pretty short, but I appreciated it in this context for how it looked at the differences between the thegns and witan of the Anglo Saxons and the barons and Magnum Conciliam of the Normans.
Barlow is honestly my favorite for a comprehensive look at this period - his knowledge on the development of the justice systems is fascinating for example. He also does a great job going through the development of Norman and Angevin political systems and how they were shifts or continuities from the previous establishment.
Morris’ is maybe more than any book what made me fascinated with this era of history. His laser focus on the documents from the era of Edward’s conquest is just impressive. But he also explains the conflict between Gloucester (Marcher Lord of Glamorgan) and Edward so poetically and conclusively that it’s indispensable for this topic in particular.
This is totally fascinating. It’s my understanding that Marcher Lords (commensurate with their independence) were eventually considered of higher “rank” than a regular earl, but below a duke. Yet running a march entailed living on the border, far from the centers of influence and power. This seems to create a tension—high prestige but low culture. Did the Marcher Lords just spend a bunch of time traveling to London, or were they content with building their own pockets of comfort along the March?
Many marchers were given even greater rights and privileges within their lands. The ‘County Palatine’ of Chester, practically the chief fiefdom of the Marcher Lords, meant rights that essentially made the controller a King in their own land - they controlled courts, judges, sheriffs, and more that made them almost independent. Perhaps unsurprisingly, the Earl Palatines were often involved in baronial trouble - Ranulf of Chester is a classic case during the Anarchy, for example.
Dovetailing with what u/Model_Maj_General said, should be noted that there simply weren’t dukes, Marquesses, Viscounts etc until at least the 14th century in England. Prior to this the chief nobles were all Earls and all the influential nobles were known as Barons - regardless of technical rank. Our conception of a cleanly ranked nobility (especially in England) is practically early modern rather than strictly Medieval.
I'm familiar with the modern structure of the aristocracy, but not so much historically. I'm aware a Marquess never really actually held a March under that title, but wasn't sure the exact situation so thank you for the expanded knowledge!
That said, a Baron could hold lands in the Marches as well as the non-march regions of England. The Earl of Gloucester I mentioned, Gilbert de Clare, owned lands on either side of the border, and this gave him various benefits. As a marcher, he could mobilise and utilise resources far more freely than a non marcher could - during Madog’s rebellion in Wales, for example, he and the other marchers mobilized thousands of troops to put down the uprising completely separately from the Royal response. Disputes could also be settled outside of royal court. In fact one dispute with another marcher that led to raids and cattle theft helped inspire Edward to start stripping the Clares of their special place in the South Marches.
That all said, the King essentially was the final arbiter of who was a Earl or not. A ‘claim’ to the title was of course inherited by the descendants, but that didn’t always mean the heir received the title outright. Simon de Montfort, for example, inherited a distant claim on the Leicester earldom while his family were crusading in southern France. When things didn’t pan out, a basically penniless Montfort made his way to Henry III’s court and lobbied to have his inheritance ratified - he eventually got half of the traditional lands of be earldom of Leicester, but it provided him with rank, status, and wealth enough to catapult him to the top of English politics.
Without a hierarchical system of vassalage, would that mean Earls were personally responsible for directly administrating their respective realms? Was it common for Earls to accumulate multiple titles during the period?
More prestigious? Perhaps. Much prestige in the royal court came from the literal proximity to the royal person, but being rich and in command of competent military forces definitely helped. The Clares and Mortimers were major forces throughout the Montfort era for example. But major establish families like the Warrenes etc also wielded significant influence and power.
The Earls were enshrined as the highest nobility of the land. Some of the titles were so old they dated practically from the conquest - the Earl of Warrene for example, when asked by Edward’s commissioners where his rights came from, anecdotally grabbed a rusty sword from above the hearth and threw it down on the table shouting “there’s where my rights come from” - you gotta love it.
Wales lacked a centralised authority throughout the period - especially when compared to Scotland or England. There were brief periods under Llywelyn the Great or Llywelyn the last where large parts of Wales fell under one ruler, but even then the region was fragmented and plagued by familial and regional disputes. Essentially you could see the whole of Wales in this period as characterised by local leaders kind of...doing their own thing. Like I mentioned, Norman/English marchers were just as happy to ally with the Welsh rulers and take land from their countrymen as vice versa.
Speaking from a UK perspective, a Marquess ranks above an Earl and is below a Duke. Earls typically held counties inland, and Marquesses held Marches. So your understanding is correct.
Sorry, I might have been a little general. All influential nobles were known as ‘Barons’ - this is an unofficial rank, essentially just representing the tiny percentage of the population that owned a significant amount of land and had political, monetary or military ‘clout’ - like you mention.
I’d say you can actually draw some continuity between your freely raised Roman legions and the marches of the early/high medieval period.