I think HEG might be Hague, as in Hague Convention on the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction.
That being said, your parents need an attorney to help them regain custody. If your mother took the child and fled to another country in violation of a US custody order and did not respond to court orders to return the child to the US, this is a very complicated situation indeed. However, it does almost guarantee that the other parent will be awarded custody should the child ever be returned as the absconding parent has clearly displayed to the court that they cannot be trusted to have custody over the child and are willing to disregard court orders regarding the child.
If you had lawyers telling you that the information you had on him was not relevant to a custodial matter, that's probably the case. Shitty things he does that are not done in front of the child or to the child are unlikely to be considered as part of his parenting fitness.
It does not matter that the child's father had at one point decided he did not want to be in his child's life, if he wants to be involved now.
It does not matter that, in your and your mother's view, the child's relationship with the mother's new partner should be more important than the child's relationship with the father.
A child is generally viewed to have a right to a relationship with both parents. Until the father's rights are extinguished, he can always seek visitation or custody. So can the mother. The only factors that specifically matter are things that either suggest that one parent is trying to deny the other parent access, or suggest that the child will be in danger in the care of one of the parents.
It does matter that the father was previously unable to comply with the terms of custody orders. However, depending on how long it's been and on what enforcement happened at the time, it may matter a lot, or it may matter very little.
It does matter that the mother fled the country with their child. That's huge, and is almost certainly the primary reason he was awarded sole custody. The courts hate it when parents try to remove a child from their jurisdiction during a custody dispute, and awarding custody to the other parent is often a measure to ensure the child stays in the jurisdiction until both parents resolve their differences and come to an agreement.
" The only factors that specifically matter are things that either suggest that one parent is trying to deny the other parent access, or suggest that the child will be in danger in the care of one of the parents. ".
Yes, the Hague. They have tried attorneys but it was like very little was done and nothing we did helped. Ours said many of the things we had to use against him would not work.
\- Yes, in fact, the guy already has a son who acts up and has gone to jail before. His restriction orders are that of abusing women and one is holding a gun to their head and another is threatening women to kill their friends in gruesome ways. The court ignored these restriction orders.
" It does matter that the father was previously unable to comply with the terms of custody orders. However, depending on how long it's been and on what enforcement happened at the time, it may matter a lot, or it may matter very little. ".
" It does matter that the mother fled the country with their child. That's huge, and is almost certainly the primary reason he was awarded sole custody. The courts hate it when parents try to remove a child from their jurisdiction during a custody dispute, and awarding custody to the other parent is often a measure to ensure the child stays in the jurisdiction until both parents resolve their differences and come to an agreement. ".
What about the illegal and bribery he has done that we have evidence of? None of it was used against him like it was ignored. Could there be a reason for that?
No, their lawyers was not bribed. Who I'd say were bribed were the visitation lady. The first lawyers were just... they did not help. We had to leave a couple because they were really bad. From what I remember (was many months ago at the beginning of covid) they either lied or did not do their job for an unknown reason. The bribed lawyers were in the other country.
Texas does not consider child support to be an access fee to see one's kids. Delinquent child support usually is not a reason to withhold custody.
\- I haven't the time when he was told to pay child support but I 100% am sure that it was long enough but nothing was done about it still.
\- Yes, my father did not agree with my mom's leave saying that would happen and denied that she did so as the worst that would happen is he wins and she, only her, gets 2 hours visitations seeing as he tells many lies and having him grow up to be bad and hate us. She has a 3 or 6 year jail time in the US.
In what way does that bear on whether he can safely care for his child, or on whether he will comply with custody orders?
Your family is free to make police reports about it, and if your mother's lawyer accepted payments from your father to work against her interests, she should make a bar complaint with the help of a new lawyer: that's a career-ending decision.
We did not file reports about it but instead brought it up in court but with everything else, it was ignored.
That's the correct outcome from the point of view of the courts in Texas, and throughout the US. A judge in a custody hearing isn't there to determine which parent is in the wrong: they're there to try to ensure that both parents have access to their kid, and that both parents _support_ their kid.
An allegation that the child's father bribed a lawyer in some other jurisdiction is pretty much irrelevant unless it connects to one of those two factors.
Like I said, your mother's decision to leave the country is probably the biggest issue here. That's an action that shows a clear intention to deny your father access to his child, which makes it relevant to a custody proceeding. Nothing you've said so far has suggested that your mother was in the right to do so, or that she did any kind of followup on the reasons she had for making that decision, so that may be why a judge revoked her custody.
Your mother can apply to have visitation reinstated, but she should talk to her lawyer about the order and about the judge's stated reasons for it, and work with them on some strategy there. If it is actually about her moving out of the country, then having plans in place to ensure their child comes back would go a long ways. If I've missed the mark, the order should make clear the reasons the judge had for an extraordinary action like denying her custody, and she can deal with those issues.
I am sure she would be fine with dealing with any issues she faces as long as my brother isn't handed to the guy.
\- He is not my father. The person we are dealing with is another person who is the biological father of my brother. I said he is the person who my mother had the affair with.
I get that this is important to you, and I'm sorry I don't have better news. Custody disputes tend to either go incredibly smoothly or incredibly badly, with no middle ground. It sounds like this is in that second category. Please understand that you're an outsider - he may be your brother, but you're not his parent, so you have no standing to get involved.
Seeing as it is too late to do anything, can something new be done with my father? He is not biological, of course, but he has raised my brother for 4 years while the guy has only spent a few hours with him and hardly knows anything of him. Is it possible to bring my brother to him?
If you go to the custodial parent's home and take your brother without consent, you can face serious charges for kidnapping and could easily spend time in jail. It'll also make it _harder_ for your mother to ever regain visitation, if there's any indication at all that she had anything to do with it.
Your father and your mother can adopt your brother if your brother's father agrees, or if he abuses or neglects your brother badly enough and for long enough that your mother is able to apply to terminate his rights without his consent, or if he is absent from your brother's life for a period of years and does not respond to the petition to terminate his rights.
If your brother's father is actively seeking custody, and in fact only recently finished litigating custody, then it's unlikely he's willing to agree to an adoption right now and it's even more unlikely a court will find that he has abandoned his kid - four-year lapse up to this point notwithstanding. I'd expect your mother will be watching out for signs of child abuse and neglect, and she should act on that if she does see trouble, but for now, she's going to have to deal with her ex having sole custody.
That's something your mother should review with her lawyer _immediately_. If your mother and your father adopted your brother, then your brother's birth father may not have a right to custody at all. If this information was not presented during the custody hearing, or if the judge made a decision to award custody against the adoption order, that may be grounds to revisit the issue much more quickly.