I'm not sure why your lawyer told you that you have to pay for probate, but the fees in a simple uncontested probate procedure are pretty small. I think the biggest fees you'll even pay are filing fees ($435 in CA for the initial petition, petition for distribution, maybe a few other costs like the publication of his death in the newspaper, etc.). Because your dad wasn't married and you are his only children, you have priority to be appointed the personal representative, and you actually get paid (from his estate) to do that work.
In regards to the Mortgage and car loans, if you or your sister plan to keep the assets, you should go ahead and pay the bills. Even if you plan to sell, it's generally better to just pay the bills. You can and will be reimbursed from the estate for any of the payments made, just keep a record and receipts of what you've paid. Once you're appointed as the personal representative/administrator, you'll be to then pay all the bills associated with your dad's estate with estate funds rather than your own.
Hiring an actual probate lawyer will always be your best resource for your specific situation, but this is a decent overview to help you feel a bit less overwhelmed by the upcoming process:
I understand this can be very overwhelming especially when you're still dealing with the grief of losing a loved one. You should consider hiring (specifically) a probate lawyer to handle the probate procedure for you. It's a fairly simple process when it's an uncontested and small estate. In CA, the default is that both the lawyer and the personal representative will be paid a statutory fee at end of the probate during distribution, and this cost comes from the estate itself, not you. This fee is a flat amount based on the total value of the estate (4% of the first $100,000, 3% of the next $100,000, etc.).
If you don’t mind me asking. I’ve never understood the idea of being repairs through the estate for bills I pay now. Because if I’m the heir the money goes to me anyways. So it’s still my money that I’m being reimbursed with, right?
I meant repaid. Not repairs. I plan on keeping the house so And taking over the mortgage (well financing my own mortgage) so there is no cash to reimburse me with.
As an heir to the estate, yes you're being reimbursed with money that will technically be yours. However, we have this rule because estate administrators are not always also heirs to the estate. In contested probate circumstances, the court can appoint a neutral third party, usually a professional fiduciary to manage the estate during the contested action (think a will contest for example). If that person chose to quickly make a mortgage payment in order to avoid having the house go into foreclosure, we need a procedure with which to pay them back. Personal representatives have a duty to preserve and maintain estate assets during probate. A court will of course not force anyone to use personal funds to pay estate debts, but, in your case for example where you want to keep the house, it can be more beneficial to make the payment and avoid foreclosure or late penalties.
Another reason you might want to be reimbursed is that you are not the only heir, your sister is as well. In an intestate distribution (meaning there is no will), you will both split his estate 50/50. But if you've been the one paying the mortgage and the car loans without requesting reimbursement, those costs will not be shared by your sister. For example, let's say the estate is 100k. You paid 10k in bills and don't request a reimbursement. At distribution, you both get 50k, but you're actually only getting a net of 40k because of the money you've paid upfront.