You'll find a number of good books over on the BookList ( and check out Parnassus Books, over in Green Hills). For a one-volume history, These Truths by Jil Lepore is very good. It very easily takes the place of Howard Zinn's A People's History. Zinn's book has long been popular, as it claimed to tell the story of other people than heroic white males, but if you search this subreddit - he wasn't a historian, and historians really can't just pick and choose to tell people things they want to hear. Lepore is a historian; a good one, and she does not limit her attention to generals, presidents, and charismatic dead white guys.
Lepore's book does have something of an aversion to military history, though, and if you want to know more about the events, not just the political and intellectual origins of the War of Independence, Alan Taylors American Revolutions is very good. He wisely starts early, in 1750: that's when the population of the colonies and the British government really began to have different priorities, goals. And it also wisely ends at 1804, because many of the important changes in the US government did not come with the War, but later.
The history of much of the country west of the Alleghenies could be told as a narrative of colonial settlement driven by land speculators, and Tennessee was no exception. You might find Samuel Coles' (1924) diverting, when some poorer land speculators from Virginia ran up against some richer land speculators from North Carolina, couldn't get admitted to the US, and briefly found themselves running a land-locked nation, using animal hides for currency. You'll find much more succinct accounts ( I'm sure the Tennessee State Museum has something on Franklin) , but Coles has fun details.
James McPherson's Battle Cry of Freedom is still a great book on the Civil War. Stanley Horn's The Decisive Battle of Nashville will fill you in on much of the local history. You should also check out the Franklin Battlefield. The two battles were the end of John Bell Hood's Army of Tennessee. Franklin also could have been a useful lesson to the Europeans in 1914 on the new dangers of frontal assault tactics against newer, more modern weapons.
Eric Foner's Reconstruction is excellent- the sad tale of how the North won the war but the South kept much of its slave society.
I also recommend another bit of Nashville history, James Squires' Secrets of the Hopewell Box. Nashville was once just a little southern railroad town. I think now most Nashville residents haven't lived there more than ten years, and this will give you some notion of what the old days were like, when the low end of Broadway was filled with farm supply stores and light industry, and country music was just getting to be popular.
Tbh I find military history quite dull, but it is something I think most Americans know a bit about; the battles of such-and-such a field, that kind of thing, so I ought to look a bit at that.
Well, you'll notice Lepore's aversion when she pretty much leaves off at the Congress' agreement to declare independence and picks up again at Cornwallis' surrender at Yorktown. I can fully understand her not wanting to get into all the flanking maneuvers and uniform facings, but most people would say that the years between were, really, quite eventful and worth a narrative description.
The publication of her book was important enough for the American Historical Association ( the biggest historical organization in the US) to give four scholars some space in the December 2020 The Historical Review to talk about it. They liked some things- they liked the fact that she was trying to write a history of a nation with a common set of values, common purpose. They said that it was a good effort, well-written, scholarly. Now, given the fact that she teaches at Harvard and won the Bancroft prize at 33, that should not have been a surprise. However, I think in back of many minds is that the field of one-volume histories of the US has for some years now been dominated by pretty bad books, notably Zinn's A People's History over on the left and Schweikart's A Patriot's History way, way, way over on the right, so there's a sense of relief that at last there's something scholarly and up to date in one volume.
When looking at the reviews on Amazon, I saw loads of great reviews of These Truths, but also a bunch that were not just "it's biased because it's mean about America" which I ignored, but also "on page 150 this fact is wrong", "on page 23 this fact is wrong", etc. What did academic reviewers think of it?
But it's that limit of one volume that perhaps just sits wrong with academics. To fit all the US history into one volume, some things have to be left out. Now, if you were writing in the 1950's, you could just focus on all those wise, wealthy important white men who seemed to run everything, and could assume also that everyone who was not a white male would be content to read about them, and editing could be pretty simple. But Lepore had to meet the modern challenge of including other voices, other groups: to not only mention Cornwallis surrendering at Yorktown, but also all the escaped slaves who had taken refuge with his army suddenly threatened with re-enslavement. She was trying to write an inclusive history- but one volume is an exclusionary form. So, lots of things just had to get left out; and if you're a historian who specializes in one of those things ( and research does tend to specialize these days) you can feel aggrieved, and can quibble. I think most of the quibbles are just that- like I said, I wish she had included something on the War of Independence itself, but I don't think it disables her book. As far as including voices, though, perhaps the one voice that has felt the most excluded, that has more than a quibble, has been the Native Americans. Her rationale seems to have been that she had to focus on the nation of the US, and Native nations were, much of the time, outside of that....I think that argument is a bit thin. But , quite frankly, there could be an entire volume of history written on the Native nations that would be as thick as Lepore's- if you read Charles Mann's 1491 ( a very good book on the subject) you'll discover there is a lot of contention there. To come even close to doing the subject justice could have added enough chapters to upset the whole project.
Finally, my personal pet history obsession: Nashville TN is well with in the damage zones from the 1811-1812 New Madrid Earthquakes.
Primary answers require more knowledge than I own, so I'm inserting here to add: Nashville has a vibrant music history, and is very influential in country music, especially. If you can find a good music history book for Nashville influences, that might also be helpful.
For the "Local Color" content, it might be interesting to look for damage reports from the times. You may very well find a lot more reports than closer to the earthquake center(s), because Nashville, though small, was still more densely populated than Southern Missouri at the time.