They rented me a washer and a dryer that goes into the apartment ... Some of the apartments have hookups and some don't, so I chose a floorplan that did have a hookup. But apparently that specific unit does not .
The lease did not mention it one way or the other. The floorplan showed a washer and dryer hookups location but it was not specifically listed in the lease.
In your case you have extremely compelling evidence that your unit was represented as having a washer and drier hookup by virtue of the fact that it was advertised as having one and then they rented you a washer and drier to put in the unit. Since a washer and drier are a material feature of the apartment, not having one is a breach of the lease.
The "read your lease lol" crowd on here sometimes gives really stupid advice and this is one of those instances. Your lease doesn't need to list every single feature of the apartment and its rare that a lease would do that. If a feature was represented to you as being present in the apartment and then its not, then that's a violation of the lease even though the feature isn't explicitly listed in it.
If you haven't talked to the office about this yet I'd do that now and make it clear what it is that you want - IE, do you want to be transferred to an apartment with the same floorplan but a washer/drier hookup, do you want a rent reduction, do you want to get out the lease entirely?
If the office is refusing to work with you on this then your only option is to break the lease. You'd be strongly advised to talk to a lawyer that deals with landlord/tenant issues before doing that. Knowing your rights and vindicating them are two totally different things.
If you just walk away from the lease with a hostile landlord they'll make your life miserable for the next few years and this will very likely end up with you fighting them in court. At the very least, a letter from a lawyer can go a long way to getting a hostile landlord to just agree to let you out of the lease without you needing to engage in a drawn out legal fight.