The Germans actually had quite a bit of success in the level-bombing mission vs ships once they created their guided weapons, the "Fritz X" and Hs293. Both proved remarkably accurate.
They absolutely were used against submarines, and were quite useful in that role. If you want to include ASW activities, then many more warships would have to be tallied on the heavy bomber side. I didn't even consider that.
Except this time, it didn't work that way. At least one bomb (and possibly three) hit the Mutsuki, landing right in her engineering section. Some 40 or so men were killed, and the survivors were taken aboard another destroyer before she sunk.
Level bombing in general proved to be terrible at attacking moving ships, which makes the rare success all the more memorable.
During the Battle of the Eastern Solomons in August of 1942, a Japanese transport, the Kinryu Maru, had been crippled and the destroyer Mutsuki had been assigned to assist her. While alongside, eight B-17s appeared and dropped upon the two Japanese vessels. By this time in the war it was common knowledge that the big bombers were unlikely to hit anything from high altitude, so the Mutsuki did nothing to get out of the way... she wasn't going to be hit. That's just the way it worked.
So in a level bombing mode, heavy bombers were not good against ships. In lower level types of attack, they were more effective (but more vulnerable).
Weren't heavy bombers (B-17, B-24, Lancaster, Wellinon, and I'll add FW 290 200 Condor for color) employed in ASW duties in navalized variants (like the PB4Y1 and PB4Y2 Privateer for the Liberator-though the PB-1/B-17 naval was a late arrival)? I presume the altitude of operation, and numbers of craft in a formation, differed significantly from the 'stock' model, but I'm not exactly sure how--was their employment like that of an A-26 or other twin-engined medium bomber? Were these more successful not just against submarines, but other vessels? I suspect the same questions might be relevant for stand-off carrier vehicles used with the Fritz X and V-1 derivatives, as was also intended for the Mistel system. Strategic bombing from high altitude seems like a different thing all round.
(In short, was it solely the doctrine, or also the equipage, including the simple difficulty of operating a four-engined heavy bomber in a battlefield attack role of any kind?).