I'm not licensed in Nebraska, but generally speaking if you filed an answer that was "overlooked" a motion to vacate the default is something your attorney should have done immediately. If that wasn't done - find out why.
Your LL has a judgment in hand. They have leverage and want to collect on it. You can't force them to the table if they're not interested in being there.
even if i was negotiating a lump sum, i'd still either vacate the default or ask my adversary to consent to the vacate (assuming NE permits that). I can't imagine a reason NOT to.
Yes, that can happen. And in your title it says you are being sued, but it seems like the lawsuit is over, they have a judgement, so you're only paying the attorneys to negotiate how to settle the judgement, which likely wasn't ever going to be cost-effective. Can you elaborate on whether or not there is still an active lawsuit (and was there an appeal)?
More info here might be useful, but it's likely your husband did something incorrectly here, which led to where you are now. Or, the attorney missed something terribly. Can you elaborate?
Like everyone else said. He should’ve moved to set aside the default judgment. He also didn’t vacate the premises so constructive eviction is a bit out of the question (without more info, can’t tell).
It would be very unusual for a court to overlook a filed answer and grant a default judgment. It’s more likely that your husband didn’t correctly file the answer. Someone else has suggested the first thing your lawyer should have done was to file a motion to have the default judgment set aside if there are legal grounds to do so in your jurisdiction. Additionally, as to whether you’re husband owes the money, a pest problem that develops during the tenancy is not necessarily the landlords fault and does not necessarily permit the tenant to terminate the lease without consequence. This is significant because having a meritorious defense is usually required to set aside a judgment. Lastly, it is very rarely cost-effective to hire an attorney over a $5000 litigation matter. You have now turned it into an $8000 litigation matter. You might consider cutting your losses and paying the judgment. At least that’s what I would consider absent your attorney coming up with some cost-effective and time efficient defense.