In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I worked as a government contractor (my firm did) and we handled SBU sensitive but unclassified info and had to complete yearly training which was the identical class the government employees took.
The penalties included loss of employment (government employees, my firm wouldn’t fire me as I was the president) and potential prosecution including fines and imprisonment.
Whoever, lawfully having possession of, access to, control over, or being entrusted with any document, writing, code book, signal book, sketch, photograph, photographic negative, blueprint, plan, map, model, instrument, appliance, or note relating to the national defense, or information relating to the national defense which information the possessor has reason to believe could be used to the injury of the United States  or to the advantage of any foreign nation, willfully communicates, delivers, transmits or causes to be communicated, delivered, or transmitted or attempts to communicate, deliver, transmit or cause to be communicated, delivered or transmitted the same to any person not entitled to receive it, or WILLFULLY RETAINS the same and fails to deliver it on demand to the officer or employee of the United States entitled to receive it; or.
Hypocrisy is claiming your opponent should never be allowed to run for president because classified information wasn't handled properly, whilst the sitting President has been totally negligent with classified information.
No, you are purposefully misunderstanding. If you have/find documents, and you return them, you haven't WILLFULLY RETAINED them, you've done the opposite. That's the EXACT OPPOSITE of what Trump did. Trump was informed he had these documents and held on to them, ignored both NARA AND FBI requests to return them. THAT IS WILLFUL RETENTION, AND THAT IS THE CRIME. If you don't willfully retain, you're not committing a crime.. Jesus fuck, you seem to be purposefully not understanding the law on this.
This CRUCIAL fact makes it NOT a crime. The crime is WITHHOLDING with INTENT. There are whole legal arguments written about this when the first documents case came out. If the govt asks and you delay or say no, and it's national defence info, that's a crime, delaying is purposefully withholding the documents.
Edit: it was pointed out to me that intent is nebulous, well, here's what NOT NEBULOUS. Trump's camp knew he had these documents and stalled on returning them. That stall is willful retention. You know you have the documents, are asked they be returned, and don't. The don't part, THAT'S the crime. Biden found the documents and returned them immediately, no willful retention, no crime.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
They can say whatever the fuck they like, NARA says he returned them without them needing to ask. NARA counts here, they're the archivists, if they ask for classified documents and you give them to them. You haven't committed a crime by having them. You commit the crime when you have them, are asked for their return and don't.
Excuse me. I misspoke, I'll edit my original comment. See my other comments about willful retention. Trump was informed he had the documents and delayed to the point a search warrant was executed. Biden returned the documents as soon as discovered. Biden returning the documents when they were discovered and didn't need a search warrant to get them back to NARA, is the crucial difference between these two cases.