A classic retainer by definition is a fee paid to a professional for the purposes of ensuring their availability over a given timeframe. In a classic retainer agreement, they're paying you to basically take on less work, so that whenever they need you within that timeframe that you'd be immediately available. You can calculate the fee's cost by projecting how much money you'd lose by taking on a lesser workload for the specified period of time. The classic retainer agreement is non-refundable and does not count towards a final invoice.
First, establish if what they're looking for is a classic retainer agreement. A lot of time retainers are confused with advance fee payments, where they basically just pay you up-front for costs that will inevitably come up during your work process. If this is the case, then you should base the cost of that on services that people tend to jump ship afterwards, in the case of architecture I'd place that at the cost of an initial cost study + a couple hours worth of counselling/advising. From thereon out you should basically become part of the development process, keeping tabs on the budget and advising your client on certain design and material choices. The purpose of this kind of retainer is more for you than client, making sure that they don't suddenly back out and you're out a decent amount of cash and need to go through litigation to get it paid.
On a related tangent, when working for yourself you can be paid by the hour or by the job each method of payment has its benefits and detriments. Per hour, if your client asks for lots of extra things that you didn't factor in to the original amount then by the hour is better for you. Per job, is the job straight forward and you don't expect lots of extra work to be tacked on, then this is likely better for you.
As for pricing yourself, I would imagine you have an idea for how much you want to make per hour, include some costs for supplies, e.g. if a photoshop license is $20/month so divide that by 160 hours per month and you get $.125 per hour for the license. You can do the same with your computer but maybe over 2-3 years (2080 hours per year); or if you're a painter include the prices of paint for your jobs.
If you want a basic contract there are many sites that have some basic info on contracts. for example: But if you want a solid contract then speaking with a business attorney could help.
If you are a freelancer, make sure that you take into account self-employment tax, use of supplies and your own equipment, health insurance, and so on. Your freelance hourly rate should be 2-2.5x what a salaried employee would make. Don't make the mistake of undervaluing your time and expenses!