You’re absolutely right that France was not in a great place at the onset of the Revolutionary Wars. France did make strides in revitalizing their economy (or at the very least they stopped the bleeding) although it was the stunning success of their military that paved the way for economic recovery and made it possible to fend off such powerful opponents in the first place.
Just to sum up just how bad France was doing economically at the onset of the first coalition war in 1792, let’s do a quick recap. France was already facing massive debt before the revolution even began. The main reason Louis XVI even called the Estates General was to get approval to levy more taxes to help pay this debt off. In 1791, France lost control of the most lucrative colony in the world when Saint Domingue, modern day Haiti, was cut off by a massive slave revolt. In 1789, France tried issuing a new paper currency backed by gold seized Catholic Church property. At the onset of the war, the value of this currency plummeted as it was pumped out to try and pay down the national debt. I could go on, but the situation doesn’t get much brighter until the end of the 1790s.
What France lacked in economic wherewithal, they made up for with military prowess. Specifically, the French military had a massive manpower reserve, occasional skyrocketing morale, and Napoleon Bonapart. After a rocky start, French morale soared once they secured a few key victories in 1792, the same year the first coalition war broke out. With these victories, France occupied Belgium, territories along the Rhine river, and parts of the Medditerranian coast. It’s here that we begin to see how France’s military success translated into economic stability. France declared it was going to spread its new enlightened way of doing things in all of the territories now under its control, although the territories would be obligated to pay for the French forces in the region while they sorted out all of the details. In practice, the armies were now paying for themselves, which eased the burden of the struggling French government.
The cycle of military success leading to economic stability leading to more military success swung back around to France proper, when in 1793 France opted to commit all available resources of the nation to the war effort. This was unheard of in 18th century Europe, as the last 150 years had been defined by restrained “cabinet” wars. France took several steps to achieve this goal, culminating in the levée en Masse in 1793, which called up all unmarried men between 18–25 years of age, with others being funneled into manufacturing and agricultural work. Mobilization on this scale was simply unheard of, and gave the French an overwhelming boost to their manpower. This commitment to “total war” didn’t play out perfectly, but the end result was a massive net-positive to France’s military, and allowed them to shrug off the occasional defeat and still keep a large fighting force at the ready. David Bell has written a couple of books on Total War and the French Revolution, with The First Total War giving a particularly clear picture of the contrast between Revolutionary/Napoleonic warfare and earlier cabinet wars.
Jumping ahead a bit to 1796, we can see Napoleon really driving this cycle onwards, culminating in the French victory in the first coalition war in 1797. Napoleon was given given command of a withering French Army on the southern border near Italy and told to shore up France’s military position while the two main French armies meandered across Germany in the general direction of Austria while trying not to die of starvation, seeing as the French government had recently informed those two armies that they government no longer had the supplies or money to support them, and that they would need to live off the land (or pillage what they needed from the people who lived there). Napoleon had other plans, and quickly revitalized his army, captured half of northern Italy, and set his sights on the Austrian heartlands just on the other side of the Alps. The French government was literally figuratively bathing in all of the priceless Italian art, loot, gold, etc., that Napoleon was having his men ship back home by the cartload, and they didn’t want the gravy train to end just yet. This money was doing wonders for the still-struggling French economy, after all. They ordered Napoleon to wait in Northern Italy and strip away everything that wasn’t nailed down. Napoleon complied for a while, but it quickly became clear that he’d have a massive revolt on his hands. He figured with a few tens-of-thousands more men he could handle the revolt, but then he wouldn’t have the manpower to guard the Alps from Austrian counter-attacks, which had been rolling in at a steady pace since he’d first begun moving into Italy.
This primer in French/Napoleonic economics-by-conquest policy really just sets the stage for similar efforts at European reorganization and wealth extraction. Similar “sister” states were also created in Germany, the low countries, most of Italy, and Switzerland, while some territory was simply annexed, and other states retained their sovereignty in theory, but were bound so closely to France (or owed what little sovereignty they had to France) that they had no choice but to accept French demands for obscene amounts of economic support whenever they rolled in. Take Genoa, for example. In 1797, the Genoese sent a delegation to Paris to discuss terms of peace. While they were out, Napoleon swooped in and drew up and implemented a new constitution for the small Italian state and filled the ranks with Genoese Jacobins. Napoleon cheerfully remarked that the few non-Jacobins would be, “ripe for the shooting three weeks from now.” Napoleon rebranded the ancient Republic of Genoa to The Ligurian Republic, and as a christening gift, ordered the Genoese to loan France 800,000 Francs. See what I mean? For a cool, recently published account of what it was like to be an Italian politician in the French shadow, Erik Jacobs’ The Political Culture of the Sister Republics is worth checking out.
To sum up, France used its military and manpower advantages, aided in no small part by Napoleon, to shore up its economy, which would continue to struggle until Napoleon took major steps to stabilize it after coming to power, including doing away with the Assignat currency in favor of gold and silver. The baseline sources for the broader details of this answer are drawn from William Doyle’s Oxford History of the French Revolution and Georges Lefebvre’s handful of works on the French Revolution and Napoleon.
Napoleon being Napoleon, he solved both problems. Frist, he created a few “sister republics” in Italy by dissolving a handful of unlucky sovereign states and reorganizing them. He appointed puppet governments to keep milking them for all they’re worth lead them in his stead. Seizing the initiative, Napoleon rallied a chunk of his army, defeated the Last major Austrian-held fortress at Mantua, and started marching through the Alps into lightly defended Austrian territory. It was at this point that the Austrians quickly sought a ceasefire and later a peace treaty, ending the War of the First Coalition. For more detail on his Italian campaigns, Desmond Gregory’s Napoleon’s Italy and Michael Broers’ The Napoleonic Empire in Italy both give solid accounts of his exploits there in 1796–1797.
Ah as with most things in history, it comes down to a pretty wide combination of factors-- both on the French side and on the part of the allies.
Starting with the French economy, it's true that during the Revolution, France went through an evolving economic crisis. However it's not as straightforward as saying that their economy had crashed. While the assignat, the paper currency originally intended to be notes based upon the sale of nationalized Church lands, went through significant periods of devaluation and extraordinary inflation, the "war economy" of France shouldn't be discounted.
The assignats were often bypassed by trading instead trading "in-kind", however much more material to the war effort was the famous levée en masse, the mobilization of the entire country to arms. This decree, coming in 1793 in the midst of worsening French fortunes, was meant to do no less than focus the entire French nation on assisting with the war effort. It conscripted young men into the armed forces, women into nursing, children into linen making. Not to mention my favorite part of the decree, whereby old men were to take to their public squares to denounce monarchy and inspire virtue and love of country. For the economy, though, nothing acts like a shot in the arm more than a concerted war mobilization effort. In the industrial cities, factories were churning out arms, munitions, uniforms, etc., paid for by the state and staffed by urban workers. This effort propelled the nation forward during the early stages of the war, when France was still on the losing side. However by the end of 1793 and moving into 1794, France began to see themselves resurgant.
The French successes in the face of nearly unanimous opposition is explained in two parts, both equally important-- French committment to defense of their homeland and the principles of the Revolution, and the allied forces's (esp. Prussia and Austria) underestimation of, and lack of focus on, the French. Let's talk about the French forces first.
One of the key questions you're getting at is: why were the professional standing armies of two great powers-- Austria and Prussia-- unable to defeat the raag French? While we've discussed this from the French side, let's talk about their opponents.
At the end of the day, it's hard to weigh the relative weight of each of these factors, as they all worked together in complicated ways to make history play out the way that it did. There is always more to say on the matter, but I hope this helped elucidate the question!