So you acknowledge that you indeed did sign for the loan, but your defense for not paying is....? It is not uncommon to take out a student loan in anticipation that a future employer "may" pay it back in exchange for your working for them. The key here is "may". You as the individual are ultimately responsible to make payments. There is no guaranty that you will actually graduate and get the degree, nor actually work for an employer long enough to have the employer repay.
My guess is that what you think are two different documents are actually the same and the headings you’re talking about are administrative requirements for certifying copies and submission through the electronic system. As for the statement you claim they added, are you saying they altered the text in the contract to include that sentence? What does your copy of the contract say when side by side with this new one they’ve filed?
Also, this is , for lack of a better term "work study". There was an alleged termination involved, of which I was ultimately given no direct reason. So, in that way I was "blocked" from getting further benefit. However, I did collect unemployment, and it was not protested by the employer. Like I said, there is a lot more to that case, but in the end , the "why" doesn't matter due to the way the bank has decided to bring this case to the court. I have no money to hire an attorney , let alone bring in the 3rd parties. They way the bank presents the case is "This guy with horrible credit walked in here and we gave him a signature loan. He didn't pay it back, so he owes us now (even though I am and was never credit worthy)". In reality they gave the loan because they took a gamble on all participants that they would complete the program and the agency would pay them back with interest. That didn't work out for bank, so they go after the little guy after the fact, using 3 counts to get a case in to small claims that should be in civil based on dollar amount.
You’re asking a question that we can’t possibly answer with the information you’ve provided. Theres no simple legal answer here. Without reading the pleadings, it’s impossible to know why they lost on summary judgement. It may have been your presentation like you said but it also could have been their specific arguments or procedures and standards the court must follow. It’s almost impossible to know what this amended document is that you’re talking about. It won’t get past the judge if it’s evident of some sort of fraud. The attorneys for the bank would have to be really, really, really stupid to open themselves up to sanctions, have the case dismissed, and a host of other problems. With this being small claims, nobody is going to risk their job for chump change.
Thank you for your reply. I'm not sure that I would need to post or send the case documents, but I can understand your confusion.
Thanks, but with all due respect that's not exactly the nature of this case. Also, I'm not directly acknowledging I signed anything, as this was all point and click "e-signature". You are correct in pointing out the grey area, but how can it be allowed for plaintiff to submit two different versions of the same alleged document. I've been rehearsing my defense, and the first that comes to mind is "Your Honor, the plaintiff has submitted a second version of their document, which fancifully contains an alleged addendum allegedly initialed by me. This addendum was conveniently not in the initial complaint, and only added after that complaint failed to produce a summary judgement. How can the court know which if any of these documents are the actual documents, and due to electronic signature, how can the court know which , if any, terms I actually agreed to.
As stated, the (initial) complaint on the case appears to be a "standard" loan agreement based on the terms of the actual alleged loan for the alleged debt. It's called a "loanliner" which I've learned is a company that makes these sort of cookie cutter docs for credit unions.
Also as previous stated in more detail, I made an issue out of the complexity of the case, and presented a "welcome packet" document, which actually states the the government agency was to pay the loan. This was authored by an employee at the bank. Now, as the previous poster mentioned, obviously the bank intended to setup this little investment scheme with the mostly broke program participants holding the bag if the government didn't come through with the payments.
In response to losing their motion for summary judgement , and I believe due to my presentation, the plaintiff submitted this copy of sorts of the "loanliner" doc, as a misc filing. In that submission, there is this one page disclaimer type document , which has a different letter head and is from the residency program. Between the bank, and all the agencies involved, there were many documents being e-signed without much reading. It's interesting as there is also a letterhead showing some docusign "id". I guess it's considered some kind of "proof" this disclaimer page is part of the "loanliner" agreement. to me, that should not or may not matter, because it simply was not included in the initial complaint, which was misleading.
I don't know that any of this rises to intentional fraud on the part of the plaintiff, but I don't know that is has to, because it IS clear the plaintiff added this "disclaimer" doc, stuck it in their previously filed complaint and resubmitted. Obvious so they can say "see judge he's wrong. we made him sign a disclaimer too" SMH.
I appreciate the reply. The key I believe you are missing here is: The employer did not sign for the loan. They were not obligated for the loan. You are.
As for the third party you feel is responsible, you actually could have brought them into this lawsuit yourself. These are called third-party complaints. It’s too late now more than likely but you can read about it (and all the other rules for small claims procedures in Florida) here:
In my opinion , the disclaimer should make the plaintiff look worse, because they've , in part, confirmed my defense on this case, and also now all but admitted to the court that they were counting on the lump sum payoff from the government agency.
What I was getting at with my question is any case law or general rules for plaintiffs trying to substantially modify their original complaint, or the document(s) contained therein. You might agree that this seems wrong on its face. In this case it amounts to "oh, so Mr. Debtor has the judge doubting our case because of the 3rd party we said would pay off the loan. etc. We'll solve that by changing/modifying our initial complaint to include this handy disclaimer that the residency program coerced him to sign.".
Next, amending a complaint for reasons you’ve described is a normal part of the court process. It sounds like you raised a defense (reliance on that third party) their original pleading didn’t address fully. It was filed after they lost their motion for summary judgement because that hearing showed them what loose ends needed tied together. By filing this disclaimer from your residency program, they are refuting your claim that re-payment was the third party’s responsibility.
I think this sort of case , if brought before a court, should require to be filed in civil court, and should bring in the 3rd parties and really prove the poor debtor actually owed this money.. I talked to an attorney about a year ago about it, and he said it would cost me 30,000 in attorney fees to do something like that. I think he was half wrong , as that's clearly the plaintiff's responsibility. They ae the ones trying to sue for over 15,000 in small claims court, and trying to pull the wool over the eyes of the judge, as if they gave someone with poor credit, in foreclosure, a "signature" loan with the expectation he'd pay that loan back, and be able to do so.
If you lose your case but feel your case is strong, you could always attempt to sue the third party in a separate lawsuit to recoup your losses. You may have a better case against the third party than the bank based on the specifics of the arrangement. I am totally speculating because I don’t know any of the facts in this case, but wanted to make that point.
I wasn’t asking you to supply the court documents. I was only explaining what it would take to get you a (possibly) straightforward answer.
That an interesting and blatantly obvious deduction. Perhaps I can frame my question a different way. If the approach that this is just another open and shut debt collection case decided for the plaintiff .... then why do you suppose the judge didn't easily grant their motion for summary judgement? I mean, the plaintiff stated exactly what you said several times, however they didn't win then. I'm puzzled as to why it will become an open and shut case at trial, especially when the filing by the plaintiff seems to introduce more doubt.
How are you going to address this major discrepancy? Do you have a copy of the contract you e-signed from when you signed it? If you don’t, how can you argue against what it says? Are your classmates going to be witnesses for you? You being in foreclosure or having bad credit has nothing to do with this, by the way—education related loans do not go have the same requirements as other loans by nature.
When I asked about all of this before the hearing for MSJ, the attorneys and online crew said I would lose at that hearing for these same reasons you've mentioned. However, I didn't. Other than my status as a struggling single Father, and the letter from the bank regarding repayment, nothing much had changed from then to now. The judge had indicated sympathy for my circumstances at the pre-trial which distracted me from requesting a jury trial, which I understand may have at least dragged this out much longer. In fact, I had hoped they would have dismissed the case after losing their MSJ.