Condo lawyer here, but not licensed in your state and definitely not your lawyer, so you should consult with a condo attorney in CO for specific advice because condo law can be complicated and not in your favor.
In my state at least, the law is 100% in favor of the association and not the unit owner. Here, the unit owner must pay the association's attorney's fees for any actions brought against the unit owner to enforce the condo's governing documents. Effectively, in my state, in order to stop the accrual of attorney's fees in addition to the original fine/fee/cost, you need to pay the fine/fee/cost and outstanding attorney's fees under protest. That effectively brings your unit's account balance to zero. After that, the law requires the unit owner to bring a lawsuit against the association to demand the money back, and you can present whatever defense you want to explain why you should not have been assessed the fine/fee/cost in the first place and why you should not have had to pay the attorney's fees.
I have no idea if CO condo law is similar to my state, but if it is, you need to respond ASAP and may need the advice of competent condo counsel. That means not hiring any schmuck out of the yellow pages because condo law is a niche market that has different rules than general litigation. Good luck.
Based on my experience, I would not buy a place with an HOA again. To be fair though there does seem to be plenty of potential downsides without an HOA.
It's all going to depend on the specific bylaws/CCRs and whether you had appropriate notice of fines. Unfortunately, that means you're probably not going to get a useful answer from this sub. The only real advice I can give you is to save (and back up) whatever communication you got from the board acknowledging that some of their letters were returned. If you don't have a written communication of that fact, then make a memo of it ASAP and record all the details (who said it, when did they say it, where were you when they said it, who else witnessed it, etc.). Other than that, just be transparent with your attorney and listen to what they tell you.
Big picture, I can tell you that I've read enough horror stories about HOAs that I'm very reluctant to ever buy a property where I'd have to join one. But I'd never advise you to sell your condo without 1000% more information. No one on the sub has enough context to advise you intelligently on that sort of thing.