For those interested in pursuing this report further, the source appears to be Eduardo Galeano's Open Veins of Latin America: Five Centuries of the Pillage of a Continent (1973) \[p.11 of the 1997 reprint edition\]. The book was originally published in Spanish as Las Venas Abiertas de América Latina in 1971. It does contain references, but, unfortunately, this specific claim is not footnoted.
Interestingly, Galeano writes that these "strange corpses" and odd pieces of wood were not in fact seen as "some kind of evidence of a populated continent west of Europe," as you put it – despite the finds, he says, "no one suspected that the world was about to be startlingly extended by a great new land." Rather, he implies that the contemporary Portuguese ought to have interpreted such finds that way.
Galeano (1940-2015) was a Uruguayan journalist, rather than an historian, and his book does not feature archival research. On this basis, I would expect his source, presuming there was one, to be a secondary one that was written in Spanish. I think it's interesting to note that the Spanish phrase cuerpos extraños can be translated both as "strange corpses" and as "foreign bodies", and so I do wonder at the choices that Galeano's translator is making here. It seems possible that the reference might simply have been to evidence of Barbary corsair wrecks or similar being found at sea. I can't see any reason why this should necessarily have prompted speculation in Portugal about unknown continents.
Are the currents such that if someone drowned on the east coast of America that a body could wash ashore in Portugal? Even 1 in 10,000 times?
I agree, it seems beyond the realm of all possibility. I suppose if the corpse were in a canoe it becomes ever so slightly possible, but still extremely unlikely.
Funny enough, this is what I was looking at (from a front page post on the Science subreddit) right before coming to this thread:
If Monkeys can make it from Africa to South America, on floating vegetation, alive, the idea that some native of North/South America could make it partway across in a canoe, perish, and have their body make it to Europe seems entirely plausible to me!
This is a very interesting debate that I remember having come up here several years ago – can't find it now, unfortunately. But there are similar reports of people in kayaks being seen in Scotland in Orkney (1682) and even as far south as Aberdeen (1728), and as one of these vessels in the University of Aberdeen collection, it has sometimes been considered possible that Inuit hunters might be swept that far south from a starting point in Greenland. But who doubt this and prefer an origin closer to home, citing a contemporary story in which a.
Perhaps, then, two Greenlanders could possibly wash up in Ireland, though whether the same might apply to the coasts of Spain and Portugal I would think must be much more doubtful.
The Aberdeen kayaker was still alive when found and according to the Reverend Francis Gastrell, writing more than a three decades later, but quite possibly with access to contemporary materials and eyewitness reports, the vessel was.
>a canoe about seven yards long by two feet wide, which about 32 years since was driven into the Don with a man in it who was all over hairy, and spoke a language which no person there could interpret. He lived but three days, though all possible care was taken to recover him.