This is a really fascinating question, and I’m not sure how far I’ll be able to do justice to it. My interest here is much more in the history of opposition to fascism – that is, why do efforts to oppose the rise of fascism succeed or fail in interwar Europe. The question you’ve asked has obvious relevance to this broader issue – basically, did the German Communist Party’s (KPD) tactics prior to 1933 condemn German resistance to Nazism? Why didn’t German communists seek to cooperate with other enemies of the Nazi Party, instead of focusing their political attacks on potential allies like Social Democrats? On one level, this is an impossible historical ‘what if?’ – we can’t know whether a more unified German left would have forestalled the rise of Hitler. But we can seek to understand and explain why things happened the way they did.
Recent German, and to a lesser extent Italian, history offers some of the explanation. In both countries, revolutionary unrest was put down by paramilitary forces, often composed of demobilised veterans of the war. In Italy, of course, these were the beginnings of the Fascist Party itself, which established itself across much of Italy (particularly the north) by crushing socialist strikes and occupations when local authorities were unwilling or unable to, to the delight of local business owners and the Italian middle class. The success of Italian fascism, therefore, depending on the ability to violently disrupt and demoralise the organised left. In Germany, a similar role was played by Freikorps, paramilitary groups made up predominantly of military veterans who flourished in aftermath of Germany’s defeat. Most famously in the case of the Spartacist Uprising in January 1919, they were used by the government to help crush revolutionary unrest, including by murdering key leaders like Rosa Luxemburg and Karl Liebknecht.
In Germany, however, there was a unique twist: it was a Socialist Party (SPD) chancellor, Friedrich Ebert who gave the order to bring in the Freikorps to Berlin, and was held responsible for the violence. In Germany, the SPD aligned itself within a so-called ‘coalition of order’ in Weimar Germany, made up of the political groupings whose priority was ensuring social stability and discipline against the revolutionary threat of the far left and, to a lesser extent, the far right. The SPD, therefore, was an active participant in proposing and passing measures that attacked the KPD throughout the 1920s, in terms of restrictive legislation, but also as the political leaders who led (often violent) national or regional responses to communist-backed strikes and demonstrations. In other words, from the KPD’s perspective, the SPD had proven that it preferred to uphold the capitalistic status quo rather than throw its lot in with a socialist revolution, showing where its true loyalties lay.
The lesson learned by anti-fascists in the 1920s was simple: the far right is violent, and if unopposed will not hesitate to crush the left, with the tacit or open approval of the state. As such, the KPD in particular provided a key source of grassroots resistance to Nazi violence directed against working-class communities through organisations like the Roter Frontkämpferbund. This paramilitary-style group, with local chapters in many German cities and towns, sought to confront and defend against fascist violence directly, as well as defending communist rallies from disruption by police and Nazis alike. They were often successful on a tactical level in defending themselves, as well as more aggressively taking the fight to the Nazis directly on occasion. But though it prevented the piecemeal destruction of the German left, as had been the case in Italy, it was also not a winning strategy.
For one, the situation was made worse by the Great Depression. It now genuinely appeared as if capitalism was experiencing its long-prophesised final crisis, and the hour for revolution was drawing close. This made assembling the most powerful revolutionary party possible the main goal – and this meant competing for socialist working-class support on the left. This was the strategy employed by Communist Parties across the world (orchestrated by the Communist International in Moscow, in which the KPD was very influential), but it was in Germany where it found the most enthusiastic support among communists, who were already predisposed to seeing the SPD as their main enemy. This helped further radicalise the KPD – their increasing reliance on the unemployed for support, for instance, diminished their influence in the workplace and led to them conducting their politics on the streets, invoking spectacle and violence as their key form of political engagement. Yet this ignored a key plank of Nazi success. While fascist success is dependent on violence, and being seen to offer radical violent (either implicitly or explicitly) solutions to societal problems, it also rests on victimhood. The Nazis campaigned on the basis that German society was collapsing, with traditional elites no longer able to contain the revolutionary chaos caused by Bolshevism. Only the Nazis, with their willingness to take the required firm measures to restore order, were able to offer a solution to these problems. This meant that every time the Nazis were on the receiving end of violence at the hands of communist-backed paramilitaries, they could use this to reinforce this message: Germany is now ungovernable, unless you put us in charge. It’s worth remembering that the KPD was the other major beneficiary of the post-1929 crisis: as the communists gained strenh, more and more non-communists started to buy the Nazi message that only they could contain the rising tide of revolutionary chaos.
In the aftermath of the Nazi rise to power, and their successful suppression of communists and socialists alike, it was clear that the KPD’s strategy had been flawed. Fascism, it was clear, could not be allowed to gain power and get the chance to turn the resources of the state towards suppressing its political enemies. This realisation led to a conception of anti-fascism not simply as opposition or resistance to fascist organisations, but as a unifying ideology. Communists around the world reversed their policies entirely: no longer were socialists and other leftist enemies to be condemned as ‘social fascist’ enemies, they were now vital allies in a united front against fascism. Efforts to build such anti-fascist alliances saw mixed success over the rest of the decade, , but laid some of the groundwork for effective domestic and international resistance to further fascist expansion, both in specific contexts but also in building a wider political consensus that eventually saw an anti-fascist coalition ranging from communists to Churchill fight and win the Second World War.
This strategic ‘turn’, which took place over the course of 1934-5, is generally known as the ‘Popular Front’, which was embraced enthusiastically and successfully by many Communist Parties around the world. It’s worth noting though – particularly in light of your question about whether German communists regretted their tactics – that the KPD were among the last to accept this shift, and implemented it only reluctantly and ineffectively. After the end of the Second World War – and a shift back to the rhetoric of ‘social fascism’ and viewing social democracy as the key enemy following the founding of the ‘Cominform’ in 1947, German communists happily returned to the language and attitudes of the 1920s. It’s worth noting, of course, that many of the politicians who ran the East German state for its entire existence had come of age in the KPD under Weimar in the 1920s, and its politics of confrontation and intransigence became something to be nostalgically valorised rather than condemned.
Edit 2: Take the time to read further down for from the perspective of the international communist movement and its responses to fascism from u/NiftyJasmine.
Eric Weitz, Creating German Communism, 1890-1990: From Popular Protests to Socialist State (Princeton, 1997).
Michael Seidman, Transatlantic Antifascisms: From the Spanish Civil War to the end of World War II (Cambridge, 2017).
Tim Rees and Andrew Thorpe (eds.), International Communism and the Communist International, 1919–43 (Manchester, 1998).
Catherine Epstein, The Last Revolutionaries: German Communists and Their Century (Cambridge MA, 2003).
Tom Buchanan, ‘Anti-fascism and Democracy in the 1930s’, European History Quarterly 32:1 (2002), pp. 39–57.
Hah, that is a big question. Ironically, perhaps, I think this view is rather compatible with the traditional Marxist explanation of fascism as the last gasp of capitalism, with the bourgeoisie resorting to naked violence to preserve their property - in this sense yes, fascism was a reaction to the imminent success of socialism.
I was thinking as well of the fascists in Italy - lessons learned transnationally as well as domestically. While I agree that the Freikorps were diverse, I don't think that at least generally speaking "far right" is that off the mark. More to the point, more recognisably fascist or proto-fascist ultranationalist parties were already emerging by the early 1920s, including the Nazi Party of course - with a fair degree of continuity with postwar veterans groups to boot.
If you don't mind, can you mention what far right/fascistic group(s) this phrase refers to? Until this point you had only mentioned the Freikorps as a group that is not left-wing and from a surface level search they seem to be a mish-mash of opinions. Or is the phrase anticipating the conclusion of later anti-fascist group?