In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Then charge him, go to trial, and let his level of cooperation or obstruction determine his sentencing. Why should prosecutors be given free reign to use the law in order to intimidate, manipulate, and coerce people for their own agenda, even one I might agree with? Either the law and evidence calls for Wiselberg to be indicted or it doesn’t. Who cares if he could flip on Trump?
Not a witness, a fall guy for the boss, a criminal, still not a witness. He participated in systematic insurance fraud and I suspect he will be charged with felonies for that in time, the wheels move slowly but they will in time crush Trump and those surrounding him. October 23 the James trial begins and to quote the judge it will start October 23 come "hell or high water", yes that's the judge saying that.
I hate how prosecutors use the threat of indictments to get witnesses to cooperate, either they committed a crime by breaking the law or they did not. Leniency for cooperation should ONLY be available during sentencing, not for indictments. One of the best recent example of this is Jeffrey Epstein’s NPA. Another example is the prosecution of Cohen while Trump walks free.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
You can't prosecute all crimes you may have evidence for. There is just not enough resources. If we did, we'd just endlessly pile up charges on individuals who are already behind bars.
That's what I understood though: He would be prosecuted in order to get him to flip during sentencing. Prosecutors would not pursue the charge otherwise. Letting charges slip is normal. Would you charge a serial murderer of several murders and... theft? Maybe but it doesn't sound necessary.