He basically kept saying we can't have the payment with $350 if I went with a term for 36 months. I'll get into the math of it now, we agreed for the fees with the car to be $17K (I shouldn't have, but it's whatever) and if they take $2K as they dealership fees and $2K for the down payment, then that leave $3.5K left for the actual down payment on the car, thus the loan amount should have been $17K-$4K-$3.5K= $9.5K by their mathematics. I wanted the term to be 36 months and for that final loan amount it comes out $282/month with a 4.29% APR, so I should have gotten this monthly payment for this term but he lied to me about how much it's supposed to be.
Also, he tacked on the warranty without explaining how much it is and what it is, after they had "straightened" out our numbers to be $297 for 60 months, which comes out to 17K to be paid on top of the $7.5K we gave them already.
I really got myself suckered, but I didn't realize that he placed the loan amount was $16K, and only noted $6K as the down payment and not noting the other $1.5K we gave.
You might want to consult a lawyer in your area, but given the time that has passed and your agreement to the deal at the time, I don’t see much hope for rescission of the sale.
I checked the laws for cooking off and while the contract says are none in NY, the FTC says that it refers to 3 business days rather than 3 actual days. It also says that Saturday is also a business day, so with Sunday and Labor Day not counting. My last day to try to cancel is on Tuesday, the 3rd business day within the sale of the car last Thursday.
He said you had to take these particular terms to get the car. That’s not “force.” You were free to get up and walk out. When it became clear he was lying and changing his story, you should have said you can’t buy a car from such an untrustworthy person and left.
I will most definitely be getting a lawyer on Tuesday morning so I know what I can do, it might have be just a contract void and a full refund and return for my old car. I just pray that I can still have a way out of this moronic deal.