I am pretty sure in terms of "I don't give a flying fuck what you think" Lukashenko is probably just ever so slightly above Putin for most Ukrainians.
That's the crazy thing to me--all of their mightier than thou declarations would be so threatening if they were winning the war and crushing Ukraine.
Instead they're being pushed back on nearly all fronts, Russia is rotting from within faster than ever before (allegedly), and the EU took the step to declare Russia a state sponsor of terrorism (which is a hefty charge loaded with diplomatic weight).
..... all the threats appear weak and feeble in the face of losing, and they keep losing more and more traction because they won't (can't?) back up their threats.
Ukrainians aren't going to give up though. As bad as things get, there's now nine months worth of video evidence from the occupied territories of just how much worse they'll get if Russia takes over. The barbaric way the Russians have acted in Ukraine has basically guaranteed that the Ukrainians are going to fight to the last.
They will act like they can win if for no other reason than to maintain support in their domestic base, many of whom get their news of the world from Russian state media.
They also know that despite Russia being on the backfoot, Ukraine is suffering a devastating amount of economic loss. The war is on Ukrainian turf afterall and it's Ukrainian cities being wiped out. Russia wants to send the message, "yes we're bleeding, but so are you and we're willing to bleed as long as it takes to bleed you dry". (Whether that claim can be backed up is a different story).
And the west will have no trouble sending them weapons and supplies and money for as long as it takes. Helping Ukrainians defend their country is a popular cause, and a just one. It's also an opportunity to remove Russia as a credible military threat for a generation or more, at a very cheap price.
That said, even with NATO interoperability, integrating scattershot equipment donated from across the world must be a nightmare for the poor bastards who have to manage the supply and maintenance of all that equipment, as well as all their old Soviet kit that's in different states of repair. That the Ukrainian military is functioning as well as it is is kind of miraculous to me.