Why didn't you file a police report a year ago? File one now. Goodness. All you need to do to file a police report is believe a crime was committed. If you come home and your door is kicked in and all your stuff is gone, do you wait to call the police until your neighbor can point a finger at someone?
(Also Doordash will never point the finger at anyone, no company will, it would be a horrible practice. But also Doordash isn't the police or a detective. They're never going to tell you a restaurant. The liability is huge if they do.).
It's been three days. Nothing indicates criminal activity on the part of DoorDash. But yes, you should file a police report about the actual identity theft/fraudulent charge.
Also, for the love of God, do what you should have done a year ago and remove your debit card from DoorDash completely. If you have to, buy a prepaid Visa with a $25 limit and replace it with that instead. And change your password to a robust one. At this point, you should also get a new debit card from your bank with a new number.
Using a debit card online at all is a terrible idea, because you don't have nearly as many protections as you do with a credit card. If you don't have a credit card, get a prepaid one and use that instead.
That's the thing, I told them to completely disable my account last time it happened. I don't have doordash. Someone just managed to get my card and use it on doordash apparently. I don't use a debit card online often anymore.
Then this isn't an issue between you and Doordash. At all. This is an issue between you, the police, and your bank. Doordash will never call you back over this, they can't.
I gotta say, I love how everyone here has managed to give more reasons on why doordash can't do anything than the employees of doordash itself.
It's possible that we are all slightly smarter than the person who answers the phone at Doordash. I wouldn't bet money on it, but it's possible. It's also possible they we're telling you what they can't.