Not a legal suggestion, but you might want to reach out to a local rescue group and see if they can get some legit TNR started for these cats since it seems like this woman isn’t. If a colony is disrupting the neighborhood, there are ways to slowly encourage the cats to move away, as well as pulling any adoptable cats for find homes for them. Neutered cats will also fight less, stop spraying, and smell less.
I found out that she is part of the only local cat rescue group that TNR's in my area. My luck sucks. What are ways to encourage the cats to move away that you suggest? Even when neutered, cats defecating in my veggie garden and all over my yard is very unsanitary.
I’d reach out to that group and let them know what’s going on, because this person isn’t doing things properly. There are probably more cat rescuers in your area than you know - take a look on Facebook, see if you can find any area groups, they’d be more helpful in getting local people involved. You might also check out some general TNR groups for advice.
However, a big part of colony management is the humans. And if this person or their group isn’t doing that, I would try reaching out to a local humane society to see if they can step in and help, or reaching out to a national group like alley cat allies to see if they can point you in the right direction.
Getting them to move is a concerted effort - generally a rescue or the people doing TNR would work with the surrounding neighborhood - what other properties are there, who wouldn’t mind helping with the cats, are there any vacant properties or lots where the feeding could be moved to. Also takes into consideration if there are any cats they’ve been on the process of trapping that they don’t want to lose progress on, so you might start trying to move the food from area A to area B but keep feeding at area B until you trap that cat.
I’ve done a lot of trapping and rescue, and I’m sorry you’re dealing with all of this! I hope this helps on the cat side of things.
Two things for keeping cats out of your garden without hurting anyone: look up plants they don’t like, such as lavender. You can also mix up some cayenne pepper in a spray bottle of water and spray it around. Won’t hurt them, they don’t like it.
FYI: Some places this means the cats aren't technically "feral" anymore. They're your pets if you feed them long enough, which generally means they're supposed to stay on your property and not damage anyone else's, and they need to receive proper medical care. May be something to look into, when someone calls animal control and its clear the cats are in rough enough shape (because people who feed too many feral animals almost never bring them to the vet...) animal control can start taking them somewhere that someone will deal with them properly and fining the "owner" who will have to start actually taking care of them or stop creating health hazard for everyone else.