2. Depending on your location, you may be able to get a birth certificate from the Department of Vital Records if your mother had a notarized letter including certain information about your birth. An expired drivers license may be enough for the notary.
It does not matter what it allows or not. It won’t hurt anyway. Get your mom to write down the details now, and try to get the letter notarized (if you find a notary allowing to do so with an expired license), also take a copy or said license. Record a video of her reading this letter herself on camera, save it too.
Make her remember any names of WHO besides herself was even aware you existed and saw you when you were a baby, and is still alive. Record names.
3. If you have no education or medical history, and you're over 18, maybe get in touch with Social Services. You're going to need a caseworker.
Your situation is already bad, but it will be even worse if something happens to your mom before all this is sorted out.
Even if / after the birth certificate issue is sorted out. there may come times where you would need more evidence of your identity and that you were actually born in the US, or if any details regarding your birth certificate are questioned, etc.
we are waiting on an inherited IRA from my deceased grandmother with that we will have enough money for a lawyer so we can go through the court system to get our birth certificates but I no idea how long it will be, before that money comes in.
and she has a distrust of technology, as for anyone else who knows I am her child I have family that knows me but because of extenuating circumstances that could cause I and my mothers situation to worsen if my family were to find out about our situation over our birth certificates, as for my father he is deceased from what my mother has told me and I have no way of finding anyone on his side of the family either.
Do you know of your birth was registered at all (so it’s a matter of getting a certificate from department of vital statistics), or it’s possible you are not known to the state at all? Was she giving you a birth in the hospital, or it was a home birth?
from what she has told me I was born in a hospital but when I called vital statistics and gave them her name and my own they told me no such record existed I tried multiple different spellings of her name as well and still no such record came up, she's told me I was a C-section birth I've seen the C-section scar as well.
Title: Stuck in a catch 22 over my birth certificate and SSN because of my mother, I have no forms of identification and I have no idea how to obtain them.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.