In Anglo-Saxon England, the bounty for killing an outlaw was the same as for killing a wolf. By the late Middle Ages, this had evolved into the legal principle of wolfesheed: the outlaw was a wolf, able to be hunted and killed exactly like a wolf, legally and by any means. England wasn't the only place that so closely equated wolves with criminals: in the Norse sagas, murderers are Ulfr or wear wolf cloaks.
Although it is fairly common for cultures to equate criminals with dangerous animals, the link in medieval Europe between bandits and a type of animal particularly known for attacking travelers and traveling in packs is both strong and specific. Travel in the Middle Ages was dangerous business, and it wasn't just a case of humans versus animals and environment.
Overland medieval travelers faced several varieties of human threat. First--you might have noticed that university diplomas grant the holder the rights and privileges associated with the degree. Well, those rights and privileges , and the very first one--from twelfth century Germany, even before universities existed as such--was safe conduct for students and teachers traveling between schools or between home and school. The retinue of a lord whose land they were passing through, or a band from a city, had a very very nonzero chance of kidnapping travelers for ransom--whether they could come up with the money on their own, or whether a messenger had to be sent back to their family. (The struggle to reign in robber knights and lords is an important part of the medieval political narrative--it was.
It wasn't just people and their ransom that roadside robbers would be after. When attacking merchants' caravans, wine was a popular theft item--also copper, iron, cloth, basically anything that could be sold. Remember, in many or most cases, we're dealing with people well integrated into the socio-economic fabric of medieval society. This would in many cases continue to apply to the next grouping I'll discuss.
a slow and very hard-fought process). Timothy Reuter posits that noble/aristocratic robbers (including those more or less employed by them) were actually the primary danger in the Middle Ages versus "career bandits.".
Escorts are a trickier business to suss out of the sources. There are a few references to a ruler decreeing a soldier would accompany caravans between towns (especially in Italy), but in practice, this seems to have worked out symbolically far more than actually--almost a means of insurance, if cargo was stolen the merchant might be reimbursed for part of it. Italian bankers paid handsomely for military protection of their largest transports, especially if straight-up currency was involved.
There were also robbers and kidnappers from lower social classes who acted like they were legitimate groups or armies. In general, this type of banditry would rise out of a broader conflict or war, like a massive heterodox movement/suppression. The best example here is probably the bratczycy or "brothers" in fifteenth-century Hungary. They seem to have the veneer of--and claimed to be--Hussite armies but in reality were pretty much gangs of bandits. The wartime context of groups like these is key. Medieval banditry--murder, plunder, robbery, arson, rape--looked pretty much like what the average soldier did during war. More to the point, what the average soldier was expected to do and what was societally accepted as "what soldiers did." While making little difference to travelers, the attempt for a group to portray themselves as legitimate soldiers at war could matter for their own legal circumstances if caught.
And then, of course, there were indeed archetypal bandit gangs of vagabonds--maybe already outlaws where such a status existed. Feodor Glowaty's family/gang at the end of the 15C Poland lasted longer than most (about three years), so it's a good example of the sort of "career bandit" life as opposed to a one-time robbery or a landed robber-knight. Glowaty's group, which had about twenty members at its height, became most infamous for a massive robbery of the Rozgonyi estate, including making off with a large number of horses. They also engaged in attacks on merchant caravans and locals moving between village to village. And most famously, in 1493, they held an entire town for ransom as punishment for capturing and executing two of their members. Well, they tried to, at least. It's pretty clear the town didn't pay.
The city apparently did not make much of this threat. Being one of the biggest cities in the areas, Bardejov organized a mercenary unit to track the bandits, and the nearby Košice did the same. With more than 500 soldiers, not counting smaller units organized by local landowners looking after them, Glovaty's band had little chance and was eventually caught or dispersed. The leader himself has been caught and handed in the city of Trebišov in 1495.
The Polish term 'bratczycy' (cz. bratčici) indeed refers to the bandits operating in Hungary in the late 15th century, although you're completely right noticing that the word is obviously Slavic. Said bandits, sometimes called in contemporary Latin documents 'latrones Bohemi' (lit. 'Czech thieves' or 'Czech bandits') were operating in the area of Spisz (ger. Zeps, hun. Szepes), especially in the mountainous area between rivers Poprad, Dunajec and Hornad that is now a part of Slovakia, but in late 15th century belonged to Hungary and were also present in the areas of Orava and Podhale on the Polish side of the border.
It's tempting to say that over the course of the Middle Ages, the proportion of aristocrat/servant-robbers declined and the proportion of vagabond and/or outlaw and/or desperate robbers increased. Civic criminal records show that many thieves operated on a bare survival level rather than bigger heists, and it seems reasonable that their counterparts outside the town walls might have been in similarly desperate circumstances. The agonizing long-term reigning in of wayward lords, on the other hand, operated at different speeds and scales in different parts of Europe. And as the case of soldiers/claimed soldiers demonstrates, it's not a matter of "noble OR outlaw," but a sliding scale that likes to tip up and down at different times.
As far as protection, the most important thing to remember is that attack was by no means a guarantee. Travel increased exponentially over the course of the Middle Ages--both local and long distance. In other words--most of the time, it was successful, and that most of the time was enough to be worth the risk. That said, there were a couple of basic ways travelers could protect themselves. The first is probably the most obvious: travel in groups. When Ibn Battuta crossed North Africa on his way to Mecca, he was basically told, "Nope, you're waiting until the caravan goes this year, full stop.".
In case you're interested in the ransom letter, I'm adding an English translation. The original is written in the language that mostly resembles Polish from late 15th century (it can be understood with some difficulty by a modern Pole, Slovak or Czech) with several unusual words and spelling, suggesting either different ethnicity or simply the influence of Latin used in process of learning.
As a Hungarian, I was very surprised by your mention of "bratczycy", as it's definitely not hungarian, but sounds like something in a slavic language. After googling around a bit, I didn't find any trace of these guys, rather I found "bralczyk" which seems to mean the "hajdúk", who (if my high school history education serves me right) were originally armed shepherds (their name likely comes from "hajtó" = someone who propels/drives something forward, in this case the sheep). I was wondering if this band of bandits had any connection to the hajdú people, or if they were something else entirely. If not, could you expand on these bandits, or where I can read more about them? It seems like they have a fascinating story. The reply was a great read, by the way!
And, indeed, the final method of protection wasn't really protection at all. Jewish and Christian sources alike debate whether it is moral to just go ahead and buy back your stolen merchandise from the thieves.
It's also evident that travelers, perhaps especially merchant groups with valuable cargo, were often armed. Even at the sporadic times and places where weapon-carrying was regulated in medieval Europe, exceptions were frequently made for travelers.
Disguise was another popular method of attempted protection. By the late Middle Ages, pilgrims in medieval Europe had a distinctively coded style of dress. It might sound silly, but in fact, there are comparably few reports in sources of pilgrims being attacked--and a whole lot of complaining about not-pilgrims using pilgrim attire to conduct espionage, moneymaking business, or simply avoid payment of tolls at bridges and towns.
Overall, highway banditry was indeed a problem in the Middle Ages, particularly in the more lucrative high-traffic areas between nearby towns or around a city. The most risk, indeed, was carried not by long-distance travelers but by everyday business. And while homicides and robberies flare up in legal sources, a lot of bandit activity would basically have consisted of bribes or "paying for safe passage, wink wink." Scholars have also suggested that roadside crime increased over the course of the Middle Ages--laws against banditry become more common proportionally; inns and hostels spring up on the roadside to accommodate/protect travelers overnight. But this only makes sense. More people traveling more often and with more money--and more to the point, more reasons to have money.