The DA will decide if the evidence is enough to charge him with any crimes. If they decide that it does, then he will be arrested.
Your lawyer should be able to help you with an order of protection against him, which would make it VERY easy to arrest him if he continued to contact you or try to see you. Obviously it should go without saying that you should take every possible precaution in the meantime, such as not letting him learn where you're staying, etc.
I did file for a restraining order in March 2020. It kept getting reset due to Covid. I never received a notice in mail but in July court was on zoom and I didn’t attend. He didn’t either. I talked to my divorce lawyer and she said it was rewarded. Today I was calling around because my attorney has not done nothing for divorce. She filed the petition. That’s it. Now a year later not responding to none of my emails.
If he contacts you, ignore it. If he threatens you again, call the police and file another report. Documentation of his continued abuse will be vital to ensuring he is held accountable and cannot harm you moving forward.
So does that mean DA still deciding if the evidence is enough or is it enough now getting sent to a prosecutor?
I talk to a advocate that gave me info. She stated to double check if that restraining order is active. I called but left a message with the lady that file my restraining order (domestic violence center). Also was told to call the county district office to check on charges. (I thought I didn’t have to do anything further after I reported the incident) I called they said looks like your case was sent to the DA, and waiting for prosecutor...
You should have received a copy of the protective order, and he should have been served a copy by the cops or the sheriff. Your county court may have its records online. See if that's the case, then search those records for your name or his name. Protective orders require a judge to issue them, so there will be a court record if one was issued.
The entire legal system is moving slowly due to the pandemic, so a delay in this circumstance is not unusual. Again, keep yourself safe in the meantime and follow up on the restraining order as you were instructed to.