In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Obama made some headway in that area but the prisons are turning toward more open air stuff - monitoring programs. They're turning all of us and our surroundings into open air prisons.
The thing we need to get rid of are profit motives, period. Both in carceral systems and health care.
We no longer exist in that time however. And unless we could somehow recreate those conditions (I for one would hesitate to champion pre-mass migration America or medieval Anglo-Saxon England today), we have to work with the instruments we have now.
The U.S. won’t or can’t even invest in offering these things for the general, non-criminal population. Why on earth would they do it for the incarcerated?
There was a point in human history where lacking a police force was reasonable if not the only available option.
Of the people who need to be or are already locked up, not all will be permanently locked up until the day they die (or are murdered). They will eventually go free and need not only preparation for that but also prior rehabilitation. To those ends our prisons have to do a lot more in the way of resocializing and helping inmates help themselves.
I’d argue for changing the way we sentence people from how much time is ‘deserved’ alone (I don’t think that can be determined objectively unless it’s a life sentence) to take restorative justice into account.
If they aren’t rehabilitated by the end of their time, and we’ve really done everything possible with the best available methods, I would find extending their sentence reasonable.
As for those we judge to be irredeemable or to have committed irredeemable acts… depending on how loose or stringent that definition is I’m really not sure what can be done for them. Honestly, if they aren’t maintaining innocence I’d see this as the only legitimate angle to justify capital punishment.
Biden was always big on law and punishment so I doubt we'll see any substantial progress on the issue. Convicts were having a very hard time with covid in prisons and that didn't seem to bother this administration one iota.
Again, fixing this is achieved by prison reform, the option here that is much more likely to materialize.
This is factual. But acknowledgment of this is not exclusive to prison abolitionists nor does it counter legitimate use of incarceration.
Is this article arguing for or against abolishing prisons? Is this just rhetoric? This second half seems very contradictory to the entire premise here.
This is also factual. In the event authoritarians in power use it unjustly, it’s necessary to have safeguards and protections in place even when they hamper actual enforcement of the law. Hence why the FBI complaining about new user privacy encryptions because it “makes their jobs harder” is extremely suspicious behavior.
Grievances with the prison system suggests reforms that don’t require abolition, confinement has legitimate ground to stand on (specifically POWs, suicidal children, and mental patients).
These features inherent to imprisonment can be severed from non-essential features of existing prisons.
Prison officials don’t require absolute or arbitrary power, prisoners can’t be bought or sold (as they used to in convict leasing), and constitutional rights sometimes including voting are still free to be exercised.