You always have the right to change counsel. When you're in a contingent fee relationship that change can be complicated because generally speaking you have to pay the lawyer for the work he's performed on an hourly basis. This is likely covered in your retainer agreement.
Have you spoken with your attorney and expressed your concerns? That's certainly your next step. Changing attorneys is expensive in any case and perhaps insurmountably difficult here.
The consultation was likely free because of your income level, but under federal disability laws your lawyer is entitled to 25% of your backpay or $6,000.00, whatever is less. I'm not saying your lawyer isn't doing their job or not, but right now is the worst time to try to get medical records. Because of COVID lockdown protocols (like having limited staff or working from home) has caused an immense backlog of medical records requests. Almost all medical providers have a third party company do that for them. However, if you go request your records from your doctor, your doctor has to give you those records by law whereas that third party medical provider doesn't necessarily have to comply with a lawyers request in any given time period. So, it may just be an issue of getting the records the most practical way right now. I know clients think that's the lawyer's job and to an extent it is, but the client also has a role to play in the case. I send out dozens of medical requests every week. I can't necessarily maintain such stringent focus on obtaining every single medical document for one client to the point that it's the only thing I work on every day. If I ask them to bring me in whatever they have or to get something for me, it's because I need it and I can't get it or it's going to take me a much longer time to get it.
Having said that, if you want another attorney, you're free to get another one. But the fact that disability attorneys aren't chomping at the bit for your case (and the statutorily mandated contigency) may be indicative that you might not find another.
If you have gone to a hearing before ALJ and got a denial and are now at APPEALS COUNCIL then you really need to be speaking with your attorney because this is a HUGE step and switching attorneys at this level will be a big process because a lot of disability attorneys wont touch a case at this level.