Which is of course vague enough and make believe enough that Russia can say those conditions have/haven't be met whenever they want.
They just say it’s Ukrainian AA missiles, or that Ukrainians use civilians as a shield, or that Ukrainians destroy their own buildings to blame Russia, or that it’s photoshopped.
To this day they tell us Ukrainians shelled Donetsk for 8 years. However, more Russian troops died in the first months (even if we use just official numbers) than civilians they swore to protect in 8 years.
More civilians are killed in a single Russian attack, like the one on Dnipro today, than in Donbas in any of those 8 years.
Don't get it.. "the entire death count in Donbas over those 8 years" goes into thousands, as you say later. It cannot be less than "Russian soldiers die any single day"?
From the context, I hope it's clear that Russian-caused civilian deaths aren't what I want to count.
The statement is that Russia loses more of its own soldiers in a single day than Donbas lost from Ukrainian shellings in many years, which points out how absurd of an excuse "we're saving Russians" is for starting the war.
The same excuse they are bringing up today, implying that Ukraine ever posed a threat to Russia or Russian speakers.
The lion's share of those deaths happened in the first year of conflict, and it just so happened it went down to nearly zero once Russia (pardon me, the totally independent LNR/DNR forces lead by Strelkov/Girkin & co) paused its military advance.
The UN the civilian death toll from both sides in the 2016-2020 period to be about 320 people, and the total from 2014-2021 to be at 3,375 people, including nearly 300 MH-17 victims.
And at the same time heads of Donbass insurrection (Strelkov, Zakharchenko, Motorola) were all Russian citizens, born in Russia. That doesn’t ring any bells for them.
Yesterday I was told that “they just wanted to live with Russia, those pesky Ukrainians didn’t want that to happen”. At the same time they tell that it’s ok that Chechnya was shelled and had their cities wiped off for wanting to live separately from Russia.
The preconditions Russia set for negotiations have been satisfied by Ukraine today, on the account of it always fucking being the case.
The conditions they want are already satisfied. Negotiations about Russia getting the fuck out of Ukraine and paying reparations when, Pootie-poo?
Saying this as Ukrainian from Odesa whose first language is Russian and who presents no threat to Russia from the territory of Ukraine.
I'm glad they're back to 2014 gaslighting though, instead of coming up with something new that some helpful idiots in the West might actually believe.
Pro-RuZZian propaganda brought to you by the people who gave you "the more you buy, the more you save!" logic.