1) Why do they feel he should be responsible for half the lease? Is he on the lease or otherwise obligated to it? 2) contracts need consideration to be valid. Consideration is basically the thing that both parties get out of an agreement. If your friend is getting nothing out of the agreement, it probably doesn’t constitute a valid contract.
Okay, so he quite possibly has a legally binding oral contract without need for the written contract at all. The state is relevant, as a few states do require a written contract for tenancies over a year. If he’s not in one of those states, and his ex can prove that an oral agreement existed, his ex can possibly successfully sue him to recover the unpaid rent. Whether he was a valid sub tenant might matter.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
Consideration means that you must be given something of "legal value" in return for agreeing. "Legal value" means something with an assignable monetary value. For example, a house has legal value. Money has legal value (obviously). A peppercorn has legal value. Even a chocolate bar wrapper has legal value. But friendship does not have legal value. Relationships do not have legal value. Love does not have legal value.
Title: Need Advice on whether this Hand written contract is legally binding. If so what can be done?
You know what an offer is. "Acceptance" means you must agree to be bound by the contract, you must have the mental and legal capacity to enter into the contracts, and you entered into the contract knowingly by your own free will. So if someone tricks you into signing a contract after drugging you, that's not enforceable. If someone forces you to sign at gunpoint, that's also not enforceable. If you are declared insane ("incompetent") by a court, then contracts you sign are also probably not enforceable.