An easier solution is to take your own detailed photos and video of the rental before the walkthrough.
There’s not really anything you’re going to capture on video during the walkthrough that you can’t capture beforehand, avoiding a potentially contentious situation.
Maryland is a two-party consent state meaning you need the consent of everyone you’re capturing audio of if there’s an expectation of privacy. During a walkthrough there may exist this expectation of privacy, and if the landlord doesn’t consent to being recorded, it’s just going to escalate things, not make things go smoother.
I had a landlord once try to charge me for a bunch of damages I didn't do. What he didn't know was that I did my own walk thru before I moved anything in. And I had a printed newspaper that showed the date in the videos and pictures. When he tried to bill me and said all the pre-existing damage as caused by me, I was able to prove it wasn't me who did the damages.
As a bonus I will often find out what kind of person/firm I am dealing with. If they act like business as usual, then good. But reactions will vary. Also, there is no law or rule about having to delete the photos, especially not if you still have legal possession. Just prepared to load the up to the cloud immediately.
Get windows with and without window hangings. Any damage, even if it was there before you, get detailed, up close, photos.
As weird as it may sound, I'd recommend buying a print newspaper the day you take pictures or video. Show the date on the newspaper at the start and end of the video or have it present in photos.
What he said is exactly what you should always to and the newspaper trick in the pic to show dates is amazing tip always record before move in and before final walk thru after your stuff is moved out and make sure you can prove the dates of each video via a newspaper you buy the day of each video to verify dates and your covered 100%.
Literally the morning of all my walkthroughs I get there as early as I need to in order to do the walkthrough and to have them show up as I am usually finishing up. Also, do the recording with no sound and a avoid any two party arguments.
And it lets them know you won't be ran over. It is perfectly reasonable for you to keep image of what the place looked like when you left.