I'll give you an answer from a historical linguistic perspective, which hopefully is okay, considering your question is about language.
There is a false premise in your question, in that pre-colonial inhabitants of the Philippines spoke Old Malay. They didn't. Old Malay was spoken natively around the core area of modern Indonesia and Malaysia, from Borneo and even beyond in the east to Sumatra in the west (namely the Malay-dominated Srivijaya mandalas). Malays had superb navigational skills, and traded far and wide: I can't speak for archaeology, but there are traces of language contact with Malay from Madagascar all the way to Manila (and maybe beyond into Taiwan).
Malay was certainly known in parts of the Philippines that participated in maritime trade, but it was never widely spoken natively. Different languages were dominant in various parts of the Philippines: Ilokano in northern Luzon, Tagalog in Maynila Bay, Cebuano/Binisaya in Central Philippines, Tausug in the Sultanate of Sulu. These languages have retained their prominence to this day, and are still used as local lingua francas, although the influence of Filipino has increased greatly over the years.
I think you may be confusing Old Malay with Proto-Malayo-Polynesian. Old Malay would be a language of the Malayic group, spoken in Borneo or perhaps other areas of insular SE Asia after migration from Borneo. The first Malay-speaking city-states in Sumatra appear in the 7th century CE, a mark of Malay naval dominance in SE Asia.
On the other hand, Proto-Malayo-Polynesian (PMP) was spoken by Austronesian peoples who migrated from Taiwan to Northern Luzon around 4000-4500 years ago. That stage is likely the lowest common ancestor of all Philippine languages: there have been attempts to put all Philippine languages in a subgroup, but they are very controversial and most definitely not the majority view. At around that time, PMP speakers invented the awesomeness that was the outrigger (essentially a log tied to a boat that keeps it from overturning at sea), and used their supreme naval skills to colonize most of insular SE Asia in short order.
tl;dr Old Malay has never been spoken natively in the Philippines. Filipinos tend to speak local lingua francas and/or Filipino, because it's always been this way (minus the national language).
So why Tagalog then? There may be different views why it was picked over, say, Cebuano, but the gist of it is due to the influence of the Maynila Bay on maritime trade (and perhaps also political influence as an aftermath of colonialism). It is important to note that Tagalog was far from unknown outside of its immediate area of influence: we can find old Tagalog loanwords in Tausug, at the southernmost end of the Philippines, so it's not like it was completely unheard of before becoming the basis for the national language.
probably the influence in tagalog stems back to Aguinaldo's establishment of a central government, which is located in Cavite a Tagalog speaking province.
Ok, so the problem with Tagalog influence in Tausug is that it's very difficult to prove that it's from Tagalog and not another language. The way we identify loanwords in languages is by looking at regular sound correspondences and finding exceptions. We then look for the same form as the exception in languages that have had contact with the one we're studying.
There's a presentation on this at the upcoming SEALS-30 conference in Hawaii, but I'm not sure if anything has been published yet. People have mostly looked at Malay loanwords in Tausug, seeing as the Sulu archipelago is geographically close to Borneo, and also Tausug speakers tend to be Muslim. I can check with the presenter and report back if you want.
The Tausug form has an irregular reflex of PMP \z. We would expect the Tausug word to look something like \\udan^1, but instead we get ulan, the same form as in Tagalog. The difficulty here is proving that the word indeed comes from Tagalog, and not another language with the same form. That part is still in the works, I am told. Additionally, 'rain' is a , and for basic vocabulary to be borrowed, contact has to be quite intense.
To give an example from Tausug, the regular reflex of PMP \z in word-medial position is /d/ in Tausug, /l/ in Tagalog, and /j/ in Malay. This makes it a great sound to check for loans: if we get an /l/ or a /j/ or any other consonant except /d/ as a reflex of \z in this position, then there's a good chance that it's a loan. So if we look at the word for 'rain' in the three languages plus PMP we see the following:
Basically, linguistic contact between Tagalog and Tausug in pre-colonial times is possible, but not yet proven at this time.
One possible period for contact between Tagalog and Tausug was in the era immediately before Spanish rule. There were contacts then between the Manila Bay area and Brunei and there were certainly Muslims among the Tagalogs including some chieftains.
Also R. David Zorc mentioned the possibility that there were linkages between Tagalog and Tausug though he was, in my understanding, referring to an earlier time when the various Central Philippine languages had not quite fully separated yet: .
Is there a particular reason why this is considered a sign of pre-colonial contact and not 20th century Tagalog influence in Tausug? Is the word ulan already present in the oldest Tausug dictionaries (if they ever existed)?
I'm no expert on Tausug, but if it were a very recent loan, we would normally expect the original term to be retained, with a slightly altered meaning. As far as I know, this isn't the case, and it's the only way to say "rain" in the language, but again, I'm not familiar with it.