The enclaves in Andalusia were in some way distinct and separate from larger Phoenician "settlments" in the area. The largest concentration of Phoenicians in Iberia at this time, we think, was at Gadir, modern Cadiz. Unfortunately virtually no archaeological investigation of this time period has happened at Cadiz, since there is a big modern city on top of the site. The site at might be associated with ancient Gadir, however, and is very near by.
Yes, the Phoenicians began arriving in small numbers to Iberia in the 9th (or more probably) 8th century BCE. They established what seem to have been small "trading" enclaves, or emporia, especially along the Costa del Sol / Andalusia. There are several sites, such as those at or . The enclaves tend to be at the coast, typically at the mouth of a waterway (good harbor) or on a small island some distance off-shore. They are active from about 750 to about 680 (roughly the Late Geometric period back in mainland Greece and the first horizon of Greek westward expansion as well), when nearly all of them are abandoned. The evidence suggests that the Phoenicians were there to interact and "trade" with the native Celt-Iberians. I say "trade" because these were likely not commercial transactions, but instead unequal exchanges of reciprocity between the Phoenician agents and the local elite. The Phoenicians were seeking raw materials, especially metals, from the resource-rich interior of Iberia. They offered in exchange exotic finished goods, like red-slip ceramic and Greek fineware, jewelry, Egyptian faience, et cetera.
These sites were essentially unknown until the 1960s, when there was a sort of Renaissance of scholarship on the Phoenicians. Before that time, they had always taken a very quiet back seat to Greek, Roman, Egyptian, Babylonian, etc. Since that time, through a lot of excavation, survey work, and pottery study, we have been able to establish relatively secure methods for dating material from these 8th-century Phoenician sites. Much of the work has been by German and Dutch teams.
Good question, tough to answer. These sites were very very very small. They were little more than stop-overs. Many of them have a distinctive building divided into three long rectangles. Most people (and myself) think they were warehouses. Some have limited evidence of dry-docks. And they seem to be spaced out about one day's travel by sea from one another. I do not think they were meant to be "settlements" with families and kids and farms and that sort of thing. They were meant to be outposts for safe harbor and perhaps resupply, and places where agents/merchants could interact with the locals but also be protected from attack. Most modern scholarship talks about them in terms of a "port of trade" or emporia, which is a modern economic term for this type of place. They are compared to similar emporia by the Portuguese (for example) many centuries later.
Other large Phoenician "cities" of this time period were on Sardinia, on the western end of Sicily (at Motya), and of course at the tip of Tunisia at Carthage, the latter of which seemed to, at some point, take over as a sort of central hub of western Phoenician operations. When the Neo-Assyrians reconquered the Phoenician metropoleis back home, Carthage stepped into the role as the default hegemon, either militarily or economically or both, and developed as such from the sixth century on down to the period of their contact with the Romans and ultimate downfall.
Going back to the Ancient Phoenicians, how do anthropologists decide that "a 100lbs of silver in exchange for one lion-head aryballos" is an unequal exchange and which party do they think got the better of the deal? How do they estimate what the equal value would be? What if the exchange was grain for olive oil, would that change the anthropologist's judgement?
You ask the difference between a basic commercial transaction and an unequal reciprocal exchange. This comes from anthropological study, especially from such arrangements in more modern times, like between the Portuguese and indigenous populations, or the British, or the Colonial Americans, etc. In the 1960s, Karl Polanyi famously worked on this theory, calling them "ports of trade" and emporia. (That's Journal of Economic History 23.1 [1963]). It is, then, a comparative method of trying to understand the methods and interactions between two groups separated by culture, technology, and distance. It also draws heavily on the (mainly French) theories of reciprocal gift-giving between parties and the parameters of unequal exchange (ie 100lbs of silver in exchange for one exquisitely painted Early Protocorinthian lion-head aryballos--the two are not equal in modern economic reckoning, but their values are relative to the giver and the receiver, geography, availability, perceived differences in prestige of the parties, etc).
Thank you for the description of the trade settlements, it was so well done that I'm visualising the settlements now (probably I've gotten like a million details wrong, but the big picture makes sense to me).
That's very interesting about classifying exchanges differently based on the differences in values to the giver and the receiver. I've got a degree in economics, and economists would tend to say "well if that's the price it sold at, then that's what it's worth." If I was calculating a Phoenician GDP in lbs of silver, the aryballos would go into the calculation at 100 lbs. What would cause a rethink is if there's some evidence that it wasn't really an exchange, e.g. if it was a tax avoidance scheme.