Percentages and partnership? No, unless you are joining a proven company, or at least someone that you are 100% dead sure has a product that is going to sell. For someone coming in with "I've got a great idea!" you charge either hourly or a flat fee.
Can I legally produce it and sell it myself? Can I just pay them loyalty fees for every product sold?
Personal funding - never sink your own money into a "project" like this. The person who's paying you also needs to front all the money that needs to be spent.
I have the design work, and I can gather up the money to produce, the NDA is pretty vague to be honest.
No patent - this needs to be established up front but the honest truth is that this clause means that you will almost never be brought on as a designer. I don't want to get into "right" or "wrong" but it's a near-zero chance that you will ever get paid to develop anything if you are going to demand that your work be open-source. This is a bigger issue that you are going to have to resolve within your own career, but for the purpose of contracts - if you feel this morally strongly about it, it needs to be in your contracts up front.
Ownership of the product - this is also something that you need to hammer out and just like the patent, it's going to be very rare that you retain ownership of a project developed like this. But that's sort of the point - you don't want to be personally invested and responsible for these "I have a great idea!" type of projects. But the flipside of that is that the work is not yours to keep or control.
Another question I might add, what is a fair percentage for executing someone's "I have an idea"? I know I won't do it in the future, but for now if I can manage to negotiate the terms with them... what should negotiate my percentage to be?
I understand that my clause of open source isn't easy to sell, but from a business point of view I am okay with that, I have my full time well paying job and I am still trying to get that open source.
You negotiate for "My hourly rate is $125 per hour with [X] minimum hours, [Y] travel consideration, [Z] for [extra fees]....." I suppose if you wanted to negotiate a percentage on top of that you could, something like 15-20% and a certain share in the company, but you never just go with a percentage when the only thing they're bringing to the table is an idea.