Until the ink is dry, you haven't agreed to anything. It's inappropriate for anyone to be demanding money before you've negotiated around and agreed on the final contracts. I think your instincts here are sound - Amy is being extremely pushy, and she's included someone in the deal that she didn't tell you about and that you don't trust. If she felt comfortable concealing this from you, that speaks poorly of her judgment and of the future of this deal.
You don't owe her an explanation. You don't even owe her notice that you're backing out. You could walk away from this freely at this point. It would be polite to send her a brief "thanks for your time, but I'm no longer interested" note, but that's good manners, not law.
This is exactly how I feel, I just want to make sure there isn't any legal repercussions because her and Brad ALLEGEDLY have already partly paid for the preconstruction fee while Mike and I are BOTH VERY concerned about how this is all being managed. Thanks for your informative response!
To be clear, the important thing here is not really the existence of paperwork - it's that the final terms of the deal were never agreed upon. She's made up a document - or had a lawyer make one up - but it's just an offer until you actually act in acceptance of it. Your prior communication towards this deal doesn't automatically bind you to the final thing with no opportunity to review or reject the offer once it arrives.
If Amy and Brad started spending money in expectation of this deal coming through before everyone had signed on the dotted line, that's on them. They might be unhappy that you back out, but without a firm agreement in place, there's nothing they can do about it beyond not do business with you - something you're already deciding for them.
You've explained this so clearly and concisely, I can see why you're a quality contributor. I'll spend an hour drafting a email as a courtesy, thanks!
What Amy did is an offence under s. 18 the _Corporations Act_. She completed an application to incorporate which had names other than the names of the applicants on it. The offence is quite minor - it's a $200 fine at most - but it's still an offence. One of the consequences of this is that it's possible your lawyer will help you work with the province to wind up the company and reverse the registration, without Amy's involvement or any further agreements on your part.
Hey /u/Derspiny, Amy messaged me saying she registered my name into the corporation without my prior approval and now she needs me to sign resolution letters to remove my name from it. Should I take these forms to a lawyer to review them to ensure there is no dangerous fine print to it?