First, few medieval girls got married so young. Later data, when we have better surviving baptism and marriage records to compare, suggests that rural women did get married younger than urban women, but late teens or early twenties might be more likely. (For England, Judith Bennett posits that most rural women and men would be married by their early twenties, but this number is "suggestive, not determinative.").
Second, not all women (who did not go into religious life) got married! Once again, this decision is more associated with women in towns or cities than villages--scholars have estimated anywhere from 10% to 25% of urban women were single. Scattered surviving records (mostly from 14C onward) show that among wealthier peasants, it was not entirely unusual for teenage boys and girls to inherit some property and/or start earning income even before marriage.
Third, in the 13th century, immigration to towns was becoming more of an option. Obviously this made up a tiny portion of the population, but it was significant enough to keep towns growing despite them being what we call a "population sink." (More people native to the city dying every year than were born there).
We know that a lot of young women and men who did move, did so at least in part to earn either dowries or a sum to help set up a household.
Another benefit here might be a larger pool of potential spouses, but perhaps not. For people working as servants or apprentices, employers often tried (note: tried) to have some say over employees' marriages.
I'm not entirely sure what that situation says about excitement over marriage, but it does suggest people who knew they were going to get married trying to exercise control over the situation to have a more positive experience.
Fourth, in the 13th century, religious life (including single/of chastity) was also becoming more of an option for women outside the richer classes, although immigration to a city would probably be a factor. In general, we think of these women as "beguines," although that's more of an informal term at this point in time.
The draw of this informal religious life to some urban women and girls suggests it also existed among rural women and girls, at least to some degree. They probably had less access to the preaching and teaching that might help inspire such goals.
They did not live in a formal monastery or take the permanent vows of nuns, but they did pledge themselves to lives of chastity and charity. (Although it was also possible to leave the beguine life and get married.).
Fifth, there is the family situation. Scholars have often framed marriage for women as moving from the authority of the father to the authority of the husband. Obviously there are a lot of individual factors in play here.
I was curious, so I looked up your username to find the writing. That's a beautiful quote. Do you mind expanding a little on the background of the writer and the quote?
We don't know a lot (or anything, really) about Mechthild of Magdeburg, its author, before the last few years of her life. She was an independent religious woman in northern Germany (thus dubbed a beguine by later writers; she may or may not have thought of herself as one) whose writing suggests she was engaged in charity work as well as devotion to God and an unmarried/chaste life. She was probably born around 1210.
She also gained enough of a reputation that, for the last years of her life, she was invited to retire to the women's convent at Helfta. Helfta was not only a prestigious and famous convent, but at the time, the home of Mechthild of Hackeborn and Gertrude of Helfta (Gertrude the Great)--two more medieval women visionary authors.
This couplet, which is Mechthild addressing God, comes from one of the poems in a book/collection of poems, theology, visions, mystical encounters with God, and other wonderfully medieval writing called The Flowing Light of the Godhead.
According to FLG, she experienced what medieval people called a conversion--not to Christianity, but to a higher religious lifestyle--and her first visions from God when she was 12. Reports of visions are not at all unusual from the later Middle Ages, especially among women. Mechthild's are (in my opinion) some of the most beautiful.