Nobody is going to get out a ruler and measure how far above the knees your skirts are. Both of yours seem pretty close. As someone who's had to do some dress code policing herself, these are borderline, and they do have a "miniskirt" look to them, especially the second one.
The obvious path of least resistance here is to buy a couple of inexpensive skirts in neutral colors that go to the top of your knee to wear to work, and save your other skirts for your free time.
I agree that if someone who works for me wore that to work, we'd be having a sit-down about the dress code and professionalism and asked not to wear it to work again.
I was singled out because I wore a dress instead of pants. Other girls were wearing dresses but I was the only one sent home and told I was distracting the boys. She said I was sent home because I was a distraction to the male students.
Ok, so this is clearly not a gender discrimination issue since women as a whole were not being targeted. Rather, this did seem to be an issue with your particular outfit and not women wearing dresses/skirts in general.
You were singled out because of your particular outfit choices and your employer's opinion that they did not conform to the dress code. You were not singled out because you were a woman who wore a skirt as other women who chose to wear dresses/skirts that better conformed to the dress code had no issue.
They were inartfully saying that your dress was unprofessional, and you didn't really take the hint they were giving you.
If they don't meet the dress code and your old boss let it slide, and the new boss doesn't, then the new boss is more strict.
But the new boss is allowed to be more strict, provided that the standards are the same and are clearly spelled out.
Edit: There's nothing is the dress code or handbook that states I am required to wear pants. The owner of my center herself has given the okay on both outfits previously before this lady was hired.
Nothing is missing. I was singled out because I wore a dress instead of pants. Other girls were wearing dresses but I was the only one sent home and told I was distracting the boys.