/u/Commustar is correct in noting that these are the equites, although by the time the equites can be called a "class"--what Cicero calls to as the ordo equester--they no longer had really anything to do with the public or private horse. However, something to note is that while Marx's argument that political conflict throughout history has been class conflict has been extremely influential not just in political philosophy but also on historians, who use Marxist theory as the basis for doing things like social history, Marx's actual understanding of historical class conflict is.
Wow this is really impressive i always assumed that Marx would have been as good researching history as he was researching philosophy. This is truly interesting and undeniably is something to really keep in mind when reading his work. I have to say that even if he failed at giving an example of class struggle for an ancient society, i think there actually was class struggle between a ruling class and an oppressed one only that Marx couldn't recognize which was which. I would like a lot to read your thoughts on these if you have any.
That may be so, but I think this misses the point. For one thing, . Marx was criticized by contemporaries precisely for the reason that his thought was predicated on historical conditions but that his understanding of these conditions was often insufficient. Later Marxist thinkers, and Marx himself, wrangled with this problem of grounding historical materialism and historical class struggle with "good" history. And that's the point. It serves no purpose to judge Marx for not knowing what he could not have known, and it's not useful to condemn Marx personally for making mistakes that he should have known he was making. Rather, the point is that the use of historical evidence and the underpinning of Marxist theory with the historical conditions of class struggle are things that evolved with Marxist thought over time. The Manifesto makes the tremendously important argument that political conflict is class conflict and that these can be explained by material causes, but the evidence that Marx actually uses doesn't really work fully. It took later writings, some of them by Marx and some by later Marxist thinkers, to develop the argument further, with evidence that demonstrated it better. The theory was raised in the Manifesto, but the actual argument was not fully developed until later, and to understand the argument and how it works we can't just take the Manifesto and be done with it, because Marxist thinkers themselves realized that the argument there was incomplete.