The principle of fortification has not altered, which is to deny access or progress through a given area. Fortifications, particularly prepared sites like Verdun are cost and labour intensive at the front end, but if done well, during war it can be quite economical in that far fewer men can command the ground. The main problem is that these works are static, and rely upon the enemy choosing to confront them. So much easier to find another avenue of approach, which is the gist of the Schlieffen Plan, the German button-hole to the right, through Belgium and into France, thus avoiding the difficult terrain and extant fortifications along the French/German frontier.
Now, here's a lesson in itself: While Germany had no bones about forcing their way through Belgium, they did ask nicely at first. Realistically, all Germany had to do was contain Belgian forces while maintaining Their advancing drive into France. They want Paris in six weeks, so they haven't come to subdue Belgium at the cost of time. The Belgian forts were invested but whether or not they fell was immaterial, the smart idea is to bypass impassable objects whenever practicable.
These mass fortifications offer little more than a deterrent for advancing on a particular axis, and comfort to vulnerable populations along contested borders. So the question then persists as to why choose to assault Verdun. It's a dangerous prospect. The firing positions OP mentions are mutually supporting; meaning that the fields of fire for the forward position interlock, concentrating shells and bullets at places deliberately built to channel an attacking force. The entire chain of fortifications is covered by artillery in depth to the rear, well wired along the front. The purpose was not, ostensibly, to take Verdun. Putting pressure on it was hoped to (and did) draw more and more French units from elsewhere on the Western Front in order to prevent its fall or to re-take portions in German hands. German Chief of General Staff, von Falkenhayn wanted to "," his goal was to tie up and eliminate French manpower in a battle he estimated the French couldn't bear to lose, Verdun having a revered history to France.
I can not quite comprehend the logic of tying up the French by attacking Verdun. If the fortification is a force multiplier for the defender, then surely the attacker would have to commit more troops than the defender in order to pose a credible threat. Why is it still an attractive proposition for the Germans?
Attacking Verdun was an attractive proposition in 1916 as a consequence of Verdun having been bypassed as an unattractive target in 1914. German advances early in the war had avoided attacking Verdun's fortifications directly. The axis of the main thrust through Belgium into France passed North and East of Verdun, with Verdun at the "hinge" between the two German wings. Germany also launched smaller offensives on the other wing in 1914 (the original frontier between France and Germany), one of which captured a salient just South of Verdun at St. Michel. See of the 1914 offensives and of the 1915-1916 front.
The defensive phase of operations is properly a means to an end. The idea is to position one's forces in such a way as to be able to repulse the enemy long enough to bring overwhelming force against the enemy. It is a play against time, and is enacted on all scales of organisation from small patrols covering each other to entire armies arrayed in a network of entrenchments and fortifications. Breaking through is always best done via the path of least resistance, no one would invest a fortification if it could be gotten 'round. Falkenhayn was creating a path of least resistance by tying up so much French manpower in one area. He didn't need to capture Verdun, and it worked better for him the longer the French resisted. Plus, there was always a chance (and this remains speculative), that the French would drive themselves to destruction and sue for peace, with the knock on effect of having the British evacuate the continent. In this case, we wind up not having history repeat itself, but work in the direction of original intent. The Battle of France in 1940 demonstrated that by maneuver and speed, frontier fortifications could be bypassed entirely and the enemy engaged in the open.
On the second map, note that Verdun is surrounded on three sides by German-held territory. This left Verdun awkward for France to defend and convenient to attack for two reasons.
First, Germany was able to position heavy artillery around Verdun's defenses and bombard it from multiple angles, and to launch multiple assaults all around Verdun that would converge and support one another.
The fortifications themselves posed less of an obstacle than one might suppose precisely because of that concentration of heavy artillery: in the lead-up to the war, Germany had invested in very large railroad guns (artillery so large it could only be moved effectively on railroads, not towed by horses or trucks like conventional artillery) specifically designed to neutralize French and Belgian border forts. The forts still had some defensive value, as it took time to position the guns and reduce the forts, but the value was more in delaying a mobile offensive than in holding a static position indefinitely.
Second, the German-held territory around Verdun cut off Verdun from the French rail network and only left one good road (which would become known as the Voice Sacrée, or Sacred Way, due to its crucial role in the Battle) open for France to bring in significant quantities of supplies and reinforcements. Railroad logistics were vital in WWI (as in most wars in industrialized countries in the late 19th and early 20th centuries) because of the extreme difficulty of supplying a large army with food and ammunition by other means. Water transport relies on sticking close to a coast or navigable river. Animal-drawn carts are slow, and they only have a radius of about 50 miles from a supply depot before 100% of your cart needs to be filled with feed and fodder for your cart horses. Trucks were available in 1916 (and vital to the defense of Verdun), but they were limited in capability and generally had to contend with mechanical failures (early trucks were hideously unreliable by modern standards) and bad roads. And as mentioned previously, the heaviest artillery pieces (apart from static guns already emplaced in the forts) could only be moved effectively by rail.
The net result is that despite the advantage of the forts, Germany was able to gain a substantial advantage in heavy artillery and assault in favorable positions, while France required desperate and heroic logistical efforts merely to keep their troops fed, supplied, and reinforced.
Another likely factor is that the French army believed they could successfully defend Verdun. Even with Germany's advantageous position at Verdun, the operational defensive had enormous advantages in WWI, and Verdun's forts, while not decisive, were still an advantage to the French defenders.
And in addition to the morale advantages of holding Verdun, holding the salient prevented Germany from shortening at France's expense (freeing armies for action elsewhere) and denied Germany the use of roads and rail lines that ran through Verdun.
As for why they didn't, I don't know for sure, but I suspect it's a combination of morale and strategic reasons. Germany could retreat in 1917 with little morale impact because the Hindenburg Line was still on French soil, but to surrender Verdun in 1916 would have been for France to abandon another French city to a foreign invader and to do so without a serious fight. Verdun wasn't a particularly large or economically important city at the time, but it's historical significance is often mentioned as a reason the French felt inclined to defend it so intensely. And far from wanting to yield more territory to Germany, France had launched major offenses at Artois and Champagne in 1915 in hopes of liberating some of the territory Germany has already occupied.