For that matter, why are we even using this website? I've never heard of "News Times UK" before, and clicking the link on mobile gave my phone cancer. Tons of popups, redirects, and scam warning messages. I'd ask OP how they even stumbled across this article on such a scammy, no-name website, but they appear to just be a bot themselves. So we have AI writing articles to scam people with shady ads, and we have a bot sharing it on Reddit.
Edit: It looks like OP is an extremely active bot, posting tons of stories every single day. And they are pretty much all related to Ukraine and Russia. Not sure if this is some official propaganda machine or just someone trying to cash in on the easy attention they will get from such a popular topic.
Also before everyone chimes in with assassination jokes, I genuinely think this is a suicide. The western military district has gone from being the pride of Russia to getting demolished in multiple occasions. Russia has been working everyone overtime to try and essentially rebuild it in Belarus. Seeing a low level official commit suicide isn’t that crazy of an outcome.
this is an example of my day, the names and places are fictional, and any likeness to my real code reviewers is just coincidence.
I don't know Russian but it could be there's a gender neutral word for the Second Person perspective that has been lost in translation...?
It's a form letter and now someone is going to have to go in to the project management system to create a new work order, and Jeff's going to get it because he's the new guy. He'll have to add a combobox next to the edit box where they enter the name, come up with a new letter, save it as suicidedOfficialFemale.xml, rename suicidedOfficial.xml to suicidedOfficialMale.xml, and find all occurrences of suicidedOfficial.xml in the repo, put a condition on it to determine the correct selected sex, and commit the changes to code review after testing. Of course, all changed code must be brought up to the latest source code formatting standards, including naming conventions in the front and backend units and components that have been modified. Of course the code reviewers can't ever agree, and Jeff will likely follow the rules exactly as his last review, but Tara is the reviewer, and she's a pain in the ass about Hungarian notation...so it'll bounce back and forth until she's happy and Jeff's had to rewrite 90% of the legacy code which didn't need changed. Testing will find Jeff's new code doesn't populate a field in their unit tests, because Jeff "forgot" to update those too because it's new and not in the workflow documentation. So, maybe it'll produce the right sex form by June? August at the latest...
It’s a horrific source. Let’s also not forget that the “top defense official” is literally on the finance team of the western military district. This is equivalent to a manager on Apple’s finance team in charge of Apple Pay. It’s not exactly Tim Cook taking the swan dive.