NAL but long time university administrator including more than a dozen years as university provost. You’re getting a lot of good advice here. I’ll just add a few details.
Third, work with your advisor on an independent study. We never want to unduly delay a student’s graduation. There may be some reluctance but push this.
Second, in your senior year you apply to graduate with the Office of the Registrar. They will provide you with a degree verification that details exactly what courses you need to take to graduate. It locks in the university and you. There will be no more surprises. Do this.
all of this. I took my last Spanish class ( required for my non-Spanish degree) online my last semester . This was in the online stone age of 2010. The lessons were PowerPoints and all loaded so you could work ahead but the quizzes/tests only dropped on certain days.
Four, degree requirements are published in the university catalog and can change from year to year. You can graduate under any catalog published during your matriculation at the university. There is a remote chance that the course wasn’t required at some point and that you can graduate under that catalog. If you go this route, work with the Registrar’ Office and make sure you’re right before you do it. Trust me when I say that your advisor and people in the Registrar’ Office want to help you and to help you graduate.
Last, escalate the issue of tuition and fees for this course to your university’s chief academic officer. That person will carry a VP title or might be called provost. Deans have fancy titles but are middle managers without the authority to waive tuition and fees. The provost can. I always waived tuition and fees when a faculty advisor made a mistake like this one.
Yeah I wouldn’t write off a lawyer automatically either. I’d try to work with the administration first to find a solution but if that doesn’t pan out a lawyer could really help.
Having been subpoenaed in multiple civil suits relating to various student issues from requiring credit to graduate to why they failed this course or that (only one of which actually went to trial that I know of, but some others seemed pretty close), a lawyer absolutely can help if the administration decides to be a bunch of dicks. There are contractual obligations that are involved in the relationship between the student and the institution, and having a trained advocate to navigate those (because yes, policies and procedures are bound by laws) can grease some serious wheels.
It sounds like there might be a Promissory Estoppel issue where you reasonably relied upon the assurances of the school (the advisor) to your detriment. A lawsuit probably couldn’t force the school to allow you to graduate, but they might be on the hook for all additional costs you incurred associated with relying on the promise made by the school/advisor. If the school doesn’t want to be on the hook for that large sum of money (potentially), they might waive.