The standard for modifying the custody order is "what is in the best interest of the child?". Moving away from the other parent , even if not fully engaged, is a net negative. So there needs to be a corresponding positive element (FOR THE CHILD) to make up for it. Your mental health is not a direct benefit to the child, nor is a higher paying job. Being closer to your family and improving the child's relationship with them could be; although not as strong as impairing the relationship with the other parent.
It's obviously best if you discuss the move with mom and she consents. Typically this is accomplished by the parent moving away agreeing to bear the burden of transporting the child to and from the agreed upon visitations.
As far as where I'd be moving to, I have family in Virginia and Massachusetts. Either one would make it pretty challenging for frequent visits.
How frequently is mom seeing the child now? You say she does spend time with the child, but only when it is "convenient" for her. With the child entering school soon, do you think she would want to be regularly involved with schooling and such, helping with homework, etc? Or do you think she's going to want to be more of a "holiday parent" and naturally back off further except when the child is on breaks?
Because if you think she's going to prefer being a "holiday parent" as soon as the child is in school and will have commitments throughout the school year that make parenting less flexible for her and less "fun", you could offer her that schedule instead. VA is a short flight from GA and technically drivable, especially if you're meeting her somewhere in the middle. While it wouldn't work for frequent visitation, it could work for a block during the summer, spring break, and winter holidays.
If you think there's a chance she'd accept a block holiday arrangement once you lay out to her how things are going to be once the child starts school, talk to a family lawyer about drawing one up to present to her and see if she'll bite. She just might.
Thanks so much for this! She's definitely the "fun parent" and wouldn't have interest in participating in schooling decisions, etc.
She has court-ordered visitation? And to be clear, you are primary, but are you only custodian or is it shared custody? Joint legal custody is the norm in GA for example.