If you're asking, was this usual practice — no. It was decidedly not. There were no other Japanese targets spared, to my knowledge, on this rationale. (It is also worth noting that Stimson's own rationale changed depending on who he was talking to — it is clear that this was not something built up out of pure logic and reason, but something Stimson felt he had to do, and he adapted logic and reason to this purpose.) It was highly anomalous and Stimson had to fight very hard for it; even after his initial announcement that he was the "kingpin" on this question, Groves and the military challenged his authority on this and kept pushing for keeping Kyoto on the list, at least as a backup. They did extensive planning on the military value of Kyoto (which they did not do for Hiroshima, Kokura, Niigata, or Nagasaki) with the aim of having bureaucratic "ammunition" for pursuing it as a target. The Secretary of War, it should be noted, did not have any real authority when it came to tactical operations during the war, and was not involved in other targeting questions (and could not stop the firebombing of cities, as he attempted to); the modern office of the Secretary of Defense, who is much more involved in such things, did not really evolve those functions until the McNamara era.
It is my own theory (which I have ) that Truman was confused by this conversation as to the nature of Hiroshima as a target, and did not realize it was a city with a military base in it, as opposed to a "purely" military target, as he would at times refer to it prior to seeing damage assessments. You can read my paper if you want some insight into the consequences of that misconception, as well as the evidence for my argument.
In any event, the decision to take Kyoto off of the target list was _not_ business as usual. In fact, it was so anomalous — the only time, as Groves put it, that the Secretary of War "interfered" with such matters — that I think it deserves a lot more attention and study than it has been given... hence my article on it! ).
So cool to see you around here! For those who may not know, Alex Wellerstein (who wrote this answer) is one of the foremost experts on the history of nuclear technology, and probably one of the most qualified people on the planet to answer this question.
This is why Stimson had to go to Truman directly to get the authority for this, to make sure Kyoto was spared. This is, it should be noted, the only "decision" about the atomic bombings Truman was actually very personally involved in — he agreed with Stimson that Hiroshima, and not Kyoto, should be the target of the atomic bomb, and Stimson used that agreement to finally shut down Groves definitively (which is exactly when Nagasaki was added to the target list as a replacement "back up" target near the new primary targets of Hiroshima and Kokura). The arguments that Stimson used were that Kyoto was essentially a civilian target and Hiroshima was a military one (a questionable distinction; both had military aspects, both had civilian aspects), and that it would be important for the postwar governance of Japan by the United States to not unduly alienate them.
I am not sure it's possible to know this, but I do think that Truman's overall experience of the atomic bombings was one of not being completely in control, and the fact that he doesn't seem to have known much about the targets, AND the fact that he didn't seem to know a second bomb would be used so quickly, seems to have played a big role in his later fear about military control of the bomb.
From what I've heard, Truman was not as scientifically educated as FDR's previous vice-president. So could it have been when he said "drop the bomb on a purely military target," that he might just not have known how destructive the bombs would be?