You were arrested under suspicion of DUI. If your results come back negative, you will be released and no charges will be filed. Therefore, you will not have any measurable damages that you would be entitled for compensation against.
You won't be able to file any lawsuit over this. The officer's actions were reasonable based on what he knew at the time.
Police are not medically trained. They don't have the expertise to reliably distinguish between a medical issue, a psychological issue, and a substance intoxication.
I don't have and definitive proof of this but it would explain why he didn't even ask me for my insurance and registration. He just asked for my license then pulled me out of the car for the DUI test. At the station the cops got very defensive when I would ask questions like "so how long can you charge someone with DUI after they smoke weed?" here in AZ I've heard stories of people getting charged with DUI the day after they smoked weed.
At the time this officer did the test, you did not appear safe to drive. (You "could barely stand up.") The officer had no way to tell if it was from a panic attack or from being drunk. Therefore they were justified in arresting you and having you tested.
All they have are a set of screening techniques. At best, those tell them whether you appear safely able to operate a motor vehicle at the moment. That's the end of the officer's diagnostic ability.
If you saw the state I was in it would be obvious I wasn't fit to be taking the test. The cop clearly knows I wasn't faking it. He was the one that pointed out that I was about to vomit mid test. And also saw how lucid and normal I was after I recovered vs how detached and confused I was during the test.
When I posted this I didn't think I would end up debating whether or not I was faking it. I didn't think any mental health deniers would chime in.
There's also more to the story that could be added. To me it seems like this department was trying to go out of their way to charge people with DUI because the day before was 4/20 and a lot of people would have weed in their system. In the cop car on the way to the station I said "well I guess its a good thing I didn't smoke weed yesterday" and his tone changed after that.