Your fiance should find another salon that can help her fix this mess. It's probably not going to be ideal or cheap, but she should look for someone who is willing to be honest with her about what her best options are even when it's bad. That's the kind of competent hairstylist you want to get involved here: someone who knows what needs to be done, what the best long term options are, and is going to advocate for it, even when they know their client isn't going to be happy to hear it in the short term. Likely your fiance is going to need to handle short, not-blonde hair for a time, unless she wants to spring for a wig while her hair is growing out (not a bad option). You should do this immediately as it sounds like there could be serious scalp damage that may need to be addressed ASAP to prevent it progressing (hair falling out at the root, excessive pain from extensions).
Once you fix it, then you can look into suing the original hairstylist for the damages (here: cost to correct the original hairstylist's mistakes, so save the receipts from any appointments/treatments she has to book in relation to correcting this). In many locations, hairstylists are also licensed. If so, you may be able to report this incident/salon to the licensing board as it resulted in hair loss.
I'd take her to see a doctor to get her scalp checked to see if there's potential chemical burns or any other number of causes for the pain alongside consulting with a different salon. You don't want her rushing into any corrective proceedures if her scalp needs medical treatment or time to heal first or it may just make things worse.
Keep track of any and all receipts from the problem salon, new salon, any other expenses and medical or any other documentation going forward to present if you decide to persue legal action. Better to have too much paperwork to prove your case than not enough.
There are plenty of beautiful, realistic wigs out there. One of those sounds better and safer for her while her scalp recovers and her hair is growing back than crappy extensions. The cost of the wig can be included in your damages calculation.