Your friend could get fined and/or evicted if they are trying to circumvent a no pet policy in a rental unit.
I'm helping a close friend with anxiety and other mental issues adopt a cat. They've owned a pet previously, and have no issues taking care of them, but have never gone the adoption route before. I was intending on going and adopting the pet for them (along with helping them with vet visits etc while they're getting their anxiety issues worked out) as a gift to them for Christmas, as they are going through a rough time and I wanted to surprise them.
Then buy them a gift certificate for the adoption fee (any small rescue would be happy to accommodate you), or go with them and pay the fee. A cat isn't a set of dishes or a bicycle. It's important for the adopter to meet the cat and make sure the adopter has a feel for the cat and vice versa. There's a saying in rescue that the cat chooses the person, and this really does have some truth to it.
That's not what they're doing. You don't know the friend, or the situation. You're just making assumptions and judging the situation based off of them.
What you're doing it setting up a failed adoption, which is unfair to the cat and pretty terrible for the person, too. Seriously. I have a lot of experience with this. You're also cutting the person off from the help and advice a rescue can provide if they run into any issues after the adoption.
Just give them a nice card with a certificate (either from a rescue or make one yourself) for a cat adoption. Hopefully, they will be thrilled.
I think that what you're doing is great and your heart is in the right place. But please, I beg you, do it the right way.
Because the person hasn't met the cat and the cat hasn't met the person. You aren't buying an inanimate object. Sometimes a cat meets a person and just, well, isn't into them. They don't like their scent, they are standoffish. Maybe the person gets a bad feeling about the cat. Maybe both can overcome these, but why should they have to? This can all be eliminated by meeting before the adoption. If one cat isn't a good fit for your friend, another will be. You're asking someone to make a 15-20 year commitment to taking care of a living thing that is going to require their time, energy, and money. Shouldn't they get to meet them first?
ETA: I have to go out but if you have any questions about helping your friend adopt, reply and I'll check back in later.
If the friend doesn't want to go to an adoption event, smaller rescues that foster their cats will probably be able to arrange for you and your friend to visit the cat in their foster home, which is a quieter and less stressful environment.
How is it setting up a failed adoption, exactly, when I stated that the friend in question is perfectly capable of taking care of pets and that I myself was going to help and be involved?
I know the idea of showing up at your friend's with a cat with a ribbon around his or her neck is what's in your head. I get why you want to do that. But I have years of experience with this. Please trust me. The adopter and cat need to meet before the adoption -- for both of their sakes.
You'd most likely be in breach of contract with whomever you adopted from, as most adoption agreements expressly prohibit this. They could file a small claims or other action to get the animal returned, if so inclined.
Do you know what kind of penalties there are for violating the adoption agreement? I would assume they differ from organization to organization, but generally speaking.