I know that wouldn't be grounds for suing. They broke guidelines by letting someone in the store with no mask until I had to complain to them, they're required to deny entry and not make me go out of my way to do so, they even have it taped on their front door. Then denying me to place an order because I don't want to stand directly where someone with no mask was just speaking because their employees lacked to meet state guidelines.
It makes sense that they don't have to take my order where I want, i get that. But they can't make me put myself at risk because they weren't following the county mandate they agreed upon. As a consumer, I expect the business to follow their own, and county-wide requirements. Restaurants that want to stay open and operate have to follow and enforce the mask mandate or they can shut their doors. Since they didn't I was trying to find a solution where they could still take my order.
They weren't making you do anything. You're free to not go there and complain to the applicable government agencies, in this case, the health department.
the reason I didn't go there was because I don't have to put myself in the position of risk inside a business that agreed to meet certain requirements. A high risk person, and someone who has an agenda that requires them to be in contact with the elderly and have an obligation and respect for the people at my own job shouldn't have to be described as unreasonable for not wanting to stand directly in a spot where som kid with no mask just was.
Well when you said I chose not to order in the area it wasn't a choice I wanted to take really, it was something I had to do to avoid a risk that shouldn't have been there in the first place if the company would have followed their and the county's guidelines. The workers clearly didn't tell the guy to leave which they're required to do, before they even step in the place. So the workers are potentially putting people at risk by blatantly ignoring what they're supposed to do. If I'm already inside the store and have to tell them to do their job something is wrong, and to try and be nice and compromise from their ignorant actions and be turned away for doing so isn't right on their end.