In many regards, laypeople were actually ahead of mathematicians when it came to accepting negative numbers. The notion of debt requires some sense of negative numbers, and when looking at a ledger that reads “Harry owes 3 sheep. Sarah is owed 2 sheep” it can be very hard to argue that this isn’t a representation of negative numbers regardless of the intent of the writer. If the ledger had said “Harry owns -3 sheep. Sarah owns 2 sheep” then it would be unambiguous that these were negative numbers, and in my personal and scholarly opinion (speaking as a philosopher rather than a historian) there isn’t a good way to systematically draw the line between the two ledgers. I certainly wouldn’t defend the idea that the ledger saying “Harry owes 3 sheep” represents a formal understanding of negative numbers, but I also don’t feel that “Sarah owns 2 sheep” represents a formal understanding of the positive integers! In economies across the globe people got by just fine with notions of credit and debt for thousands of years without any metaphysical angst.
The first recorded use of negative numbers is from a Chinese manuscript called Nine Chapters of the Mathematical Arts that’s hard to date, but is from the Han Dynasty (202 BCE - 220 CE). Some of the material in the manuscript predates the Han Dynasty but there’s no particular reason to think negative numbers do. One very interesting thing about this book is that, in contrast to early western systemic works of mathematics, the focus is on problem solving and not theorem proving. Between that and the fact that the solutions are all “actual quantities” it’s unclear how “actually existing” negative numbers were thought to be or if they were viewed as a useful abstraction for solving real problems. The idea of solving problems with “not actually existing numbers” might sound strange, but we actually have very good documentation of the fact that this was how many mathematicians viewed the complex numbers in Europe for a while: they were useful abstractions for solving polynomial equations, but not “actual” entities. This is where the terms “real numbers” and “imaginary numbers” in their modern usage came from, the terms being coined by Rene Descartes to emphasize that “imaginary numbers” are a mental fiction.
The first systematic account of negative numbers is also from China, from the 3rd century CE. Liu Hui published a book that systematically solved all of the problems presented in Nine Chapters, and developed a relatively robust understanding of negative numbers to do so. To Hui, negative numbers are viewed as a second type of number, in some sense opposite to positive numbers. He describes them using colored rods, a common counting device at the time. Red rods represented positive numbers and black rods represented negative numbers. Black rods could be “added” the same way red rods were (in modern terminology, addition of negative numbers is called subtraction), they cancelled (to use modern terminology) with black rods, and he had an understanding of how to do problems like 5 + -6 as well. I don’t have a copy on-hand and cannot easily find a translation free online, but I do not believe that he had an understanding of statements like 6 x -3 = -18 or -3 x -3 = 9.
Negative numbers would be independently discovered in India, though the date of the manuscript is unknown. Estimates vary from 200-400 CE to 800-1000 CE. Again, we see negative numbers expressed in terms of the concept of debt. Note that I say “expressed in terms of” very deliberately, as number as an abstract concept wouldn’t be fully developed for a long time. In Ancient Greece, where numbers were geometrically grounded, we don’t see any development of the idea of a negative number despite their intensive investigation of numbers.
The connection between negative numbers and debt is evident in these early sources. While neither Hui nor Nine Chapters tie negative numbers to debt explicitly, the “counting rods” Hui references were real objects used by people to do calculations including using different colored rods to represent debt and surplus. Economic interactions was a major reason to use the rods, especially the black “negative” ones. It’s believed that they were widely used in Hui’s time.
The translation I am quoting is from Høyrup 2008. See also Hughes 1986, Høyrup 1998, and Rashed 2007.
The idea of “numbers as abstract objects” is a relatively new one. Before the year 1000, I am not aware of any written record of “number” that is wholly detached from anything physical, and for a long time afterwards the idea of numbers that didn’t correspond to something physically real bothered people.
Moving forward to Islamic mathematics, in Al-Khwarizmi’s treatise on algebra he discusses numbers as financial values explicitly. He refers to them as “possessions” and uses coins as a unit associated with his numbers, as seen in the following quote (translated “as literally as possible” into English by Jens Høtrup from a “rather faithful” Latin translation by Gherado of Cremona):
Negative numbers would show up ad hoc in Europe starting around the 15th century but not be universally accepted until Leibniz used them foundationally in his invention of calculus.
Ultimately it’s hard to say how laypeople felt about the “actualness” of negative numbers over two thousand years ago, in large part because for most of history the thoughts and words of laypeople were not recorded. People certainly had a working knowledge of negative numbers, at least insofar as they were able to do basic calculations involving debt, before any formal notion of negative numbers was presented by mathematicians. In historical mathematical work, we can often see the impact of everyday mathematics in the way mathematicians framed problems. At the same time, arguments like “show me negative 3 sheep” were advanced by mathematicians in Europe in the 1600s so it seems rather presumptuous to assume that they weren’t considered by laypeople before the year zero.
Maybe it's semantics, but I'm confused by the line you draw between "actually existing" and "useful abstraction". Aren't all numbers and mathematical concepts useful abstractions which we use to do math?
I guess you could say that some abstractions are easier to relate to real-world applications (e.g. counting objects uses positive integers and addition).
To pick an example somewhat at random, ancient Greek mathematicians didn’t consider non-constructable (geometrically) numbers to be “numbers” at all. They were paradoxes, contradictions. A number wasn’t something abstractly identified with a line, a number was a line. The fact that the number 5 exists is a direct consequence of the existence of a line of lenh 5.
Putting aside the mental tortures involved, multiply 5 + √−15 and 5 − √−15 making 25 − (−15) which is +15. Hence this product is 4.
Why is this? Math is an abstraction that is connected to the real world. This connection is very simple at easy levels (counting) but gets harder the more abstract it is. For instance, fractions make sense when cutting a thing in half but not when looking at discrete items.
Imaginary numbers were sometimes thought of as “non-sensical intermediates.” They didn’t belong in the actual answer to questions but you could use them along the way. They were lies we tell ourselves, mental fictions that make the results come out correctly. This is not dissimilar to the notion of a “fictitious force” in physics.
The people in the cultures without formal logical training would answer "I don't know, I've never been there" or "Why don't you ask the neighbor". They did not see the logical argument and could not conceive of it even when explained. This also applies to negative numbers since they are an abstract category. A negative sheep is not a physical entity but an abstraction, meaning "I owe you a sheep".