\ A single Israeli MRAP that Israel has denied sending Ukraine or being involved with, but is of a sort which may have been sold to a neighbouring Country which have already provided other aid.
If you check UN's voting history, Ukraine has mostly voted against Israel, and never in Israel's favor, even very recently (when it could just abstain).
> This was the 124th time that Ukraine has either voted against Israel (97 times) or abstained (27 times).
Thousands of comments on reddit calling for Israel to help in the last few months, as if it's our responsibility.
The first MRAPs were South African, NATO also has their own version, not the same as US MRAPs but similar: big fast armored truck for moving troops and if it drives over mines it might lose a wheel but nobody will get hurt.
We are not close to Russia and still sent millions of aid, people, knowledge, intelligence, medicine, equipment and much much more.
Yeah because it's not really about what Israel is doing or not doing, that's the hypocrisy I'm trying to highlight in my comment.
It's just about blind hate towards Israel and grasping at any possible excuse to shit on our country. Woke internet is weird.
No. I don't get the idea. Israel has contributed more than most yet got more shit than literally everyone but Russia themselves (Well, maybe China too, but the fact that it is even comparable just proves my point).
I disagree with you, Israel did in fact do more than most. There is no opinion here, since most countries of the world did nothing. It is just facts.
And still, despite all that, it's only threads and comments shitting on Israel non stop in this sub.
Factor into that the tiny size and population of Israel, the fact that it is not even on the same continent, the fact that we have our own problems surrounded by enemies on pretty much all sides and from within.
But hey if you say "Zionists" then it's not blind unfair hate and racism, so just use that word and it's all cool.
Israel did do more than most, I have no idea why you are attacking me (For things I did not say as well).
My point in the original comment was to highlight the amount of pure unfiltered hate Israel gets in reddit, much more than any other nation on earth when considering it's size and the small scale conflicts it is involved in, when comparing to literally any other place on this planet.
I'm glad that unlike most of this sub, you see Israel's contribution and are not blindly looking for excuses to hate it.