No. Notaries are not able to sign on a transaction or document that involves themselves either directly or secondarily.
You can have things notarized online now. Also, most banks and post offices have notaries available... Sometimes you can even have one come to you, for a cost.
Thanks for the info! Im so screwed. My wife's car is broke, I'm severely disabled and I've no way of really finding a notary to sign this document. Ughhh, what a nightmare.
Edit: I missed the 18 yo part. So, to clarify, if due to his impediment she has any kind of legal right to manage him, she cannot both transfer those rights and notarize the document.
So who has control over your brother currently? I think I'm misunderstanding. If you live together, like you are his custodian and she lives with you also, that'd be a no. But if, since he's 18, no one has custodial rights over him and what you need signed isn't transferring responsibility but establishing it, then yes, she's an outside party. I think I'm just confused with the term 'custody' in this context. He's technically a legal adult. Do you mean they're trying to sign paperwork to establish Power of Attorney?
My parents are good people so I know there's nothing I should be worried about in having to sign this. He's happy, healthy and stays out of trouble.
Yes. That all makes it clearer and you shouldn't have an issue with her signing. It does sound like guardianship or POA depending on his abilities in the eyes of the state. I initially imagined things were more close knit but it's way less complicated.
Also, thanks for the info on how to go about getting this signed in the instance that my mother can't. I really appreciate you taking the time to explain it to me.
I'm glad to give what info I can. I've heard the online notarization can be complicated but there are a ton of in-person businesses that require a notary on shift. It's just not one of those things people think about often. UPS and a local copy shop I frequent have them too. They're closer than you think. LOL.
Hope everything goes smoothly with this. It may be easy in regards to what your family needs to do, but there's a lot of hands it's got to pass through. Make sure everyone knows the timeframe to expect and keep an eye on its progression. Y'all have a good evening!