At least 508 protesters have been killed by Iranian forces since the protests began in September, including 69 children. That doesn't sound good at all. RIP. Specially kids should never have to go through this.
Except these people are not being sentenced to death! They are protesting, and police forces are being sent in to break up the protests with little regard for the lives of the protesters.
Remember when Iran's parliament put forth a letter calling for harsher punishment for protestors and we were assured this DID NOT mean the execution of 15,000 protesters?
To execute someone you have to explicitly decide “that person dies” and kill them while they are completely defenceless.
Sending in armed police to deal with a group of protesters, with the expectation that maybe some of them will die, is completely different.
I mean if you're a stickler for ceremony then yes, otherwise the dead probably can't tell the difference. I suppose if you ask nicely they will label it "execution by police" (or suicide by police if you're Russian).
If you want to use Russia as an analogy, calling these killings executions is like calling every dead Ukrainian in the war executed.
You just seem really caught up in semantics, I happen to give less of a fuck. The Iranian government is despicable either way, it's not like officially executing all those people would change the optics. Same deal with Russia.
Nah, I just wanted to make that joke. Not everyone is trying to use everything as a way to win arguments, chill.
They weren’t. The vast majority were killed in fighting. Very bad, shouldn’t have happened, people should be held accountable, not executed.
Doesn't really matter anyway, neither country will give up as long as we don't change the narrative about their actions (we won't, and neither should we but that's the situation).
Maybe the dead don’t care, maybe their families don’t care, but there is significant differences in intent and accountability.
I’m not disputing that this is a big problem, but do you honestly not see the difference between that and an execution. Do you see no difference between an execution approved by the president, and a police officer killing somebody at a protest?
I know America is not Iran, I was applying your argument as to why these killings should count as executions to an American scenario.
If you only agree with the conclusion of your argument in one scenario but not the other, then clearly you don’t actually believe in your own argument.
Justifying supporting Hamas as supporting an oppressed people is like supporting the Nazis because Germany is oppressed.
Hamas explicitly calls for every Jew in the world to be killed, they fire rockets at civilians, and they use human shields.
Nazi Germany tangled with bigger military powers than it, and got pummelled back pretty hard, and had its territory blockaded.