As long as you did not actively encourage his suicide you will be fine. Liability comes from a breach of some sort of duty to him.
What you are looking at is a little boy who cries wolf situation. He threatened suicide so many times to manipulate and control you that it was reasonable for you to believe that this last threat was similar.
As you have a history of placing the needs of others ahead of your own, even if those needs are irrational, and that you tolerated his behavior for such a long time, it is not surprising to me that you blame yourself on some level for his death. Please know that his death was not your fault. It was a choice he made that has nothing to do with you, no matter what he said.
Thank you, I appreciate the straight up advice. It is hard because he put so many aspects of his life on my plate to deal with, including his own, but at the end of the day he made a choice and he is in a better place without pain. Even if he did it to stick it to me and the world, I did my best and tolerated more than I ever will again.
EDIT: I did meet his family several times and overall I was well liked. But circumstances might change when all our communication gets combed over.
Thank you for the feedback. I would not consider myself wealthy, though by comparison I have a larger amount of assets than he and some of his family have. He largely lived in relative poverty, and when he had a shortfall every now and then and I helped him out because I didnt need my boyfriend getting evicted or starving. That said, he sent messages over so many different apps and emails, from several voip numbers and he would delete anything off his phone that made him look like he was anything but an innocent victim that could do no harm to anyone. So depending on what his family gleans from his phone, I could look like a great person or a diabolical monster.
Thank you, and I have found a great counselor to help me. With their help I know I will move forward and be wiser not to put myself in these types of relationships/situations.