They have no legal obligation to show you any footage or hand over any footage unless either the police get a warrant (unlikely in this situation as it's a civil matter) or the footage is subpoenaed by your lawyer.
I was actually considering a lawsuit against them tbh. I know it’s pretty extreme but it really bothers me that there’s footage of which I know 100% that I didn’t do anything wrong or make any mess or whatever they’re accusing me of. I feel like they so badly want to believe it was me who did it & are refusing to accept any evidence that would prove it wasn’t.
I guess I’m just having a hard time understanding how that’s even allowed. Restricting someone who hasn’t done anything wrong and refusing to accept obvious proof that theyre falsely accusing someone shouldn’t be legal but idk guess I could always find another storage unit. It’s the price and hours that made it more convenient for me tho.
The issue you have is that you don't have any damages. They can accuse you of damaging your unit, regardless of whether or not you did it (they obviously reasonably believe that you did). They can sue you for the damages and the footage could be part of the court proceedings. If you are served with a lawsuit, ask an attorney to draft a subpoena for the footage.
Telling you that you made a mess in your unit (whether true or not) does not amount to false accusations. They reasonably believe that you did. If they have video of a person who matches your discription carrying food and entering your unit and your unit a mess, they can reasonably assume that you caused the mess.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
Again, you would need to prove all 4 elements of defamation in order to be successful. Again, I think you've met one of the four.
If you're thinking of filing a defamation suit against them, I doubt you'd be successful. You would need to show 4 elements:
You might have a win with the first element if you can prove it was not you. The second element might be hard to prove. You would need to find someone else who the storage unit told that you were created the mess, such as other renters. Third element is even harder to prove. You need to prove that the storage people were negligent in making the statement (for example, if the person on the tape is an African American man and you're a white female, that might be a tipping point) but the real issue is the damages. You don't have any damages to sue for.
Another thing to keep in mind are that defamation suits are very hard to prove. The best defense for defamation is the truth. Also, making a statement accusing you of something does not make it defamation per se. The courts of ruled that people can legally give their opinion on an individual and not defame someone.
You have no damages, so there is nothing you would sue for. Your agreement for the unit almost certainly allows them to tell you at what hours you may access it.
If I was under the impression the unit would be accessible up until a certain hour, and they decide to change that so it’d be inaccessible a couple hours sooner than usual & it’s only me that applies to, isn’t that unfair considering I’ve done nothing to deserve that?