Sorry to disappoint you, but this has very little to do with the nationality of the people being denied, other than that there’s a lot of them from one (non-Muslim) place.
If they were coming en mass in the same numbers from Norway, Chile, or South Africa I’m guessing the situation would be the same- it’s a numbers issue.
In fact since summer last year it’s been suddenly and unusually difficult for Russians in Turkey to get short term residence permits. They were still handing out plenty of longer term ones (if you buy property > $75k USD, for instance, although it’s still short term because after a year or two you have to renew).
If anything, since all developed countries are now experiencing population craters, the era of mass migration is just now getting started for real and for the foreseeable future.
Mass migration of Russians into Turkey at the moment has moved from being a drop in the bucket to a smaller drop in the bucket. Nothing worse than that.
That is the dilemma that Japan and South Korea are facing. Low birth rates due to a culture that makes having children very difficult (in addition to general affordability concerns), but low migration due to covert and overt hostility to migrants from Southeast Asia and elsewhere.
Canada, for example, is taking in 500,000 immigrants per year. That's more than the population of Iceland every year (i.e. a country's worth of new doctors, chefs, plumbers, lawyers, entrepreneurs, leeches on the system... all the good and bad humanity has to offer... mostly good though, because immigrants are typically far more law-abiding and well put-together than people who can't figure out immigration).
Canada can handle all this because it's big, developed and multicultural already. Likewise the USA. Likewise Germany.
Canada is used to immigrants. There are tons of public, church, and NGO services to get them integrated. On an individual level chatting in an elevator or at a rec center, Canadians treat refugees like helpless puppies. That's not a bad way to be treated, for the first few years in a scary new place, lacking language skills and scrambling to integrate.