The bathroom remodel doesn’t have to be his idea for him to benefit from the additional equity it provided (if any). If you leave he will continue to own the newly remodeled bathroom, so it doesn’t make much sense to me that you should pay for that.
There is some merit to his argument that you are living there and should have to pay some amount for the use of the house in those months. I’m not sure what a fair monthly amount would be to compensate for that, but it seems it would be easiest if he paid you back for his portions of the mortgage you paid, your portion of the down payment and the cost of the bathroom remodel.
Your 50% equity is worth 9k plus half of what the principle of the mortgage has been paid down. Functionally, he loaned you $7k and you repaid $3k so deduct $4k from the total to complete the repayment.
To highlight an example, let’s assume the mortgage is $800 principle and $400 interest each month (approximately; it shifts over time, but 5 months is nothing). In that case, you paid down the mortgage $4k in the 5 months (5x800). That would lead to a total buy out of: 9k (down payment) minus 4k (remaining loan) plus 2k (half principle paid) equals 7k. Since the bathroom remains with the building, the $800 should be returned to you, leading to a grand total of 7800.
But the key is what is the house worth. To make things completely easy, just think of a partition by sale. If neither party could buy the other out and the house sells for 220k what would OP be owed? Her contribution only? Or the appreciation of her investment, even if part of it was a loan.
Equity is equitable and it grows over time. We could drill down into the mortgage and say that the money she paid has been 95% interest, which would be accurate (semi without knowing the rate and doing the math, but you understand the point).
First, OP and her ex have essentially agreed that she will be reimbursed her contributions. Not get the proper equity out of the house; simply reimbursed what she put in. That is what they have both based their calculations on. She wants $8800 and he is offering $5000. This is the financial range of the discussion. The core question is not "what is the completely correct way to buy OP out", but rather "what contributions should be reimbursed".
But if I, as a non attorney web developer were representing OP (which would be highly illegal and open me to so much exposure) I would get an appraisal as a first step. We are in such a weird market now, in my city property is literally appreciating on a daily basis. Not knowing if they got a "deal" or what the property is currently work becomes an issue.
If I were representing OP as their web developer, I would do an appraisal. Then base any offer off of that if it was favorable.
I disagree with this. Depending on the current housing market and if they got a "deal" on the house, I would say an appraisal is needed. What if the house is in a hot market and they can sell it tomorrow for 230k. She should realize part of the appreciation like she would in a normal sale. Plus the house is just as much hers as his, so I would not vacate until a deal is reached.
This is not an unreasonable way to go about things. It smells of fairness; she is restored to the position she was in 5 months ago. In addition, while we do not know how the local housing market has developed, it may well have decreased in value (was it a peak 5 months ago?) or stagnated.