In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
From talking to several republican gen z that I work with the answer seems pretty simple, the promise of protecting “traditional family values”. They were raised with the image of the bread winner father caring for their devoted stay at home wife and 4-5 children because that is their identity, and they see the way the world is changing as not just a threat to their dream life they were raised to expect, but also an affront to their morality.
They believe that progressives have ruined women to be selfish cheaters and look down on men as inferior and want to see a return to form where women are subservient and loyal, and men are respected as the head of household. They believe that LGBTQ people are poisoning the minds of people which undermines their perceived ability to live the life they want. They believe the government is taking money from hard working Americans to waste on frivolous things that Dont effect them like roads and schools and social programs, and they Dont want the rich to be taxed either because in their minds that will be them one day and they Dont want to have proportionally more money taken because they feel that they earned it against all odds and it is unfair.
The GOP, on paper anyway, promise to protect that ideal life and as far as they are concerned the only people that matter are those in their small social circle, and they Dont care about anything else… Out of sight out of mind I guess.
In my opinion all that is a long way to say “fuck you I (one day will) got mine” but I do find it particularly interesting that younger generations who have access to information and socialization in a way I never dreamed of when I was a child made it to their mid 20s and are somehow still like that.
This shit seems to only be attractive to young conservative incel men and like a handful of hyper Christian girls who want to be stay at home moms.
Right, I understand that but they have been raised to only trust people from a specific group and that everyone else is a liar. They can see with their own eyes who is doing what but they so deeply trust the in group and distrust the out group that it doesn’t matter to them.
If people have good wages, benefits, and unions the church will lose a lot of followers. I saw a video the other day of a former Mormon saying “god keeps people poor to come to the church” and I think that’s why all of those things are opposed so much.
I’m unfortunately less optimistic, I foresee a hard shift right coming on but I am so far beyond a pessimist that my opinion doesn’t matter.
I’m a millennial and I am blown away at how wise and empathetic the majority of gen z is turning out, so I do hope you are right.
You described my small sample group pretty accurately tbh. A dozen or so insecure young men and two hyper religious women who believe their ultimate duty is to breed.
It's really more down to my personal experiences and my own idiosyncratic way of thinking. This may end up reading like a trauma dump as a result so I apologize in advance.