A lot of the converts of the warrior elite at the time were daimyô in Kyushu or Southwestern Honshu, which is where the trade ships arrived first. Since at the time of the Europeans' arrival the country was not unified, being able to do trade with the bringers of better guns was obviously a strategic advantage, especially if the Christian foreigners brought firearms with them.
So, the simple, materialistic explanation would be - disregarding personal questions of piety in unique cases - that becoming Catholic was seen as a means to improve diplomatic relations with the foreigners, which, in turn, would then facilitate trade.
Oda Nobunaga (the first of the three unifiers, whereas Clavell's novel writes more about the other two) himself, although never converting, also took a cordial stance towards the Christian mission; in his case, apart from economic reasons, that might have been motivated by a desire to curb the influence of the great Buddhist monasteries.
Also, as long as the missionaries themselves did act with prudence and tried to understand the culture they were dealing with in their endeavors, a new religion wasn't necessarily that "alien" as you might think. For the Japanese, virtually all religion (i.e., the many variants of Buddhism) always had come to the archipelago through foreign contact to begin with.
And, as some scholars advocate, even the outlawing of Christianity under Tokugawa Ieyasu (1612) arguably wasn't targeted against the religion per se, but primarily against its permeation of the ruling elite - until 1637, when a rebellion had to be put down which had used Catholic imagery on their flags.
Would it have made the Japanese more religiously flexible that their 'native' religion was already a sort of spectrum of Shinto and Buddhism rather than a single clearly-defined creed?
On the one hand, Shinto wasn't a clearly defined "system" until modernity, but rather a loose hierarchy of various "major" deities and rituals promoted by the imperial court, with countless local practices.
And Buddhism itself, apart from being split into many sects to begin with, is by virtue of its origins rather open to integration of other ideas (e..g, deities) into its own cosmos. I do remember hearing (way back in undergrad) that Jesus was incorporated into Buddhist worldviews in various forms: as a Bodhisattva, or an emanation of the Amida Buddha, or even a demon. In this regard, the already extant religious framework wouldn't have as big a problem adapting new ideas as - in the case of Christianity - the other way around.
And concerning the latter, I did read that some Christian daimyô converts apparently did engage in destroying shrines and Buddhist monasteries.
Also, as far as I know, the Jesuits in Japan during the 16th century were quite perceptive of cultural differences, and some advocated for introducing a "custom" brand of Catholicism that would be easier understood by the locals, which they generally regarded as one of the most civilized cultures they had come across in their missionary work. This, for all intents and purposes, heresy (in the eyes of Rome) eventually could then be transformed back to the "original" Catholic practice, once people grew more accustomed to its ideas.
In light of this, it might be interesting to know what the missionaries actually preached to the converts .
You've given me a lot to look into, particularly regarding Buddhism. I never knew that Jesus was incorporated, though I guess it does seem in line with most other non-monotheistic faiths. Shame most got eradicated by the Abrahamics.
Wondering how the destruction of monasteries would have been viewed by Buddhists. Some took an active role in the fighting (e.g. against Nobunaga), so I imagine they weren't quite as inviolable as churches in Christian Europe.
Heh, the Jesuit approach feels somehow familiar. If I'm not mistaken, the church went down a similar path with the New Zealand Maori, and ended up as a pretty... unique... sect.