Thanks, fantastic answer! I know pre-1st sacking of Rome questions are delving into murky territory; I was listening to THoR and it seemed some of the religious practices were in place surprisingly early. This may also be an archaeological question as well (and if so pls disregard), but it seems like the founding myths of Rome (from migrants roughly from where we believe Troy to have been, around 8th cent. BC) are surprisingly accurate- is this as extraordinary as it sounds?
Latins and Etruscans were themselved highly influenced by the Greeks who were present in the peninsula from the end of the 8th century BCE: the first was Cumae, near modern-day Naples. The Greeks had a flourishing trade, especially with the Etruscans, who were very influenced by their religious and artistic culture. Indeed, in the 18th century, so many Greek vases had been found in Etruria and so few in Greece that there was a debate about whether red-figure painting was an Etruscan or Greek tradition.
This is a very interesting and difficult question, and it would more accurately belong in "Ask Archaeology", because archaeology is the only source we have about early Rome until the 3rd or 2nd centuries BCE.
The Romulus and Remus legend we know of dates of this period : as Mary Beard notes in her SPQR, it tells us more about what Romans of the middle and late Republic thought of their past than about what actually happened in 8th century Rome. So we can in no way take the fact that legend tells us R&R were the children of Mars that early Romans believed in Mars. To answer that question, we need to look at the archaeology.
Two good references you could look at from this are R. Forsyth's A Critical History of Early Rome (2005) and T. Cornell's The Beginning of Rome (1995, reedited since). Both are solid works and explain well and thoroughly. For more detail, see A. Carandini's The Atlas of Ancient Rome, which was translated from Italian in 2017 and contains a lot of up to date Italian scholarship, which is seldom translated.
Now, if we look at the context of the foundation of Rome, which annalistic history puts in 753 BCE, and archaeology evidence puts probably slightly earlier (although this is HIGHLY debated, and not the immediate object of your question). Rome was founded in the northern part of Latium Vetus, a region of Italy which is part of modern Lazio. This area was home to the Latins, a people who correspond to the archaeological culture known as the Latial Culture, which developed from the end of the Bronze Age (ca. 1000 BCE) in the are of the Alban hills, around the site of what Romans later called Alba Longa. We know these people mostly from their tombs, especially early on, but urban settlements are known from the 8th-7th centuries BCE onwards. Rome is on the Tiber, the border between Latium to the South and Etruria to the North (the last three kings of Rome are traditionally said to have been Etruscans). So we can see that from the beginning the site was subject to a variety of influences.
Still, it remains that the cultural influences of early Rome were very much influenced, at least indirectly, by Greek traditions about gods. To begin with, Romans believed in the existence of numerous deities, each of whom possesed specific powers exercised over discrete aspects of the physical world. The supreme god was Jupiter or Jove, a name which is etymologically derived from the same root as Zeus (Jupiter = Zeus Pater = Zeus the father), as both Latin and Greek are indo-european languages and derive from the same people originally. Here's what Forsyth has to say about Mars :
"Mars was a very important god among the early Romans as well as for the other Italic peoples of early Italy. In later times he was regarded as the god of war, but his nature was much more complex in archaic times. He may originally have been the god of the wilderness lying just beyond the edge of the peasant’s farmstead, who therefore was thought to exercise power over both farmland and wilderness. Consequently, he was invoked to protect crops and to assist Roman arms in waging war beyond the borders of the state. Ancient prayers and rituals clearly demonstrate his dual agricultural and warlike character.".
1. Some religious practices did predate the city of Rome, however the new context would have changed them significantly and made them probably unrecognizable. Some gods probably did preexist the city, though.
What is for sure, though, is that the creation of the city-state in the 8th-7th centuries in Italy and in Rome was a huge change in the organization of society, and can be thought of as a hug change in religious practices as well. Therefore while early Roman religion probably emerged from a pre-Roman backdrop, its use in the confines of the city-state (remember that in Rome, priests were magistrates of the city, and politics and religion were much more intertwined than they are nowadays), meant that a lot of deities and practices would have changed meanings in the new context.
Especially, whereas it seems that Etruscans did not represent their gods in an anthropomorphic manner before their contacts with the Greeks, they soon began using Greek names and iconography for many of their Gods, although exactly how much this process was assimilation of pre-existing deities to Greek names and images or importation of old ones is also something of a debate among Etruscologists.
Working on this information, some archaeologists believe that the evidence points to an almost exact correspondence with the written texts: Andrea Carandini is the best-known of these. He develops his theory in a book called Roma: Romolo, Remo e la fondazione della città (2000), translated into English as Rome, Day One (2011), where he defends the thesis that Rome was founded on a specific day in the 8th century by a king called Romulus, and that the written sources are pretty much exact.
Needless to say, this is extremely controversial and many scholars, including Forsyth and Cornell I cited in my original answer, but many others besides, also in Italy (Filippo Coarelli, for instance, another great name of Roman archaeology) do not believe this at all. They point to the fact that the legends can be convincingly explained as literary and mythological constructs built up in later centuries, and suggest that Rome was formed progressively by the gradual unification of pre-existing Latin settlements on the various hills, coming together as a united whole at some point in the 8th or 7th centuries in a process called synoecism. They believe that traces of these original inhabitants and original parts of Rome were preserved in ceremonies such as the Lupercalia and the Septimontium, which can be analysed to reveal the original communities which fused to create Rome.
Especially, Rome in fact has two foundation myths which later Romans themselves found quite hard to reconcile: on the one hand Aenaes' voyage from the Troad and settling of Latium with his companions (the Aenead story), and on the other Romulus and Remus' adventures. Later Romans seem to have reconciled the conflict by making the Aeneas story a sort of prequel to the R&R story, by making Aenaes the founder of Alba Longa in some period of the unspecified past, but these were originally conflicting tales and remain difficult to compare to the evidence. What it does mean though is that tradition, as it stands, does not suggest that Rome was founded in the mid 8th-century BCE by migrants from the Troad; it suggests that Rome was founded at that time by people who were descended from these migrants around ten generations later.
As with many treatments of this period however, we can see a problem: Forsyth doesn't date what he is talking about, and never says when "originally" refers to. This is a common problem as many of these analyses are drawn from ancient sources which do not give their own dates. So Mars was originally like this, but we can't say for sure when it was.
Well, the archaeology on this is very murky and highly debated. The problem with Roman archaeology is that the city carried on thriving for almost 3000 years and is still thriving today, and so difficult to excavate. There have been excavations, but a lot of what we know from very early Rome comes from opening up tiny areas here and there. A lot of material comes from the excavations of the 1870s: with the unification of Italy, Rome became national capital and was largely rebuilt with the opening of large avenues. A lot of information was destroyed, we have objects and more or less precise locations but most information was only just saved from destruction (a very interesting story, for another time perhaps). In terms of modern stratigraphical excavations, we have less than a football field's worth, and a lot of excavations cover only a few square meters at a time, if that.
The stories must also be put into the wider context of the heroic foundations of almost all Greco-Roman cities: Aenaes' story is the best-known, as it became one of the great pieces of literature of all time, but all cities had foundation myths involving heroes coming and founding the city. If they were all to be believed, the fleeing Trojans would have founded dozens of cities. These are generally regarded as more telling of later ideological development than of historical fact.
Yes, indeed they are: Greek colonies are a good example of this, and in historical times Roman cities were founded in the manner described in the legend of Romulus. Alexander the Great also founded a great number of cities while on his travels, most of them called Alexandria.