I wish you'd asked a little bit sooner - usually, threatening someone with legal action puts an end to anything that _doesn't_ involve legal action. However, what's done is done.
3. In total, before you took time off for your rape screen and for your mental health, how many sick days had you taken?
It is at least medium likely this was, if not a wrongful termination, then at least a very stupid one that leaves the business open to some legal problems, but details will matter. The suggestion _is_ going to be to get a referral through your provincial law society to talk to a lawyer, as these issues tend to be too touchy for the internet to handle well, but we can probably help set some expectations based on the circumstances.
Since you spoke to your manager as soon as you made the decision to take time off to go to the hospital, and told them you had been sexually assaulted, and especially since your manager verbally confirmed you could take the time off, your employer is _way_ out of line for terminating you. That early-employment period is pretty irrelevant, as while they don't need a reason to terminate you, they _can't_ use that as a way to conceal reasons that are illegal, so if they don't have any other issues with you, they're on very thin ice.
The troubling bit is that you were also absent for reasons not protected by the _Act_, prior to that, but if they did not act on that at the time, using it as a retroactive justification to end your employment now is questionable.
Do not write to your employer further, and _definitely_ do not drag your employer with other staff or on social media, until you have spoken to a lawyer.
The BC law society doesn't provide referrals, but most cities in BC have local legal referral services. You may also be able to get a referral through a sexual abuse support service, as this is a depressingly common need.
BC, yes I notified them in person and i took off two days of scheduled work and prior i had missed 1 online training shift and a small in person orientation.