Could u/clarunot request community service in leu of probation. I dont know if a prosecutor and judge would go for it but they could always ask their lawyer.
But OPs case is a bit strange considering it was a suicide attempt (and not, say, a DUI), so if I was his/her lawyer I would try all sorts of creative ways to resolve the case.
You can, but realistically a probation sentence from a plea deal often already includes community service. Asking for community service only is a very light sentence, not something a prosecutor will likely agree to with an accident + injury to the victim (worse still that a child was in the car).
My actions caused a wreck that I believe damaged their vehicle. I can’t see my punishment as justice if they’re just forgotten, forced to fix the vehicle on their own means.
Your plea deal might require you to admit to liability in damaging the vehicle and you may be required to pay restitution (i.e., the value of the damages you caused). You are free to request this in the plea deal (through the lawyer of course), though it's a bit awkward to ask for, like, extra punishment, but there's no rule preventing you from doing it.
As others said, call your lawyer and tell them your thoughts/wishes about this. If you specifically want to do restitution or some other restorative justice option, your lawyer is the best person to facilitate that. (Assuming there's some option for those type of programs and that you qualify.).
I thought this might be ok. Although my actual lawyer didn’t tell me this, I’ve seen this advice on this subreddit.
Also, though, consider that the people/family in the car may not want restitution or anything further to do with you or your case. Your intentions may be good, but there isn't much to do besides tell your lawyer what you want and then let the court decide as it will.
Also, the criminal justice system moves slowly. Nothing is an emergency unless your lawyer says it is. You likely have plenty of time to communicate your wishes to your lawyer. I understand that this is bothering you right now, but that's part of your mental health/recovery stuff, not so much a legal thing.