What you're looking at here is not the entire bunker, but a small part of it, called a cupola. Reverse image search tells me that this is a German one, part of their fortifications in St. Malo. This one looks to be a machine gun and observation cupola, as a part of larger concrete bunker or pillbox. The cupola itself extends deep into the concrete.
Now I can't speak to the origin, design or specifications of this particular piece in your picture. My knowledge is limited to Finnish WWII era fortifications, the Salpa Line, so the following details concern only them. The cupola itself is a separate piece, which has to be cast at dedicated steel works, and then transported to the site. Their immense weight, coupled with maximum capacity of available transportation technology at the time, placed a limit on where these fortifications could be constructed. Smaller and lighter, but also less protective cupolas were designed specifically so that pillboxes could be constructed in unexpected locations, where the infrastructure and/or topography did not allow for larger cupolas to be used.
In the case of the Finnish Salpa Line series of fortifications, the cupolas were made by Oy Wärtsilä AB in their steelworks in Taalintehdas, and by Karhula Oy (now Karhula Foundry Oy) in Kotka. A single observation cupola represented a tenth of the entire construction cost of a single bunker, like the one pictured above. These observation and machine gun cupolas used in the Salpa Line fortifications, could weigh up to 12 tons depending on the specific model and type. The one in your picture appears to be significantly larger in diameter, as it can house two machine guns inside it. These particular Finnish cupolas were cast in a single piece, and were at the time as large as the foundries in Finland could physically manage to produce. These were made of soft-cast steel, which was then annealed to improve its properties in withstanding temperature changes and shell impacts.
These cupolas were indeed solid steel, as both they and the reinforced concrete bunker had to be able to withstand direct and indirect fire from very large caliber guns. The thickness of the cupolas used in the Salpa Line was up to 300 millimetres on all sides. The cupola, as the entire bunker itself, was built to "Strenh Class I", which was defined in the Finnish literature with being designed to be able to withstand the following: "Continuous indirect fire from 305 mm artillery, direct fire from 210 mm artillery, singular 420 mm artillery shells, 500 - 1000 kg aerial bombs".
These were installed by creating a wooden support structure on which the cupola was then lifted and carefully placed. Normally the support structure was built in conjunction with the steel framework used for the reinforced concrete, and then the concrete was poured in afterwards. When the cupolas could not be delivered in time, a slot was left for them to which they could then later be placed into and the construction finished.
Understandably, transporting and installing these massive slabs of steel was the most precarious stage of construction, due to the difficult terrain where the Salpa Line was being built to. Small mistakes in fastening them during transport, or in the very final stages of moving them into position could cause the entire thing to crash several meters down through the support structures, or worse.
It's indeed expensive, but unfortunately steel was expensive and using it the only practical solution. The observation cupola was a necessity. The bunker's weapons crew had a very limited field of view, and was close to the ground. The placement of these bunkers was designed in such a way, that the weapons were never pointed directly toward the enemy's likely route of advance. There needed to be a way for the soldiers manning the bunker to observe the enemy's movements when fully locked in for combat. This was achieved with an observation cupola, giving them a 360 degree field of view and a sight line that was roughly three meters higher than that of the weapons crew. As a secondary feature, it allowed for some 360 degree close defense. They were also used as artillery forward observation points.
Using steel, albeit expensive, allowed the cupola to be as small as possible, while not forming a weakpoint in the bunker's structure. That 300mm of steel will allow for same level of protection as concrete that's measured in meters. Any sort of observation structure made of concrete would have had to sacrifice either field of view, protection or camouflage-ability. Some examples of how camouflage remaining today:
The pre-WWII defenses drew inspiration in their size and function from the French Maginot line, but were no where near as sophisticated, strong or massive in scale. They lacked the resources to build a similar belt of fortifications as the French had done.
The bunker built during the WWII on the other hand drew inspiration from the German system of using standardized type drawings, Regelbaut. This made the designing and building quicker, allowing to more easily create depth into the defensive works.
The bunkers themselves were absolutely fine in their design and construction. The issues were mostly with a lack of resources, as they had not had the time to build sufficient defense in depth, (something they attempted to fix with the Salpa Line) lack of suitable heavy anti-tank guns and a lack of time in preparation by the men manning the positions.
The two fortified main defensive lines on the Karelian Isthmus were broken through by the massive Soviet offensive, while the Salpa Line had to never see combat as the Soviet offensive was finally stopped via defensive victories at the battles of Tali-Ihantala, Vyborg Bay and Vuosalmi. Interestingly enough, the last line where the offensive was stopped, was only a defensive line in name, as very little defensive works had been constructed by that point.
The experience gained during this offensive was put in practice with the Salpa Line, where further improvements continued being made based on lessons learned in almost real time.
One of the key lessons was the high quality of Soviet reconnaissance. They had scouted extensively detailed maps of the defensive lines, when the Finns had relied on the enemy not being able to accurately identify the weakpoints. These weaknesses were then exploited mercilessly, which led to quick breakthroughs. As such, any future defensive line had to: "...appear weak where they were the strongest, and strongest where they were at their weakest.".
Lagerstedt, J. (2012) Salpalinja - Sotahistoriallisten kohteiden arkeologinen inventointi. Helsinki, The National Board of Antiquities.
These armoured cupolas were factory-made. Krupp was the biggest maker, but other companies made them as well. They're made of steel armour (i.e., a high-strenh steel), and the above-ground portion is about 25cm thick. The most common model of this type was the Sechsschartenturm 20P7. "Sechsschartenturm" can be translated as "six embrasure tower" or "six gunport tower". These cupolas are smaller than many people would expect from a photo with nothing to judge the size from. Two cupolas with people and cars for scale: