Sewering in English settlements was a rare feature before the Black Death. The gang-fayers, goung-fermours, or gong-farmers, in addition to emptying cesspits and gulleys would be in charge of unblocking the "assorted solid matter" that blocked the sewers and drains of houses and towns.
Despite the Romans having left intact covered sewers in their settlement buildings these seem to have rarely been used by the Anglo-Saxons. In the 700s in England large buildings such as monasteries and churches might have their own cesspit or possibly a lavatory sluice, people who lived in small settlements (which was most people) would more often defecate on straw in an animal barn or somewhere in the settlement's immediate surroundings. Buildings in large settlements sometimes had privy boxes that could carried away, or people might defecate into the midden (settlement rubbish dump), or they may also have used straw in the animal barns.
However, there's an old saying in my neck of the woods: "wheah theahs muck theahs brass"... human waste had a value as fertiliser and the Anglo-Saxons weren't going to waste that. Whether or not a waste pit was full the "fertiliser" would be spread straight away if required or left in pits until was usable, by "usable" I guess we mean diggable/bucketable and not frozen.
We don't know how much they were paid or if they were paid at all - there were many early Medieval jobs that were rewarded with regular food and habitable lodgings, something that could be hard to buy. People of the time weren't as divorced from their waste as we are now so the value of the job probably wasn't considered as high as it was by the more squeamish Tudor times. It's very reasonable to suppose that everybody, particularly farmers, would have shared the effort of collecting/transporting the waste given that its fertilising properties were to their ultimate benefit.
The Angles were, of course, Scandinavian and there was a constant movement of trade, people and technology between Anglia and Scandinavia, so the archaeology shows many of the same (or parallel) features in Anglian settlement life in the 700s that we see in Scandinavia at the same time. Toileting methods seem to have been similar in Anglian Scandinavia and further north in Sweden where the archaeological evidence shows that farming and settlement methods were broadly similar to those of their southern neighbours.
Neither Scandinivians nor Anglo-Saxons were big on written histories so we don't have a contemporary source naming the kak-diggers, but if the root of the later Medieval term "go-farmer" lies in this era I'd guess at gang-bonde or gang-bu (go-farmer), maybe even skita-bonde (shit farmer).
"And they proceeded to plough and to support themselves": the Scandinavian settlement of England; Hadley D; 1997.
Central-places, Exchange and Maritime-Oriented Identity around the North Sea and Western Baltic AD 600-1100; Loveluck C; 2012.
Apocryphal footnote: A colleague is fascinated by the East Thirding/Riding prevalence of "shit-house!" as a personal insult and has often wondered if this goes back to Norse, a language which may have been spoken in the rural parts of the county up until the 14th century. If he's correct then "skita-hus" could well be the unknown, unwelcome job title we're looking for.
Wow This is awesome You never know how much you miss learning until you leave school. I run a dnd game and wanted to make sure even the small details like this were correct. Thank you!
The answer to that would have to be _what cities??_ There simply weren't any in 700 AD. It's only in the second half or so of that century that the first small trading posts are founded, Hedeby in Denmark and Birka in Sweden, and these things are defining events in the beginning of the Viking Age.
I mean, good point about the cities, but that was more of a mis-wording or a poor choice in vernacular than it was an actual belief that they lived in full on cities. My apologies. I understand that they typically lived in small villages but that doesn't exactly detract from the main question at hand, which is where'd they dump their poo? Either way, thank you for the answer.
Those places never had more than 1,000 people at most though, and mostly quite a bit less than that. Even the largest Scandinavian town, Stockholm, at the end of the Middle Ages, a full 800 years later and by which time the country's population was more than triple that in the Viking Age, was only about 6,000 people.