One specific leader in the first world war that likely suffered from PTSD was the American Major Charles W. Whittlesey. Whittlesey is remembered best for leading the 77th Division against the well entrenched German line in the Muese-Argonne sector of the front in October of 1918. The offensive went as planned initially, but soon Whittlesey and his men found themselves encircled. Those men who were encircled are historically referred to as the lost battalion. Isolated from American and French reinforcements, Whittlesey ordered his sub-officers the following as the 77th dug in.
Taylor V. Beattie in the Military History journal does an excellent job summarizing the hell those Americans went through.
Afterwards, Whittlesey drafted his will and boarded a freighter to Havana. Whittlesey then disappeared; assumed to have committed suicide by jumping off the ship. His remains were never found.
I would be willing to argue that Whittlesey's PTSD did stem from experience in the Argonne. Lt. Col. Dan Grossman did use Whittlesey as an example of PTSD in his book On Killing. I don't have a copy right now, but I might be able to quote some of that later if you would be interested.
Disclaimer: I've never posted here before, but I will do my best to follow the rules and do a good job. If you have any criticism or critiques for me, please let me know.
Thatnk you for sharing. I don’t know if this directly answers my questions because it seems like Maj. Whittlesey suffered PTSD from direct combat experience and being under siege. I’m wondering if commanders developed PTSD or similar disorders from outside of combat, for example ordering wave after wave of men to their deaths.
I am struggling to find first hand accounts of commanders without direct combat experience suffering from PTSD after WWI. I remember a quote about commanders visiting the front line [perhaps Joffre] and being shocked at what their troops were dealing with. If I find it, I will post it.
Would you be able to put this in a bit more context? Was he unpopular, and they were hounding him about his decision? Was he just in contact with a lot of the men, and they would tell him these things? Or is this an allusion to "ghosts" or the memories of the men always being with him, rather than actual correspondence?
In terms of just PTSD, the book On Killing does discuss the correlation between proximity to the "victim" and increased suffering from PTSD. Since generals and other commanding officers were typically miles from the front line, they wouldn't likely suffer from PTSD to the same degree as a Poilu in the muddy trenches. In addition to that, leaders often suffer from guilt. Lt. Col. Grossman writes the following in On Killing. This context is referring to leaders in direct combat though.
>"But the price for the leader who has lived through such a situation [intense combat] is high. He must answer to the windows and the orphans of his men, and he must live forevermore with what he has done to those who entrusted their lives in his care".
Unfortunately, I'm struggling to find context with regards to Whittlesey being contacted by other veterans after the war. I interpret him hearing from his outfit as quite literal, but I can see it both ways.
> As each of his men is wounded or killed, their suffering hangs on his conscience, and he knows that it is he and he alone who is making it continue. He and his will to accept the suffering of his men are all that keep the battle going. At some point he can no longer bring himself to must the will to fight, and with one short sentence the horror is ended.".
On Killing has been criticized by some historians due to Lt. Col. Grossman's use of S.L.A. Marshall's research. Marshall and his study of non-firing combat troops has been debated since most of Marshall's data was fabricated. Grossman does address the fact within the book though. This book is written for a broader audience, so I do agree that it isn't flawless as a source. Never the less, I still hold Grossman as a credible source since he is a veteran, former professor of psychology and military science, and personally conducted many of combat veteran interviews.
In Lt. Col. Dan Grossman's book on combat psychology, On Killing, Dan does bring an interesting point about the leaders paying a price for combat exposure.
Hasn't the premise of that book been largely debunked after it was found he fabricated a lot of his data? I could be wrong,but I've referenced it many times only to be presented with articles about it's inaccuracies.