I think it's a stretch to say it was ever popular and here's why: at the time that Anglicanism is introduced in Ireland the Irish parliament spoke for practically no one.
Prior to its reorganization into the Kingdom of Ireland in 1541, English rule in Ireland was never particularly well organized and at the beginning of Henry VIII’s reign it’s actually at something of a low point. While all of Ireland was technically under the king of England's authority, in reality the king never really had the ability to directly rule most of Ireland like he did England.
Instead, from the time of the Anglo-Norman invasion in 1170, Ireland was ruled mostly by a patchwork of local lords both Gaelic/Irish and Norman/English. In areas ruled by Gaelic lords the rulings of the English-style parliament were usually completely ignored in favor of retaining the old medieval Irish legal system. In theory the Norman lords were supposed to be more loyal to the king and to follow the English legal system but over time they also largely ignored it. By the early 14th century the Normans in Ireland had largely assimilated to Gaelic Irish culture. A lot of them saw this as a way to further slip away from the King's influence and by this time many of them were not particularly loyal and essentially ran their own territory as if it were independent.
There was one exception to the general lack of Kingly authority and that was "The Pale," a fairly small area centered around Dublin. By the time of Henry VIII's reign nearly all of the lords who actually bothered to participate in the Irish parliament came from this area. It's also worth noting that this is long before any kind of democracy. There isn't even a house of commons in the Irish parliament in this era. The parliament was composed only of the aristocratic landowning class and represented only the aristocratic landowning class. Common people had little to no say in what parliament did and there's no reason to think its decisions represented any kind of popular opinion. Initially Anglicanism was hardly adopted by anybody but the types of men who would've been in parliament and their families. It was largely confined to the Pale and only in Dublin itself does it seem to have been generally adopted by anyone in the lower classes.
Outside of the Pale the response was overwhelmingly against Anglicanism even among the aristocracy. The Earl of Kildare, the most powerful of the quasi-independent lords, responded by immediately renouncing his loyalty to the King and going into rebellion. Its only in the response to this and other widespread resistance to the suppression of Catholicism that Henry significantly steps up the English presence in Ireland and upgrades it from a lordship to a kingdom with equal status as England itself. Over the next hundred years there's basically an on and off conflict against the remaining Catholic lords in Ireland until Oliver Cromwell reconquers Ireland in the 1640s and dispossesses nearly every Catholic landowner in the country. The general population never adopted Protestantism and came to associate it with the (often extremely violent) attempts to forcibly assimilate them into English culture and even at its height less than 20% of the population were Anglicans.
Anglicanism did survive however as the religion of the aristocracy even into the 20th century. There were also a number of middle and working class Anglicans in Dublin and the old Pale and these areas are still the most heavily protestant parts of the Republic of Ireland today, although many of them emigrated after independence in the 1920s. There's also the case of Northern Ireland, where most Anglicans in Ireland live today. In the early 1600s it was colonized by British protestants as part of a plan to cut down on Catholic resistance in the region, although the vast majority of those protestants were (and are) Presbyterians, Puritans, and other "dissenters," rather than Anglicans.
Honestly I slipped up there and exaggerated a little bit but it is true that Anglicans are a minority even among protestants in NI. The number of Anglicans in the republic is part of the reason they account for so much but its also due to the fact that Protestants in NI are splintered between a lot of different sects, and there's a lot of nondenominational or independent churches thrown in. The Anglican church is the second largest Protestant denomination in NI but even then they account for slightly less than a third of all Protestants.
Can I contest the idea of Anglicanism ever truly taking off in Scotland? As I understand it, the reformation in Scotland as led by those such as John Knox was primarily Calvinist/Presbyterian in nature and later Protestant monarchs struggled to assert control over the Kirk - Culminating in the Kirk's victory in the Bishops' Wars and the later establishment of a Presbyterian Church of Scotland.
I'm guessing OP is conflating all forms of Protestantism in Scotland and England with Anglicanism in the premise of the question, but would be interested if anyone could correct my understanding of the reformation in Scotland.