Is this technically HPPA? Its documents I provided albeit one accidentally(pictures of my current 4 meds), so I could return to work. But they also put my private medical affairs like my panic attacks, etc in a word document and the world to see. I'm aware of HPPA I just don't know if this categorizes into it because they didn't "illegally" obtain it.
HIPAA doesn't just apply to illegally gotten data--but it does appear that HIPAA would not regulate the use of this information by an employer; only a medical provider.
Looks like this is actually a violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act and you would want to file a complaint with the EEOC (equal employment opportunity commission). Under the ADA, employers are required to treat medical information from employees as a confidential medical record. It does look like you'll need to file this complaint withing 180 days. It appears the EEOC is able to sue and recover damages on your behalf.
HIPAA only really covers healthcare entities and those with direct connections to them like vendors. If you take your own healthcare information and provide it to your employer and it is leaked, that is not a HIPAA violation.
On the flipside, let's say your employer uses a vendor for drug screenings and they log into a portal to view the results. If that account is a shared account among all HR staff and someone views everyone's drug screening results "just for fun" without reason, then that is a HIPAA violation. The reason being is they accessed the account of a healthcare system to get that information (the lab that did the screening).
If the results were downloaded and stored on a company drive (for some totally legit record keeping reasons) and an employee accessed them through the company hard drive, that would not be a HIPAA violation because the violation didn't occur under a covered entity under HIPAA (the lab that did the screening).
Lots of companies use document sharing platforms with some of them being all locally stored (it doesn't leave the building to a 'public cloud') and the data is encrypted while in transport and at rest. You would have to authenticate to the software to access it using company credentials and hopefully/presumably it would be data you were supposed to have access too.
It's entirely possible the company didn't have stuff set up correctly, but if you're not an IT person ("computer literate" leads me to think you know your way around) how did you determine it's on a public cloud and accessible by everyone?
I know my way around computers and went to properties, (you know, right click on the contraband and scroll down to properties and you can see where its stored and it said public). I have pictures of everything. They know I got in when accessed by the IT guy and freaked out. I requested a meeting and they told me to wait until after lunch. They had the entire team of managers there , but the lawyers advised me to shut the fuck up. So I did, and made up something else.
Thank you. They are aware I know, and saw as IT was able to tell them where the file was originally deleted, lol. They were scrounging to cover their asses on Friday, but again, panic attacks which are now made public to the whole company has me shaking to go in to the place I've worked the last two years.