Pennsylvania changed the law a few years ago. The term “visitation” was replaced by “partial physical custody.”.
(1) where the parent of the child is deceased, a parent or grandparent of the deceased parent may file an action under this section;.
(2) where the relationship with the child began either with the consent of a parent of the child or under a court order and where the parents of the child:
(ii) do not agree as to whether the grandparents or great-grandparents should have custody under this section; or.
(3) when the child has, for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, resided with the grandparent or great-grandparent, excluding brief temporary absences of the child from the home, and is removed from the home by the parents, an action must be filed within six months after the removal of the child from the home.
In this case, the court will consider what kind of relationship the child has with the grandparents, if it interferes with parental rights, and the best interests of the child.
(i) whose relationship with the child began either with the consent of a parent of the child or under a court order;.
(A) the child has been determined to be a dependent child under 42 Pa.C.S. Ch. 63 (relating to juvenile matters);.
(B) the child is substantially at risk due to parental abuse, neglect, drug or alcohol abuse or incapacity; or.
(C) the child has, for a period of at least 12 consecutive months, resided with the grandparent, excluding brief temporary absences of the child from the home, and is removed from the home by the parents, in which case the action must be filed within six months after the removal of the child from the home.
In this case, the grandparent must show that they are willing and able to care for the child, that the parents have no form of care or control over the child, and that it’s in the child’s best interests.
Thank you for your input, there are no court orders, my wife and I are both alive, functioning, and contributing members of society, with many people who could testify to our sanity and capabilities to raise our children. My mother wants to force her way into my children's lives. My oldest, 14y/o wants nothing to do with her, as he has seen and heard how she talks about and treats others.
Due to my mother's issues, we do not have our children around her very often, and this is not suitable to her. She has made threats before and again just recently, that if her demands are not met to see the kids on her terms, she will call and have the mortgage foreclosed on.
I am curious how you ended up with title to the property while she remained on the mortgage. That is normally the sort of thing that triggers an "acceleration" clause in a mortgage with makes everything due all at once.