There aren’t really any Muslim accounts of the crusade as it happened, and to answer your question literally, there especially aren’t any sources from the Turks, who were still a semi-nomadic culture and didn’t write much of anythng down at this point. Arab writers like ibn al-Qalanisi, al-Azimi, or ibn al-Athir wrote their accounts of the crusade only decades or even over a century later. Although they might sometimes describe the crusaders as strong and brave, they weren’t very interested in them. They were more concerned with what went wrong, and blame Muslim disunity and a general failure to take the crusade seriously.
The earliest author to talk about the crusaders is al-Sulami, who wrote a legal treatise on jihad around 1105, a few years after the crusade. He seems to have understood who the “Franks” were (the crusaders and Muslims both typically used the term “Franks”), and that the crusade was their version of jihad. But he was way ahead of his time because no one else thought about the Franks in terms of jihad for several more decades. For the most part, no one really knew or cared where they came from or why they were there. Most Muslim authors assumed they were some kind of Byzantine army, since those were the only European Christians they were aware of.
To add a bit to this, there was an earlier question about Muslim stereotypes of Europeans before the crusade.
Muslim geographers, based on ancient Greek geography, believed that the Franks lived in a zone where:
So, at least among educated people who knew that the Franks existed, they would have assumed the crusaders were blue-eyed and blue-skinned giants from the land of ice, big dumb brutes who were naturally warlike. Whether the Turks during the First Crusade knew any of that, I’m not sure, since unfortunately we don’t have any accounts of the crusades from the Turks themselves.
In any case, the other Muslim sources suggest that the only reason the crusaders were victorious was because of the lack of cooperation among the Muslim states, not because they were particularly brave or skilled.
\- Francesco Gabrieli, Arab Historians of the Crusades, trans. E. J. Costello (University of California Press, 1969).
\- Niall Christie, Muslims and Crusaders: Christianity's Wars in the Middle East, 1095-1382, from the Islamic Sources (Routledge, 2014).
\- Paul M. Cobb, The Race for Paradise: an Islamic History of the Crusades (Oxford University Press, 2014).
Sorry I'm late to the party, but you mention that the Muslims would have thought the Christian army were Byzantines as they were "the only European Christians they were aware of." I would have thought that perhaps since earlier Muslim expansion made it to the Iberian peninsula that they would have known of these other Christian people. Is it because of the cut off because of Fatimid Egypt, or perhaps because it was a couple of hundred years after the Abassid revolution? What reason made them unfamiliar from the other Europeans since there was contact with them in the past?
Oh I'm sure they knew Europe was full of Christians, and educated people and specialists who had actually studied Europeans (like al-Masudi) were probably aware of the different kinds of Europeans and different types of Christianity. But that's just a tiny amount if people...most people wouldn't have known or cared. They knew about the Byzantines so when a Christian army showed up, coming from the direction of Byzantium, they must also be Byzantines, right? Otherwise they knew as much about Europeans as Europeans knew about them, i.e. basically zero. I'm not sure if it was because they were cut off because if the Fatimids...I think it was just that they didn't care about things that weren't immediately relevant to them, and the Byzantine Empire was the only Christian state they knew, so they didn't worry about what was further west.
Also, for the Turks specifically, since they were fairy new to the Near East as well, I doubt they had any idea who lived in Europe at all. The Arabs may have known something about Europe even if it didn't really matter to them in the 1090s/they had forgotten about it, but the Turks never had that contact to begin with, since they had only arrived a few decades earlier.