In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Yet, Desantis, Stitt, and these other governors seem to think teaching and education is easy, or that kids are easy to manage. Kids are human, with amazingly complex needs and great sapience to boot. They are smart, and they can pick up on the bullshit as well. They know this is not normal, but when bringing in any rando off the street is the standard that gets accepted, they just accept it as adults unwilling to care about them.
They don’t think that, their supporters in their faux populism and transactionalism do, a la the “I got through K-12, so I clearly know what it’s all about!” type pablum.
And when you add in apathy, nay hostility, to critical thinking in general, no one should be surprised that this is treated as dogma among the “school choice/parental rights!” groups….
I was thinking about how many awful words there are always thrown about to people who value intellectual pursuits—nerd, geek, egghead, poindexter, etc.
For some reason, our culture really devalues intellectual pursuits and learning. They think it's a bad thing to love to learn and progress.
They seem to think things were better "Way back then", as if they way they did things was always so perfect, with no problems of any kind. Yet, their Arcadian time was still dystopian for a host of groups. That's the crazy part to me. How anyone could look back with great fondness, it's beyond me.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Yup. It takes a lot of training to work with students of all backgrounds. I've had students living in the back of a car, kids whose only meals are the school breakfast and lunch, students who have been abused at home. I've had to make DHS calls with the principal, I've had to make calls to rehab facilities to have kids detox off drugs. The things I've seen are unbelievable.
However, a few people have rose-tinted glasses about the era. It turns out, those people were either enforcers or are children of enforcers under the regime.
If you go to Brazil and ask people what it was like under the dictatorship, most people answer that it was terrible.
And given their thinly veiled prejudices/willingness to direct their hatred as needed (China Virus!) certainly not that part.
There are a few of them in the US who say the quiet part out loud. "It's about power, plain and simple.".
That is most certainly happening. They want to destroy education to set up a greater level of haves and have-nots. There are still kids working in factories. We are already doing this right now.
Yup. They are basically trying to raise "Christian nationalist" soldiers to fight their wars and die, so the likes of Eric Prince can achieve his ultimate wealth.
Well, Republicans will be more than willing to turn schools into Christian madrasas, basically Sunday School. That's their endgame. They want to have all schools subject to their Christian nationalism. That's where the likes of Christopher Rufo and Desantis hope it goes.
Wow. That is ridiculous. We wonder why kids keep fighting. They get incentives for doing it. Then, they only see teacher discipline as a joke or something they welcome.
Do her principals do surprise evaluations or send the students back to class with a bag of chips after being kicked out of class for disruptive conduct? I've had that happen before.
Wow. I had kids watching a fight in which a kid's nose was broken. If it weren't for me hearing it, the kid would have been beaten up worse. I cleared out the bathroom and pointed to the students who were watching it happen. I had to single out the many students who were involved, but no consequences. The kid did point out the kid who punched and broke his nose. He did get suspended for 5 days.
Many kids at my school actually hoped to get kicked out of class, because they could be with their friends during in-school suspension. They would also be able to get out of class and go to what we called TRAICE to be with their friends, where they didn't have to do any classwork or finish any projects. Then, we'd have to go visit them in TRAICE on my plan to help them with work. That was my plan which I used for my IEP Meetings for (over 35 IEPs by the way). They wouldn't do anything. They just liked sitting there and being out of class, so they wouldn't have to do any of the classroom work. They saw being placed in detention as a reward, because nobody was making them do any work. They just got to chill with their friends.
One day when we were short on office staff, I worked in the office to take calls and answer the door. The art teacher called because one troublemaking kid was calling kids profanities and swearing up in class to the teacher. She called. I messaged admin. She called again. I messaged. Apparently, it took me going to get the student to bring him to the office for something to happen.
I brought him to the assistant principal, and the assistant principal got pissed at me for doing what I did and helping my fellow teacher. Like what?
Last year was a trial. I could write a horror story off it. The amount of times kids got high in the bathroom, the times kids broke chromebooks by smashing them, times kids almost threw a desk across class. It was crazy.
Odd that she apparently had enough time to single out a mere sub, but some relish those who can’t fight back really….
She shadowed me far more than necessary, so figured it was just her way of passing the buck whenever I was there per diem.
The irony in their tone being that if they didn’t see this link, such words would be indistinguishable from today’s “parental rights” groups:
I’ve heard stories to that degree describing the tenure of a particular principal, in which students sent to her was like playtime with candy and suchlike.
That's what there is a teacher exodus happening right now. No one cared to value teachers whatsoever. Ever since I quit, I have found my stress levels go down significantly, and I don't have headaches like I used to. I actually have lost weight as well, and I'm in better shape than ever before. It's incredible.