You should attempt none of those things. You need to get an estate planning attorney and come up with a strategy. A will is always good, but perhaps a trust, perhaps some other instrument. Someone needs to look at all of her current finances, including all assets and all debts, to come up with a plan that isn't a nightmare as you put it. This isn't a DIY project but the GOOD news is that this is totally do-able and you're asking all the right questions. How many total children and is she still legally married? That's huge.
I do not believe there are a lot of debts. She is current on taxes, etc. I also don’t know for sure.
I should change my wording. Lucid may be incorrect. She’s just very ill, very easily exhausted so only short periods of time feeling well.
If she's only intermittently there, it's likely too late at this point. They can try getting an estate attorney or planner involved and seeing what they say though.
The estate attorney you find will probably suggest a trust, but how lucid she is will really matter. It may not be possible to do anything if she's not capable mentally. Someone has to give consent to having a POA and a POA can't make a will. If she passes away intestate, the four children will split the estate, the problem being the house might have to be sold to pay off debts. If the house can be transferred into a trust or other instrument, it might avoid probate. What would she wants done with the house? Are there a lot of debts?
She should, if possible, construct a will that details the disposition of her assets. This will shorten the process of closing the estate and, hopefully, provide a cleaner solution than multiple parties jointly owning property.
If she may live for a period longer while questionably/not competent, her children may also want to consult an elder law attorney.
Yeah, elder law is just the name of the field because that's who tends to need it (planning for worsening dementia/mental impairment, long term care, medical decision making, discussion of available resources and when they might be useful/necessary, etc).
Start with the estate attorney/planner, but it sounds like an elder law attorney is also probably a good idea.