Personally, I would call the local public health department ASAP and ask them to inspect the property to see whether they consider it habitable. If they find significant mold or otherwise believe that the property isn't habitable, they'll tell your sister to vacate and the landlord will likely be forced to either house her in a different unit, pay for her to stay in a hotel, or allow her to break her lease.
My understanding is that generally the landlord is going to be obligated to pay for alternate housing for the tenant while the unit remains uninhabitable and the lease is is still in effect, but that's going to be dependent on both state and local laws. A local lawyer is the best person to tell you exactly what the landlord is obligated to cover and for how long they're obligated to do it.
Yes she does have renters insurance. I do believe she’s called already and gotten some money for the couch but I have to ask her again for specifics. Also if she were to move into a hotel with her child too btw would she stay there until she find another living situation or will she be given a set amount of time in a hotel? And calling the health department is definitely something we’re going to do because I’m afraid that ceiling won’t last much longer.
The renters insurance will almost certainly cover a hotel room stay for a reasonable lenh of time while the unit is uninhabitable, and then will likely go after the landlord to pay them back since it's his obligation in the first place. This is probably the most hassle-free avenue for your sister to take. Personally I'd call the insurance company and get the specifics on what they will cover if the health department orders you to vacate so you can start figuring out alternate housing, then call the health department ASAP.
2) The landlord is partially right, renters insurance will probably cover her property like furniture, electronics, etc. If she files a claim, be as specific as possible in describing each item. Writing "TV" will let them find the cheapest TV on their list and pay her that. Writing "42 inch LED TV of Brand X" will get closer to the real value. The renters insurance may try to go after the landlord or his insurance, but that doesn't concern you. Let them sort it out between themselves.
IANAL. Your sister would probably benefit from a consultation with a local attorney who handles landlord/tenant issues.
Okay I’ll ask her to look over the lease again. She also asked the landlord for another accommodation but the landlord said that’s not going to happen and it’s still fine to live in, even though the ceiling is so loose it can be pushed in. But thank you for your response.
Read over her lease very carefully. Some leases will allow a tenant out in circumstances like this one. If the lease doesn't allow it, she is stuck. The landlord however, has to provide her with other livable accommodations (a hotel if no other apartments are available). Worst case scenario, she can move out and defend herself in court claiming unlivable conditions. If she stays living in the apartment, she'll have no argument in court if she decides to not pay rent etc.
1) Read her lease. It may allow the agreement to be broken if the property becomes unlivable. It may say she can get a hotel room until the property is fixed. If the landlord has an empty apartment available, that can be an alternative as well.
3) Is there code enforcement in your city/county that you could call to come check out the property? If the damage is obvious enough to an untrained eye to make the property unlivable, that's one thing, but it might help to have a trained opinion on your side in any dispute.
5) Insist that the landlord repair the ceiling. Mold is probably not a concern yet, but if the ceiling is sagging, it should be replaced. Depending on how long the repair takes, she might be entitled to stay in a hotel on the landlord's dime until it's done.
4) Utility bills. Unfortunately, unless the landlord is paying the water and she's paying him back at some fixed rate there's not much to do here. She can try calling the water company, sometimes they have some flexibility, or a program to assist people who can't pay for incidents like this.