I'll do my best to answer this but I'll have to go outside the 80s to mention relevant factors from earlier in the conflict.
The early 1970s saw what we now usually refer to as the "insurgency phase" of the conflict. The British Army felt this ended by 1972 but it's clear looking at the casualty figures that the earliest years of the Troubles were the bloodiest.
Various names have been given to the time after that, the long war, the terrorist phase etc. British officers used to joke about "an acceptable level of violence" but you see a drop from over 12,000 shooting and bombing incidents in 1972 to less than 3,000 by 1977.
British intelligence activities meant that the IRA had reorganised for the most part to a cell based structure by the late 1970s (a notable exception being in South Armagh). They were a lot harder to infiltrate but it also meant that there was less contact with the civilian population and cells could operate a lot more autonomously.
Though it was not the reality, civilians were not meant to be a target. Bombs planted in civilian areas were not intended to kill large numbers of non-combatants but instead disrupt economic life in Northern Ireland. This was also why phone warnings were typically given although the cryptic nature of these generally resulted in more confusion and in some cases, the civilians evacuated closer to the bomb. The IRA realised the negative publicity they received from civilian casualties but it wasn't enough to deter.
The IRA maintained that its campaign was focused on the British security forces and not the predominantly Protestant unionist/loyalist population but sectarian killing occurred throughout the conflict. A lot of these were 'tit for tat' killings where the murder of a civilian by one side would see revenge attacks occur. Massacres such as Kingsmill were so horrifying that by the mid 70s leading republicans and loyalists agreed to a halt on random sectarian killings though this would be broken in later years.
So in short, civilians weren't the target (in theory) but in practice, this did not work out and many of them were killed. There were also numerous civilians killed in what the IRA viewed as justified circumstances (like those mentioned above).
Then there's the murky ground of what the IRA considered a civilian. The IRA did not view past members of the police or army or loyalist paramilitaries as such. Politicians, judges, prison guards (past and present) were also considered exempt from this. By the early 90s, even civilian contractors working with the RUC or British Army could be targeted. Informers were also seen outside of this rule. Anyone suspected of leaking information to the security forces or otherwise could be executed.
I always recommend Bandit Country by Toby Harnden as it is a fascinating insight into what was probably the most dangerous region in Northern Ireland during the Troubles for the security forces.
Beresford put it succinctly as to the question of when the troubles actually began: henry the VIII decided it was british. after that? take your pick of dates.
Thanks. When bobby sands ushered civilians working in the building he aimed to bomb into its basement, was this meant to protect them or trap them?
> Though it was not the reality, civilians were not meant to be a target. Bombs planted in civilian areas were not intended to kill large numbers of non-combatants but instead disrupt economic life in Northern Ireland.