South Korea had many dictators, most prominently Rhee Syngman (the first president) and Park Chung-hee. Apart from brief periods of post-coup military rule, South Korean dictatorship sat behind a democratic facade.
The facade wore thinnest when Park Chung-hee discarded the constitution of the Third Republic and established the Fourth Republic, with 6 year presidential terms and no limit on the number of terms (allowing himself to remain as president indefinitely). The 1971 presidential election had been much closer than the government had expected. Park Chung-hee had won with only 53.2% of the vote, with the opposition candidate, Kim Dae-jung, with 45.3%. Thus, the new constitution. Park Chung-hee easily won the 1972 and 1978 presidential elections, running unopposed. His goal of being president-for-life was fulfilled, with his rule only coming to an end due to his assassination in 1979.
Where real elections (i.e., with the opposition allowed to run), governments used vote fraud, voter intimidation, and violence and threats against opposition candidates and supporters to maintain their hold on power. This varied from the banning of some opposition parties, the imprisonment of supporters of the opposition (sometimes followed by torture and accidental or deliberate death in prison), the murder of political opponents (Syngman Rhee's government killed well over 100,000 opponents, taking advantage of wartime conditions to murder political opponents by the truckload (literally)), and the use of military force to suppress opposition (most famously, the Gwangju Massacre, when the army killed about 2,000 pro-democracy protestors in Gwangju in 1980.
For nearly two decades beginning in 1961, General Park Chung Hee ruled the country ruthlessly, while developing its economy rapidly by promoting export industries. After staging a coup against the second republic in 1961, Park’s Government dissolved the assembly and replaced the civilian officials with military officials, as well as this he set up the Korean Central Intelligence Agency to monitor and disrupt the opposition. The Third Republic was presented as a return to democracy but in reality, it was still a dictatorship, communists were persecuted and harassed by the security services and a number of political activists were quashed. In 1971 Park declared a national emergency, before launching a self-coup in 1972, based on the one done by Ferdinand Marcos a few weeks earlier, granting himself wide-ranging powers and removing any checks on his power, including, the media, the national assembly, and the universities. Under the Fourth Republic, Park ruled the country with no constraints, as his popularity waned in the late 70s, instability was marked and he was eventually assassinated in 1979.
South Korea has had at least three periods of what can be termed dictatorship since its establishment in 1948.
The first period would be the presidency of Rhee Syngman (1948-1960). Under Rhee political dissidents particularly communists were brutally put down, as well as this he was potentially involved in the murder of Kim Gu, one of his political rivals. When Rhee’s term was at an end, in order to maintain power after failing to introduce a popular election for the President in 1952, Rhee declared martial law, rounding up the assembly members by force, he called for another vote. His constitutional amendment to elect the president by popular vote was passed with 163 votes of the 166 assembly members present. When Rhee’s second term and final legal term was at hand, he fraudulently forced through a constitutional amendment allowing him to stay in office indefinitely. In the May 1956 presidential election, Rhee won only 55 percent of the votes, even though his principal opponent, Sin Ik-hui, had died of a heart attack ten days before the election. Rhee's running mate, Lee Ki-poong, fared much worse, losing to the Democratic Party candidate, Chang Myon. The administration became increasingly repressive as Liberal Party leaders came to dominate the political arena, including government operations, around 1958. Rhee's personal secretary, Yi, and his wife convinced Rhee to adopt their son as his legal heir. For fear that Rhee's health might be impaired, he was carefully shielded from all information that might upset him. In 1960, the Liberal Party managed to re-elect Rhee and to elect Lee Ki-poong vice president by the blatant use of force. Rhee was re-elected by default because his principal opponent had died while receiving medical treatment in the United States just before the election. The fraudulent election touched off civil disorders, known and celebrated as the April 19 Student Revolution, during which 142 students were killed by the police. As a result, Rhee resigned on April 26, 1960. The next day all four members of the Yi family died in a murder-suicide.
Less than two months after Park was assassinated, on October 26, 1979, General Chun Doo Hwan assumed power through another coup to suppress the democracy movement after the death of Park Chung Hee. On May 17, 1980, Chun extended martial law over the entire country and disbanded the National Assembly. On May 18, he dispatched troops to quell growing protests against martial law in Kwangju; those troops killed 207 people and injured 987.  Upon taking full power in 1980, he abolished all political parties, limited press freedom, and introduced a slightly less authoritarian constitution, limiting him to a single seven-year term. He was sentenced to death in 1996, however, later pardoned.
Look up Gwangju massacre. My uncle, a high schooler was killed, my father a college student at that time was captured and tortured. All because they were protesting and seeking to remove a dictator out of office. They were branded as communist for wanting democracy in Korea. My father is in constant pain from his torture and has and will always live with this pain. The dictator that killed people for protesting was the infamous chun doo hwan, bastard was put on death roll after they put him on trial more than a decade later but was pardoned. Still makes my blood boil that he was pardoned and makes my blood boil the Korean public did not know about the gwangju massacre until more than a decade later.
Yong Pyo Hong, State Security, and Regime Security, President Syngman Rhee and Insecurity Dilemma in South Korea 1953-60 (2000).
Lee Byeon-Cheon ed, Developmental Dictatorship, and the Park Chung-hee Era, The Shaping of Modernity in the Republic of Korea, (2003).
Christian W. Haerpfer, Patrick Bernhagen, Christian Welzel, and Ronald F. Inglehart eds, Democratization, (2018).