The simplest answer is that France wound up with a zone of occupation because French political opinion was almost uniformly in favor of this, and a combination of military necessity and political negotiations gave them a zone.
The political spectrum of the Fourth Republic in 1944 was overwhelmingly in favor of some sort of French participation in the upcoming occupation of Germany, although the reasons varied widely. On the more conservative end of the political spectrum, one could sum up the goals as "retribution" - the need to punish Germany for its constant invasions of France, and to neutralize any possible future threats. This went beyond denazification, seeing little difference between the German state and its people, and called for a "deprussianization" - the breakup of Germany into smaller states, and a shift of German political power to the southwest, closer to French control and influence. Edmond Vermeil was a political scientist on this end of the spectrum, and Charles de Gaulle and General Marie-Pierre Koenig were sympathetic to this outlook, although I don't want to imply that they signed up to some sort of comprehensive program.
The French Left was, in summary, more interested in rehabilitation than retribution. French Socialist and once-and-future Prime Minsiter Leon Blum was a leading force in this outlook, emphasizing German disarmament, punishment of war criminals, and social reform, ideally in some sort of Europe-wide federal structure.
The French zone itself was constructed out of areas originally allocated to British and American occupation (the Rhineland-Pfalz area came from Britain, the southern Baden Wuttemberg area came from the US), and was done previous to the Allied invasion of Germany proper starting in late 1944/early 1945. The French First Army not only made good on occupying assigned areas, but also occupying Stuttgart, which had been assigned to the Americans. The turnover of the city to American authorities was negotiated in return for the transfer of Mainz and Koblenz to French occupation. As far as Berlin goes, the French hoped to have control of the cultural center of the city transferred to them (remember the whole city was occupied by the Soviets at first), but ultimately they had to settle for a small sector in the northern part of the city. The French military government was of substantial size - something like 330,000 in the southwestern zone and 400,000 in Berlin in autumn 1945, although admittedly these tended to be relatively untrained and static forces.
It's worth pointing out that the occupation zone that France wound up with was the smallest of the four, and at least initially the most rural. As mentioned elsewhere, the French were not part of such conferences as the Potsdam Conference, but this should not imply that France was completely frozen out of diplomacy among the World War II superpowers. De Gaulle had in fact flown to Moscow in December 1944 to confer with Stalin on postwar Germany and future Franco-Soviet relations (you can read a translated transcript of their conversation ), and this resulted in a Franco-Soviet of Alliance and Mutual Aid a couple weeks later.
So in summary - there was no participation buy-in level determining who got to participate in the occupation of Germany. France had a strong political consensus in favor of a French occupation, and successful negotiations with the bigger Allied powers secured zones for French forces to move into, which was relatively easy given France's location.
Churchill, in particular, saw a strong France as vital to the future of Europe and to keeping Germany in check. So France was elevated to participation in Allied occupation of Germany, and the importance of the Free French in the liberation of Europe may have been inflated somewhat. This, of course, was a rôle that DeGaulle was quite willing to step into, and one the Americans thought acceptable as a way to limit the rise of French Communists.
De Gaulle's role in this is quite interesting. France had a very weak hand, speaking in terms of international diplomacy, and de Gaulle seems to have played hard in terms of sheer stubbornness, bluster and insistence on treating France as a great power (to say nothing of luck and creating "facts on the ground", like around the French liberation of Paris in 1944). If anything he seems to have overplayed his hand consistently, to the point of frankly being disliked by Churchill, Roosevelt and Stalin (Roosevelt would have preferred to work with General Henri Giraud, and Stalin would have much preferred to work with French Communist leader Maurice Thorez...the Moscow meeting between de Gaulle and Stalin was tense and chilly both literally and figuratively, and Stalin found de Gaulle "an awkward and stubborn man"). But somehow de Gaulle's gambles worked enough that each of the real Allied superpowers thought that also having de Gaulle's France at the table would be enough of a potential check on the others' moves to make it worth their while to put up with such a prickly figure.
This is all from me leafing through the relevant chapter in Jonathan Fenby's The General: Charles De Gaulle and the France He Saved.
Thank you, because this is an important point that I skipped in my answer. Churchill and Anthony Eden seem to have been lobbying behind the scenes in late 1944 to give France an occupation zone in Germany, a UN Security Council seat, and a seat in the Allied Council for Foreign Ministers in Europe.
It's worth noting that Germany was occupied after the First World War - but unlike after 1945, just in part, not in total, that part being the Rhineland. That occupation zone was between American, British, Belgian and French forces. The French were by far the biggest occupation force, with troops only finally withdrawn in 1930.