If any of her things are still there, and the courts haven’t issued the formal eviction order, then she has not vacated.
That is something I would have considered before spending money on an attorney. I'm on disability... Money is very tight.
Have you tried cash for keys? Paying her to officially GTFO? Get her to sign a statement saying that she has 100% moved out and has taken all of her belongings (hell, get her on video reading her signed statement out loud if you can). Don’t give her the money until her stuff is out and you have the statement in hand.
“Cash for keys” is just the industry term for paying someone to voluntarily vacate in exchange for money...no actual keys needed, or cash for that matter, if there’s something else of relative value available.
Most people will look at a bit of cash, think about the PITA a legal eviction on record will cause them going forward, and make the common sense choice. Sounds like your ex might not be one of those folks unfortunately.
She does not have keys, never has. I've made it very clear for the entire year that I do not want her here. I know this is a legal forum, but if you ignore the legal definition of tenancy without lease for a moment, she is a squatter and I am a basically a prisoner in my own home. I have gone so far as to put a deposit on an apartment so if necessary I can move out from under her and (quite unfortunately - nice guy) the landlord can have the police drag her out.
There is a long history of abuse by her that I don't want to get deeply into. I've been behind multiple locked doors that were kicked in, etc. With probably a dozen 911 calls logged over five or six incidents. The police are beyond zero help here even when I showed extremely violent video. The ada has no interest in prosecuting a woman even if you could find an officer to arrest.
You could take the evidence you have of abuse and go to the police department in person to file a report. If you were able to get a restraining order against her, she wouldn't be allowed to enter your home.
Are you in any physical danger? If so is there a possibility of getting a temporary order of protection/restraining order for the time it will take to get the eviction done? Obviously you shouldn’t try this under false pretenses but if there’s a genuine threat that you can prove through text messages or whatever then it may be something to consider.
My concern with storing her stuff is that last time I did this, after breaking back in, she never paid storage, didn't get her stuff and my credit took a pretty big hit.
She doesn't care about the long term effects of the eviction. Found out a lot about her after she moved in, sugar baby, hadn't worked in 15 years, etc. She's a parasite to every man she meets.
Please read what I have already stated. The police are of no help and neither is the DA's office. They have no interest at all in female on male domestic violence.
Pretty sure the entire police force has been here at one time or another. Had about a dozen in my home at once last year. It's the culture in this town.
I read it. Sometimes police officers say dumb things. It doesn't mean that the answer is correct, or that the answer will always be the same. Go to the station, be persistent, go up the chain of command.
Just need to get this woman out and keep her out without risk to myself (and ideally without me moving).
If she leaves a decent amount of personal stuff then she likely hasn't legally vacated. I wouldn't throw away her personal stuff. I would likely wait until the eviction is complete to change the locks. It is possible you may have store her property a little after the eviction.