This is a great question! I have lots to say that I can’t all fit here, but happy to answer more questions afterwards as need. Also, this is my first time answering a post here, so hopefully this is all within guidelines.
So, what is the basis of this? The Soviet Union invited intellectuals and workers from Black America, Africa and Asia to work and study there. Many famous Marxist and anticolonial figures went through KUTV, the Communist University of the Toilers of East which trained revolutionaries, including Ho Chi Minh, Deng Xiaoping, Manabendra Nath Roy, Harry Haywood… There were also exchange programs with other friendly countries (usually Third world or recently independent from colonial rule). Woman could and did attend University. Of course, this needs to be contextualized as part of the cultural front of the Cold War being waged between capitalist and social ideologies. The Soviet Union, as Monica Popescu (2010) points out, aimed to attract intellectuals disenfranchised with capitalistic cultural production in the name of creating an alternative aesthetic. In the Post-War years, the Soviet Union trained students from Africa, Latin America, Black America, and Asia for this purpose.
There is a very interesting Soviet comedy called Circus (1936), which is about an American circus performer who gives birth to a black child, and flees to the Soviet Union to escape the racist backlash. The final scene is this black child (held up as simba in the lion king) being passed between various ethnic groups showing demonstrating the harmony that exists between various races within the USSR.
To give some background information on the Soviet Union’s relationship with Black America: the Soviet Union initially seemed like a natural ally for Black America, and vice versa. While racism is hardwired into the foundations of America, the USSR had completely different founding myths. In its ideological conception as a multiethnic socialist state, it is internationally focused, with racism officially forbidden and socially taboo (regardless of the continuation of personal prejudice). It naturally seems to hold itself up a mirror to both colonialism and American racism. Maxim Matusevich writes in “Harlem Globetrotters: African-American Travelers in Stalin’s Soviet Union”, the Soviet Union saw Black visitors as natural allies, as American racism is part of its particular version of capitalist oppression.
1922 saw the Fourth Comintern Congress, which included Otto Huiswood as part of the CPUSA and famous Jamaican writer Claude McKay as a non-communist observer and participant. Additionally, this also led to Black American recruits to be trained as revolutionary organizers at the Stalin Communist University of the Toilers of the East. McKay also spoke with Trotsky on the “Negro Question”, detailed in A Long Way from Home, as well as published Negry v Amerike or Negroes in America, which served to influence Soviet engagement with Black American experiences. At the 6th International in 1926, the Comintern endorsed the Black Belt Thesis, self-determination for Black peoples in America. They also hired Black specialists, agriculturalists and engineers in the USSR that could not get jobs in America, and trained artists, filmmakers, and supported literary initiatives, being the main funder of the Afro-Asian Writers Association and permanent Bureau, the first conference of which DuBois attended in 1958 (Dubois travelled to the Soviet Union multiple times and wrote highly of it his whole life).
In general, visiting Black Americans had far more privileges than the average Soviet citizen, and far more freedom of movement. That Hughes manages to secure a travel permit to Soviet Central Asia is itself a sign of these special privileges, given that a travel permit was valid everywhere except the Central Asian Soviet Republics (one interesting side effect of this was that writers such as Dubois or Hughes didn't easily recognize the contradictions, exclusions and violence with the with Soviet Union, but this is another discussion). In his travelogue A Negro looks at Soviet Central Asia Hughes will comment extensively on the cotton production near Tashkent (modern day capital of Uzbekistan). The Soviet Union had invited Black agricultural specialists and engineers, a team that worked under specialist and KUTVA student (the University of the Toiler’s of the East), Oliver Golden. Golden had been unable to find specialist work in America, but the Soviet Union sought out skilled Black American labour. Golden was paid 700 US dollars a month. If anyone remembers the Soviet Union’s relationship to its farmers and peasants around this time, this is an enormous sum. It is also an enormously different experience to the ambivalent and often coercive relationship between agricultural producers and the Soviet state.
It's very important to note that this type of racism is also inextricably linked to the imperial revanchism and bitter grievances towards the "ungrateful" peoples who "did the Soviet Union dirty". In the oversimplified worldview of a casual imperialist / nostalgic Soviet patriot, USSR did its best to "uplift" its allied African countries (which has a lot of factual truth to it), and they squandered it all on internecine strife and corruption. This is often propped up as a cautionary tale about how blacks and Arabs are a lost cause in regards to embracing modern (i. e. Western) civilization, normalizing racism as a "common sense" worldview.