Monday, we turn our Floating Features attention to the continent of Africa What’s that African history question you’ve been dying to answer, but nobody seems to ask? Come share your answer here.
It’s another glorious day on the finest history subreddit with Ask in its name. I’ve got a fantastic number of threads to share with you, from across a staggering number of themes and fields. So pull up a chair, make yourself comfortable, and lets get reading. I’ve got another doozy of a list here, so you’ll have plenty of material.
Tuesday, Tuesday Trivia tackles sports history! (Or “history of sport,” if you are an academic...or a 19th century British croquet player, one supposes).
Our last Floating Feature was , and shows that the Meaning of Life is not 42, nor anything to do with Monty Python, but instead directly tied to AskHistorians!
The best way to start is with the usual weekly posts, but we also have several special features that are absolutely incredible. Check them out below, and don’t forget to upvote your favorite writers and thread!
The next feature will be tomorrow Monday the 26th. The theme is the History of Africa and I'm really excited for it. I'd _love_ to read more about anything African, so please, please come out and participate.
The fantastic It was a particularly good week, with some great discussion and even more ways to combat holocaust denial!
That’s it for this week. Huge thank you to the many flairs and non flairs who make my weekly reading so incredibly enjoyable. Enjoy the reading and I’ll see you next Sunday!
It’s in the Friday Free For All but I thought it was worth special mention. The question attracted a number of fascinating responses. Major props to /u/corruptrevolutionary for kicking off the topic. Not to mention the responses from /u/Platypuskeeper, /u/Valkine.
It’s part of the Thursday R&R theaad but I thought the question from /u/Liljendal deserves special attention. Check out The answer is YES! /u/itsallfolklore and /u/sunagainstgold can say more.
/u/AccidentallyLazy tackled a two month old question in [Richard J. Evans argument against Christopher R. Browning "Ordinary Men".
had many contributors. I’m going to call out some of the main ones but there’s plenty more. Don’t forget, this coming Monday will see the AMA part of the feature! Thanks to /u/JimeDorje, /u/Antiochene, /u/AlviseFalier.
/u/Platypuskeeper and /u/lycheesmakemehappy wrote Although I’ll be honest. If they did write their posts in Norse Runes or Ogham I’d be even more impressed.
OTOH the Viking fanboy and neo-pagan crowds _only_ seem to use the Elder Futhark since it's older and therefore 'better'. Which gets really weird then used for Old Norse due to the anachronisms of it. e.g. the nominative ending -az sound like in PG _kuningaz_ (king) became the 'palatal-R' sound as in ON _konungR_. The same rune ᛦ (yr) was used though, its sound value just changed. By the time the Icelanders wrote down sagas that sound had merged with the ordinary 'r' so it was _konungr_ and around the 12th c. the spelling changed to using the ᚱ-rune at the end. So your viking fan who wants a tattoo saying 'viking king' or some such looks up the Old Norse translation, which tends to mean Old Icelandic of the 12th and 13th centuries rather than the Viking Age runic language. So he ends up trying to approximate 13th century pronunciation with a 6th century futhark, and as a result uses quite different runes than would've been used in any era, so it's just weird and incomprehensible. /rant.
I can feel your pain. My buddy wants a Viking warrior tattoo and conscripted me to research 'a good one'. We've been having more or less this exact discussion.
That all sounds pretty neat! Do you have a recommended picture or website with the right runes? I'll google it, but most of the time I get new age stuff and even the normal looking ones tend to draw information from weird place.
I'm biased since it's the period I'm interested in, but I'd recommend the early Medieval runes. They have the _stingning_ (dots) that began to be added in the early 11th century to differentiate B/P, I/E, G/K, D/T, U/V and use it more consistently, but they also differentiate A/Æ ᛆ/ᛅand O/Ø ᚮ/ᚯ by whether it's long or short-twig. So it's not as phonetically ambiguous as the Younger Futhark and easier to read, but is largely 'backwards-compatible' with it since both variants were being used for sounds in the Viking Age.
The incompatible difference is that since the aforementioned palatal-R disappeared, that rune (ᛦ) was re-purposed for the 'y' sound. But as said, the palatal-R doesn't get so much love from the viking fans anyway.
from a reliable source ( _Runverket_ the Swedish government agency for runes. How's that for _Harry Potter?_ It's under the National Heritage Board. Runestone maintenance has recently been delegated to regional governments, though).
That chart includes basically all Medieval variants though; a simplified one where I removed the variants that are lesser-used/regional/late medieval/only used for transcribing Latin.
that I find a bit fun, found in a margin of a manuscript from a French monastery (BnF Grec 375 f1r) scrawled there by a Scandinavian monk back in the 1240s, showing off how to write Latin in runes (so not including þ, ø, æ). I suspect a Norwegian or Icelandic one, since the variant of using ᛋ and ᛍ for c and s rather than vice-versa seems specific to them.
When they wrote the letters in futhark-order (which was still done in the 13th c.) it was still the same as the Viking Age, because the stung and long/short-branch variants weren't included as separate runes. For instance on the , early 13th c. Which, it should be said, has a few transpositions and mistakes. It's also mirrored because they carved the inscription non-mirrored into the inside of the casting mould for the bell. (common for the era).
(it's a protective magical inscription, not uncommon on church bells of the period. There are also ones with Latin letters in alphabetical order. Contrary to common belief, there's not much to indicate runes were any more inherently magical than any other letters).
The experiment continues Below is a list of some interesting but overlooked question’s I’ve put aside throughout the week. Perhaps some wandering expert will stumble upon us and take interest. If anyone else has some questions or answers they feel deserve some love, then feel free to post them up.
Thank you for your kind words and mentions! It might looks little but things like this is what gives me validation and confirmation that what i'm writing is actually up to standards .
There’s a bit of information there, but I’d be interested in a more in depth right up in and I’m sure /u/PopCultureNerd would appreciate it to.
I chipped in to help /u/Real_Carl_Ramirez as best I could with I think we’d both still like to hear about plants though!