If we try to generalize the equipment they used broadly, many of them used standardized helmets (which we sometimes associate with Germanic tribes but were actually Roman in origin), chainmail armor and/or lammelar (especially later) and still the recognizable Roman shields from the 3th-5th century (cf Notitia Dignitatum). Their weapons were essentially: long-ish swords, spears, sometimes bows, throwing darts.
So let's start with the first problem (one I routinely have to rectify): the concept of foederati and "barbarian mercenaries.".
Putting these helmets into context is a real challenge. The Baldenheim-type helmets certainly were utilized extensively by officers and possibly some high-ranking infantry (like the auxilia palatina regiments or the guard units like the Excubitores). However, there is clearly a gap in knowledge, as the earlier Roman ridge helmets worn by every Roman soldier (from the frontier guardsmen called limitanei to the highest ranking officers and emperor) were ALL silvered or gilded (barring two examples of dubious provenance from the Christie's Auction House). So were the Baldenheim-type helmets in widespread use by every infantryman? It doesn't seem so, but they may have been in wider use than we think. Our in art belongs to a cavalryman, and many weapons burials with these helmets include horse burials, so it's possible that highly-paid cavalrymen were using them in large numbers, but that's just a hypothesis.
The problem is people have this idea that Germanic troops who served in the Roman army were simply paid money and expected to show up with their own equipment, were given no training, were only marginally under Roman authority, and were more akin to modern mercenary groups. None of that is fundamentally true.
Weapons are also not that well evidenced. Our best evidence points towards the use of Asiatic-type spathae, derived from Hunnic swords, and the Strategikon mentions "Herulian Swords" which could refer to either Asiatic-type or Germanic-style swords, such . Finds of swords from within the empire dating to the 6th century are woefully lacking, sadly. Alongside swords, proto-sabers were coming into use, derived from the introduced by the Huns in the 4th-5th centuries. The Romans termed this a Paramerion, and you can get a rough idea of how they evolved to Sabres (and later Shamshirs) from . Maces were also in use, and while I don't have a 6th century one to show, .
Our best evidence for standardization comes from helmets, of which there are three dominant forms in the 6th century: the bandhelm, lamellenhelm, and spangenhelm. These are fundamentally similar in construction, being made of multiple parts riveted together, and categorized as "segmental helmets" While lamellenhelme (lamellar helmets) were not exclusive to the Roman army, the true spangenhelm was, along with a helmet type known as the Narona-type bandhelm (after its findspot, Narona a.k.a. Sveti Vid). The is relatively easy to identify - it always has a single nape-to-nose band riveted on in groups of three, forming a cintimani (three pearls in a triangle) pattern with the rivet heads. It is definitively Roman, and was probably the most common helmet in the army alongside the Leiden-type spangenhelm. The 6th-8th centuries saw the only period where true spangenhelms (classified by being constructed of "straps" that meet at the top and are joined by a finial) are in use, and two types are Roman. The is identified as being of a four or six part iron bowl with cheekpieces and a dished-shaped finial. Like the Narona-type, these are probably average soldiers' helmets. Both of these helmet types are conclusively dated, with the examples from Narona dating to between 510-550 (more or less), and the later examples from Novae and Jerusalem date to 586 and 614, respectively.
Foederati were men who were enrolled under the foedus, which by the 6th century had definitively taken the form of the granting of the rights to collect pay via allotments of taxable income inside Roman territory in exchange for administrative or military service. This is best exemplified in the law codes of the Visigoths, Burgundians, and Ostrogoths. In fact the entire Ostrogothic military effectively worked on this premise, more or less, at least, although in the post-Roman successor kingdoms you see a lot of men granted the rights to this income (called hospitalitas) push to claim the land itself, not just the fraction of income they got from the taxable portions of the land. Cassiodorus' variae is a big source of evidence on this happening in Ostrogothic Italy. In fact, many of these men would have been Romans, since Romans composed the majority of the local population in the regions these barbarian groups were "settled.".
The words here are Zostarion (Gothic Tunic) and Armelausion (short ones split up the sides). The Zostarion was probably a kaftan, deriving from the word zosta which means belt, and therefore is the "belted-closed tunic" since didn't have buttons. The Armelausion is the new term for the "arming tunic," as mentioned by Isidore of Seville (who confuses it with the hooded mantle above, called a gounion or noveronikon, from arabic gonakka, which eventually evolves into the medieval knight's surcoat.).
Csiky, Gergely. Avar Age Polearms and Edged Weapons: Classification, Typology, Chronology, and Technology. Leiden: Brill, 2015.
Curta, Florin and Gandila, Andre. "Sixth Century Fibulae with Bent Stem." Peuce 11 (2013): 101-176.
D'Amato, Raffaele and Pflaum, Veronika. "Two Suits of Lamellar Armour from Kranj (Carnium), Slovenia, in Light of the Archaeological Analogies, Written Sources, and Contemporary Iconography." In Acta Militaria Mediaevalia 15 (2019): 7-50.
By the 6th century, the organization of the foederati seems to have been in professional regiments, and may have already been in the 5th century. These men were paid a different way, and were largely barbarus or semibarbarus in origin, but were recruited, trained, and supplied like other Roman military units. By the late 6th century, the term had been integrated into Roman military language to the point where simply referred to the middle formation of the battle line, which makes it clear that they were seen as part of the professional army.
There was also another type of foederati which stemmed from men enrolled via treaties with groups outside the empire, where these men simply received their pay the same way as any other Roman soldier, rather than through hospitalitas.
The other forms of military service by "foreigners" was in the form of bucellarii or symmachi, the former of which can be thought of as mercenaries, and the latter of which can refer to mercenaries but usually means allies.
Bucellarii were men recruited into the private retainer of a high-ranking general, a practice which came in during the late 4th century, and their size had to be legally capped during the reign of Honorius since some prominent Roman generals (magistri militum) were recruiting large bodies of private soldiers. Bucellarii (meaning "hardtack-eaters") were supplied and paid by whomever they were loyal to, with men like Aspar or Belisarius (and probably Stilicho and Aetius too) having small armies of around 2,000 to 4,000 men personally on their payroll. They didn't have to be foreign though - Romans served as bucellarii just as often as Goths, Alans, or Huns. Eventually, in 7th century, these would all be banned and formalized as a guard unit, and eventually fell out of use entirely.
The Roman army was supplied with semi-standardized equipment via the military fabricae, which were located at frontier fortresses and in major cities at reasonable distances from the border. There's some evidence that local workshops in regimental garrisons persisted as well, particularly in Britain (until the mid-5th century of course) and Egypt. During the fourth century, standardization and supply via the fabricae had increased, as evidenced by the variation in helmet decoration on the large sample of 3rd-5th century Roman ridge helmets we have. By the 6th century, arms were much more standardized, as evidenced in the archaeology of the equipment we have.
Another type of helmet introduced in this period was the monopartite hemispherical or conical helmet, which would later become the Norman conical helmet. These helmets belonging to the Batumi-type () were invented in the Caucasus, superceding older Celtic and Thracian one-piece conical helmets still in use in the Principate Roman army. They are first definitively evidenced alongside lamellar helmets, and also pop up in Turkey.
As mentioned, lamellar helmets from the Roman arms manufacturing center (fabrica) at Stara Zagora were in use as well.
However, the most iconic helmets of this period are the so-called "Baldenheims," or more accurately Baldenheim-type spangenhelme (). Despite being associated with Germanic warlords, every single one of these helmets excepting four from Italy were produced by the Romans in Constantinople or Antioch (as evidenced by their art style and the grave contexts). They were issued to men serving in the Roman army, as well as given as gifts to Germanic and Steppe warlords, where they can be found ranging as far as France to the Pontic Steppes. The earliest one is from Gultlingen, dated to about 470-510 AD, and the latest are from the first half of the 7th century, from the Avar destruction layer at Herakleia Lynkestis.
Along side these, late Roman ridge helmets may have remained in use, as evidenced by which look like Ridge helmets, but art is difficult to interpret and it's uncertain if they were for sure. Some derivative was certainly hanging around in Europe, as a derived form of ridge helmet is known from Bojna, Gnezdovo, and Prague and dates to about 850-950 AD.
But we have good evidence for standardization and uniquely Roman styles of helmet in the 6th century AD.