Welcome to the fourteenth installment of ‘’, our Spring 2020 Floating Feature and Flair Drive Series. This series it intended to shine a light on people often left out of the ‘standard’ histories, and give voice to the subalterns of history.
Today’s theme is Resistance and Anti-Colonial Histories, and we welcome anyone and everyone to share histories that fit the theme. Stories of triumph or tragedy, or cheerful or sad, all are welcome.
All these things come together in the events surrounding Easter 1612. I already quoted the indigenous scholar Chimalpahin above, and he has a great account of this in his Diario. One interesting part about it is to have the rare perspective of a learned native chronicler on these events, quite different from a probably more biased Spanish account.
As is the case with previous , there is relaxed moderation here to allow more scope for speculation and general chat than there would be in a usual thread! But with that in mind, we of course expect that anyone who wishes to contribute will do so politely and in good faith.
The topic makes me wonder what resistance can mean in a colonial context - where usually the local economy is tied for export to the metropole. And where colonial elites tend to justify their rule by alluding to and legitimizig their own supposed superiority, in one way or the other.
Coming up next in the culmination of the series with on June 15th, which turns the tables and instead highlights the historians themselves, inviting contributions from all who identify as a member of a marginalized group or minority. Make sure to mark it on your calendar!
Martínez, María Elena. "The Black Blood of New Spain: Limpieza de Sangre, Racial Violence, and Gendered Power in Early Colonial Mexico." The William and Mary Quarterly 61, no. 3 (2004): 479-520.
Davidson, David M. "Negro Slave Control and Resistance in Colonial Mexico, 1519-1650." Hispanic American Historical Review 46, no. 3 (1966): 235-53.
Glad it was interesting, and thanks for the additional readings! Really enjoyed reading your answer here.
Floating Features are intended to allow users to contribute their own original work. If you are interested in reading recommendations, , or else limit them to follow-up questions to posted content. Similarly, please do not post top-level questions. This is not an AMA with panelists standing by to respond. Such questions ought to be submitted as normal questions in the subreddit.
What form of resistance could have more consequence, active warfare/uprisings or less obvious, everyday forms of resistance. I'm also wondering if „resistance“ is so helpful for a colonial situation like that in Mexico at all – I've found other concepts like „negotiations“ between different groups sometimes more helpful in this context. At the same time I find it necessary to stress that colonial rule - no matter how different - is always upheld through some form of violence, be it military, psychological or through various types of social hierarchies.
This seems like a fitting moment to dust off my answer on a supposed African uprising in Mexico City that was brutally beaten down by the Spanish colonial administration. But first...
This is a story I've gone back and forth about posting for a couple years. It's interesting as a counternarrative to the inevitability of the Spanish conquest and ties into quite a long history of Hopi anticolonialism, but at the same time also a story no one is proud of. Anyone interested in context from a native perspective, I recommend Lomatumay'ma (1993) and Malotki et al. (2002).
Guitar, Lynne. "Boiling it Down: Slavery on the First Commercial Sugarcane Ingenios in the Americas (Hispaniola, 1530-45)." In Slaves, Subjects, and Subversives: Blacks in Colonial Latin America, edited by Jane G. Landers and Barry Robinson, 39-82. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press, 2006.
Mexico City was the political and administrative capital of New Spain. The relative weakness of many New Spanish viceroy during the 17th century was one influence on the two major uprisings that took place there. Adding to this was the small proportion of Spanish in comparison with indigenous and mixed-race population in the city – already by the late 16th century people of African descent heavily outnumbered Spaniards.
Fears by the Spanish elites of an African uprising were connected to these demographics, and would „cook over“ periodically in persecution of Africans or people of African descent. María Elena Martínez has argued that such fears were connected to the Iberian medieval importance of lineage concepts – transformed into the Spanish American casta system. This meant that such anxieties were often also expressed in gendered terms, e.g. fears of rapes of European women by African men.
Just before Easter, Chimalpahin describes stricter laws against African and mulatto people coming into place: incl. laws against them carrying weapons, and that slave-owners could now hold no more than 2 African slaves each. He then recounts the first rumours for Palm Sunday, April 15, 1612 (I'm using the English translation of the Nahuatl original here):
Africans in Mexico and other parts of Spanish America were often slaves, but mostly worked in households or other subservient occupations; and could in special cases buy their freedom. So quite a different form of slavery from that in the Carribean or the later U.S. where we of course have even stronger fears of slave revolts.
From here Chimalpahin recounts how: On Tuesday the Spanish stationed guards on all highways and canals leading to the capital city (which was then still on a lake), because it was said that „renegade blacks“ were coming ashore from the harbor cities Acapulco and Veracruz. On Wednesday noone slept out of fear, but.
We get here a nice example of a native writer kind of mocking the Spanish for their fears. The „ didn't appear as such great warriors“ part even seems to hark back to the conquest period. Chimalpahin has left us the largest and most important corpus of any known author in Nahuatl, but none if it was published in his own time, so he had some leeway for such criticism.
Tying to what I mentioned before about gendered fears, it was also reported that the rebels planned to kill older women but take younger women and even nuns as wives. They would have then killed children begot of them, in case these mixed children would rise up against their fathers. So we get here some very complex fears and planning (by the Spanish) regarding racial relations, and how these would have played out in case of a slave revolt.
On Wednesday (one day before the supposed revolt) the Spanish acted and hanged 28 black men and 7 black women, for „intending to rebel and kill their Spanish masters“. Chimalpahin then tells us in some detail about what the Spanish investigations reported. The short version: That the Africans/mulattoes planned to kill all their master; make a king and queen (her for some reason called Isabel) of their own; and distribute all the alteptl or city-states among them, making the native groups their vassals.
After the executions a few of the hanged persons were displayed on roads leading to Mexico City. This horrible treatment supposedly serving as deterrance for any further (imagined?) revolts. Those who had not been hanged were to by judged by the Spanish king a few weeks later. Many of these Spanish fears were also present in a real and major uprising in Mexico City a few decades later.
While the native historian does not judge the event directly I think the quotes do show his own perspective well: first a mocking of the Spanish fears of an African uprising as exaggerated. And second, in my view, a certain empathy with the Africans can be read between the lines. Chimalpahin goes into great detail on the brutal punishments, making it appear that he did not approve of this treatment of an imagined uprising.
After all, both Africans and Aztecs were similarly discriminated against through the colonial system on a daily basis, and had an abundance of reasons for emphasising and collaborating with one another. These discriminations are very much ongoing and crucially continue to be contested by many indigenous and afro-latinx groups.
- For Africans in Spanish America the chapter "Black Communities" in Restall & Lane's Latin America in colonial times is a great overview. For a nice bibliography on this big topic, see article.
This was not the first African/Black uprising or suspected uprising in Mexico City. The first occurred in 1537 and followed a similar pattern as the 1612 case. In late 1608 and early 1609 a series of black gatherings which included the crowning of a black 'king' raised authorities' suspicions but did not generate the same crack down as in 1612.
I also mentioned María Martínez, drew on her great book Genealogical Fictions for this. Good point about the other African uprisings - in addition to the various other big uprisings in Mexico City (eg. 1624, 1692) that I talk a bit more about in the answer I linked above. Another article on this I liked is . She looks at some very early portrayals of Africans in Nahua codices, including one of the 1537 incident, as a different perspective from European portrayals.
It's from Ethnohistory, they made some of 2019's most popular articles available for free. In case you're interested here's the list:
Comments on Louise M. Burkhart’s “The Solar Christ in Nahuatl Doctrinal Texts of Early Colonial Mexico”.
- Ch’orti’, Lenca, and Pipil: An Onomastic Approach to Redefining the Sixteenth-Century Southeastern Maya Frontier.
“As if His Heart Died”: A Reinterpretation of Moteuczoma’s Cowardice in the Conquest History of the Florentine Codex.
Missionaries had not forgotten about the village either, and in the spring of 1700, they returned to rebuild. But not only did they rebuild the church, but also brand new barracks and stables.