No the eviction court order was just a cancelation of residency, they are now directly suing me for months of rent after the eviction. Claiming non-payment of rent was the reason for the eviction, rather then the incident that happened. I hope this makes sense please comment if not.
What do you mean by you left before your 30 days were up? I’ve no timed that a lot of posters here don’t understand what an aviation is, so they call every termination of tenancy an eviction.
I stopped paying rent because she posted an eviction notice on my door and told me to get out. Even after explaining what happened she refused to take me off of 'evicted status' so i left before my 30 days was up.
Here is my guess as to what happened. You were served a 30-day notice of non-renewal from the landlord. This is NOT an eviction, which is a court process. You were mad that you got notice to move, so you stopped paying rent and turned in keys. You still owe rent through this notice period though , and your landlord can sue you for it.
Were you in the middle of the lease when you were given notice, or were you on a month-to-month agreement?
I wasn't mad that i got a notice to move at all, i was actually very sad as this was my first apartment that I've gotten on my own. Which is why i tried a number of times to come to an understanding with my landlord, as well as having a third party (a family member) speak on my behalf but she was set on wanting me to leave. I was gone before the notice period was up I even have a lease from the apartment i rented after to prove it. To answer your other question yes i was in the middle of the lease when i received this notice.
However, it sounds like you voluntarily moved, and if you were in the middle of the lease you would still owe rent, generally until the apartment is re-rented or the lease term is up, which ever comes first. In some states, the landlord has a duty to mitigate damages by trying to find a new tenant.
Your story is a little rambling, but I think your defense is that the landlord illegally evicted you and that you paid rent for all months up until you were illegally evicted. Try not to ramble and just answer the questions that are asked.
Ok thank you! That helps a ton, do you know of anything i can quote? I've been looking in different law books, and websites for a passage or something that directly states I don't owe them anything. Everything i've found is pre-eviction, before it even makes it to court or during the trial itself.
You need to work on creating a coherent narrative of events, with proper terminology. What was the exact nature of the notice given by your landlord? If you were in the middle of the lease, your landlord couldn’t terminate your tenancy without going to court. Were you served with papers by the court? Did you have a hearing?
To show what? You should look at your eviction order. It should be spelled out there but you don't pay rent for time after an eviction. You gave the property back like they asked. So they can rent it again. You can still owe for damages though. Property damage that is.
The incident where they tried to break in was written on the original notice, which is why I think it's pretty relevant. Because now it's listed as 'non-payment of rent' rather then whatever they decided to list the incident as on that original notice.