Etymology can be a very useful historical tool for investigating phenomena that have no written history, often in parallel with archaeology. For example, we don't have many early medieval texts from or about Finland, but there's a number of places on early maps with names such as Orjasaari that mean something like "slave island." Based on the geography of these locations and larger patterns in medieval northern history and archaeology, it seems likely that these were places for trading slaves. In contrast, place names in Norway that include a "slave" element are often paired with elements referring to agriculture, such as Trælaker, or "slave acres," which suggests that slaves were here being used for labor rather than as trade commodities.
One particular problem I'm trying to work through right now is the etymology for a common Norse (Viking Age) term for slave-girl: . Most sources typically present this as either a straightforward derivation from an older Germanic word ambahta-, or more perplexingly, as a borrowing from Latin ambactus. The problem is, the Germanic word was itself borrowed from an even older Celtic term: . In Celtic, this seems to have meant a high-ranking retainer. When it initially got borrowed into Latin, via none other than Caesar's Gallic Wars, it carried a similar meaning that suggested a person was part of a chieftain's warrior entourage. From either of these sources, it got borrowed into early medieval Germanic dialects, and its modern descendants typically retain a high-status meaning, such as Amtmann in German or ambassador in English.
How, then, did a word that meant a (typically male) elite vassal get turned into a Norse word for slave girl? Again, I think our best answers can be found by looking for broader patterns. This is a high-status term, so it probably moved from Celtic or a neighboring Germanic language into Old Norse among high-status speakers. Early medieval marriage was typically virilocal, that is, the man stayed in place and the woman moved to live with him. When people permanently crossed linguistic and cultural boundaries, then, those people were often women marrying into elite households. Perhaps one such woman, chaffing at an inhospitable Scandinavian lifestyle and maybe an abusive husband, proclaimed herself an ambaxtos who deserved better. Perhaps her neighbors, hearing this slovenly foreign concubine call herself an ambátt, adopted the term and began to use it for other women got brought in from abroad and treated poorly, even if they had been princesses back home.
Could it be that both have the same etymological root but different meaning, as in Germanic people would mean “a slave girl that is driven around”, whereas others would mean “high ranking person driving along with the king”?
Nevertheless I would assume that unless we find out how and when the meaning of the word changed, etymology is useful in making theories and testing them out based on other finds.
It's hypothetical, of course, but at least it's a conjecture that fits our evidence. Remarkably, it's also paralleled by the later , a story which features an Irish princess who was taken captive and sold as an ambátt to an Icelandic farmer in the 900s. Coincidence? Maybe so, but etymology helps us dig into some of the factors at stake and recover some of the deep historical processes not otherwise preserved in textual accounts.