You've gone completely off the rails here and are in the historical-linguistics ditch. Etruscan words are very rare, especially by the time of Varro, and would make more sense further north. And Phoenician?
I see nothing in the Latin of dē rē rūsticā 1.10 about "vor" meaning 100 or "sum" meaning foot. Wherever you got that part is the problem. It's not in the original source, and the etymology of vorsus as a unit of agricultural measurement is not in any way a mystery.
vorsum is just a pronunciation variant of versum, the Latin accusative singular masculine/neuter singular perfect passive participle of vertō, vertere, vertī, versum "to turn, pivot". In Italic languages there was a dual pronunciation of the vowel in the stem oscillating between "e" and "o," especially in the perfect system. So, in Latin, from vertere "to turn" comes the perfect passive participle variant vorsus, a, um "turned," and from there the 4th-declension noun vorsus, vorsūs, m. "furrow, the place where the plough turned around" and thence a unit of measure to delineate the edges of an ager, which was prevalent in Campania for whatever reason. It doesn't even have to be another Italic language at work here, as everything is perfectly explainable in Latin only. De Vaan (Etymological Dictionary of Latin and Other Italic Languages) notes that the ver/vor oscillation between present system and perfect participle seems to go back to Proto-Italic, but that in Latin in general, after 200 BCE, there is a general shift from vo- to ve-. We find Latin examples of both variations: vertex, verticis "whirlpool" and the more familiar modern variant vortex, vorticis, e.g.. In Oscan we find, as an epithet of Jupiter, wersorei ("he who averts"), and in Umbrian, participles like vurtus or kuvertu "turned, averted". Proto-Indo-European uert-e/o "to turn.".
Well, then, I think we've found your problem. What in the world is that? There are free online translations of de re Rustica in English. Or were you looking for a Russian translation?
Nam in Hispania ulteriore metiuntur iugis, in Campania versibus, apud nos in agro Romano ac Latino iugeris. Iugum vocant, quod iuncti boves uno die exarare possint. Versum dicunt centum pedes quoquo versum quadratum. Iugerum, quod quadratos duos actus habeat.
> For in Further Spain they measure [land] with the iugum, in Campania they measure with the versus, in our parts, in the Roman fields and in Latium, they use the iugerum. They [in Spain] call it a iugum because yoked (iuncti) oxen are able to plow it up in one day. As for the versus, they say it is a "turned [measure]" of/for/at 100 feet (centum pedes), squared. The iugerum is what has two actus, squared.
This pdf presents a lot of evidence, but I don't feel qualified to really dig in to it. You might post this in /r/linguistics and see if an historical linguist with some experience in Etruscan language studies has anything interesting to say.
Well, what I linked is, as far as I know, a peer-reviewed paper arguing that Northeast Caucasian languages and the Tyrrhenian languages (including Etruscan) are distantly related. When they claimed, based on the ancient gloss "vorsum"="centum pedes" that "vor" was the Etruscan word for 100, I was slightly skeptical: none of the sources claimed that word was specifically Etruscan.
OK, the text is written by Ed Robertson and it is called "Etruscan’s genealogical linguistic relationship with Nakh-Daghestanian: a preliminary evaluation".
But I am unable to find any information at all about who Ed Robertson is, where he got his education, where he works/teaches, and also I cannot find any information about where this item was published (and therefore peer-reviewed). Nowhere on google can I find an actual citation to this in a journal. I personally am a bit suspicious of this until I could learn more about those things. In the pdf itself, his discussion of "vorsum" is suspect at best, based on the actual passage(s) from de re Rustica. He seems to be talking about ancient glosses (that is, margin notes on the actual text), but I am unable to follow up on that without a trip to a real library. There is also the issue that Varro clearly states that the term was in Campania, not Etruria, and there is not really a very compelling explanation for why a random Etruscan word would be used in Campania for something as critical and basic as a unit of land measure. At the same time, my own trusted and vetted source, de Vaan, barely talks about vorsus at all.
I don't know what to say about that paper. I mean, it is definitely not following the established linguistic methodology. It is comparing the Etruscan language with modern-day Northeast-Caucasian languages (which are rather different languages), rather than with Proto-Northeast-Caucasian. It is undeniable that this drastically increases the probability of chance resemblence. Furthermore, the supposed proto-language, from which both Proto-Northeast-Caucasian and Etruscan were derived, did not have a word for "five" (as the Etruscan word for "five" supposedly comes from the word for "hand"), nor for eight (since Etruscan for "eight" is supposedly "three over five"), but it somehow magically had a word for one hundred. Seems rather implausible to me. I mean, it seems less absurd than the claim that Etruscan is an Indo-European language, but it still seems improbable. At least to me, and I am not an expert in the field.