The first is tax audits, as you mentioned. If you've got good receipts for the final payments to the vendors, and for the expense reimbursements, the IRS is likely to be satisfied, but if your records are lacking, those payments may be assessed as income for you, and your taxes adjusted accordingly. So, make sure you keep the receipts from the farmers on file.
Thank you! I have all the receipts. And I might have worded the post vaguely because I was in a rush but the checks are drawn from the company account, not my personal account.
The third is that ten thousand dollars in "petty cash" is indistinguishable from embezzlement. If nothing else, your employer should be recording those expenses as payments to vendors, not as petty cash, so that it can be accounted for properly. If the company hires an auditor to review its own books, then you may find yourself in hot water under the theory that you've been pocketing some or all of that money. Again, you have a legitimate explanation, but I hope you also have a paper trail.
The second is that this stinks of structuring. You have a legitimate explanation for it, but from the bank's point of view, if you're regularly depositing just short of $10,000, it seems like you might be trying to deposit a larger amount while avoiding the cash transaction reporting threshold. Making that attempt is illegal. Structuring is a crime, so there's a risk of a criminal investigation.
Ideally, they should be disbursing cash to you for those transactions, rather than reimbursing you after the fact - there's no reason you should be carrying five figures of operating costs out of your personal funds.
I'm still stunned that you're willing to carry five figures of risk for your employer, as you'll be left holding the bag if your employer refuses to reimburse you (or, say, goes bust), but ultimately that's a strategy decision more than a legal one. You're not breaking any laws that I can see, but this is a mess waiting to happen, and I'd encourage you to renegotiate the boundaries of that relationship.
Haha when I told my friends about this they asked if I was laundering money. It’s a 100% legit company. I have my own office and work with approximately 30 other employees.
The business is real and normal right? Like you’ve met your boss IRL and seen that they actually do business? The check cashing thing sounds extremely suspect, like the fake admin job scams. Just want to make sure!
Oh I should clarify. It’s their funds. I write the checks out of the company account and categorize it as “petty cash”. I also take it to their bank to cash it, it doesn’t touch my personal banking account at all.
I don't think OP is waiting to be reimbursed. OP is using a business check drawn on the business account to obtain cash to pay a cash only vendor. The risk is that OP gets robbed of $10k in cash on the way to the farmers market, but they're not personally trying to float the money from their personal funds.
It sounds like this business is basically making OP draw a check from the business's bank account to make cash payments to vendors instead of having an actual cash management system for dealing with cash-only vendors. I don't think there's anything illegal about this, but I'm sure their accountant hates it.
My biggest worry would be walking around with $10k in cash after making the withdrawal without having any kind of security in place in case OP gets robbed.
What would a cash management system for cash only vendors look like..? I’ve never dealt with so many cash transactions before. I’m just really concerned by the fact that my social security number is affiliated with all of these checks. I’d love to learn more about possibly implementing a cash management system if you don’t mind pointing me in the right direction!
I think what OP is saying is that they have signing authority to disburse 10k in petty cash, or that someone with that authority is approving those cheques.