Maybe. Where do you guys live? How long ago did this all take place? Whose name was on the car? Did the engine fail due to anything specific your stepdad did? Was regular maintenance performed on the car?
Assuming you weren't outside the statute of limitations anyway. In LA, the SoL on most civil actions is 1-3 years.
New Orleans, LA. I bought the car in 2013. It’s been so long I can’t remember if the car was in my name or his, most likely his. He was a pretty reckless driver but I’m unaware of anything specific. I do know however there was little to no maintenance performed on the vehicle.
It would be really impractical to try and sue him now when so much of this is "I don't remember anymore". You'd have to somehow show that he either didn't use the car with permission, or that he damaged it and it was just duty to maintain it - and if his name was on the title, that would make it even more difficult.
You could talk to a lawyer if you like (they'd be able to get more detailed, specific information from you) but chances are it's just been too long.
No, I frequently told him he could not drive it and that it should stay parked until I get my license. (I also did not plan on waiting as long as I did to get my license when I purchased the vehicle).
Then you may have a case but you'll have to prove he caused the damage beyond normal wear and tear due to his negligence and since you don't have the car anymore that may be difficult since you can't take it somewhere to be inspected but a car going from $16k to $500 in a few years is not normal. Your problem will be proving it but your testimony is evidence and will be his. So a civil claims cause would come down to who the judge believes.
So if your want to proceed you can file in small claims yourself which is going to be capped at $3k-$5k depending on jurisdiction or you can go get a free or inexpensive consult with a lawyer and see what they think. If I were you I'd probably try to find a free consult or two and see what lawyers think about the case even if you ultimately decide to go the small claims route.