Apart the examples you’ve shared, are there texts between you and your former assistant principal that “the authorities,” should not see for some reason?
I don’t believe there are I was just told that the authorities were involved either way, I just didn’t expect that the authorities would be involved because I didn’t believe anything serious happened. I just assumed it was because we were texting when I’m a minor maybe and he’s an adult? He’s still an assistant principal though.
But there are rules in virtually every school system about appropriate boundaries between the adults and the minor students. No criminal law forbids an assistant principal texting a student, declaring the student his best friend, and avowing his personal care and concern.
But that’s the sort of emotional intimacy that schools forbid because it has many potential opportunities for disaster. Even setting aside the concerns that the adult making these declarations is grooming the child for transitioning that emotional intimacy into illegal physical intimacy, there are concerns about creating emotional dependence. It’s not long-term healthy, and it’s not the kind of role an adult staffer should foster with a minor child.
If you’re seeing a counselor, I ask you to consider sharing the texts and the situation with that counselor.
And adding to my disquiet is this business of “text me from this number.” Any time interaction needs to be kept secret, the odds that it’s improper skyrocket.
Thank you for the explanation, I just wish I didn’t feel like this is my fault because I kept texting him and I just appreciated everything he’s done for me. He probably dislikes me now but that is something that I have to understand. I understand and respect the school rules, I just wish I wouldn’t have appreciated his support so much.
Keep in mind that blowing hot and cold is something that abusers often do, so that you are put in the position of trying to win back their affection. I am especially concerned that he told you that you have "drugged up thoughts". That's mean and not something an adult who genuinely wants to support a child would say. There's a reason these kinds of interactions are considered inappropriate, and there are a lot of red flags here. If nothing happens with the authorities, please think very carefully before you let things go back to the way they were.
So you ask what might happen. The answer is that he could lose his job, or be reprimanded, for these text interactions.
To the contrary, none of this is your fault, and it’s a good example of why these rules exist even when there’s nothing but good intentions on the part of the adult: they want to help, and truly care, but they just can’t serve in the role of best friend.