I was rewatching the Rocky Horror Picture Show today with my wife and some friends, and I noticed that the liquid in Rocky's vat was rainbow coloured. Now, the movie is filled with queer themes and symbols (in the same scene, for instance, Frank N. Furter has a pink triangle on his lab gown), but, I thought the Pride Flag wasn't invented until 1978, while the movie had been filmed in 1974 and released in 1975 (no idea if there were rainbows in the 1973 stage musical), so that seems anachronistic to me.
Were rainbows already a queer symbol before the Pride Flag came about? If so, since when, and how did that come to be? Or is it mere coincidence?
Robie, David. Blood on Their Banner: Nationalist Struggles in the South Pacific. London: Zed Books, 1989.
Shankman, Paul. Migration and Underdevelopment: The Case of Western Samoa. Boulder, Colorado: Westview Press, 1976.
- Daniel Grauss, ‘UNTEA and West Papua New Guinea’ (2005) Max Planck Yearbook of United Nations Law Online 97.
The USA had a colonial empire (Philippines, arguably Hawaii etc) but was itself a state that broke off from a colonial empire, having previously been a set of British colonies.
Are there any other examples of "second order" colonial empires where a colony gained independence and founded its own overseas colonies?
For instance, after the First World War Australia assumed control over the New Guinea territories of Germany as well as its claim to the Bismarck archipelago, while New Zealand became the administrator of Samoa. To this, we could also add Nauru which fell under the British Flag but was effectively run by the British Phosphate Commission-- a nationalized mining company (formerly Pacific Phosphate Company) jointly governed by Australia, Great Britain, and New Zealand.
While those were technically League of Nations Mandates and not territorial claims, they were all Class C mandates which meant that independence was to be held off for an indeterminate period of time and that the territories were best ruled directly as integrated parts of the nation's territorial claims/jurisdiction. For people living in these territories, the effect was often greater colonial meddling and control-- Germany had been distant and exercised only limited authority across much of its Pacific holdings-- New Zealand and Australia were much closer at hand and therefore took a more active role.
The other Pacific example that comes to mind is the annexation of Rapa Nui (Easter Island) by Chile in 1888. The island was effectively a naval colony/station until the 1960s, though it remained an important Cold War outpost and potential emergency landing/refueling station for long-range bombers or the space shuttle.
South Africa was given control of the Mandatory Territory of South-West Africa (previously German Südwestafrika, and now Namibia) following WWI. Jan Smuts, the South African stateman and general who first proposed the mandate system had intended mandates to exist for Eastern Europe and the Middel East not for the ‘barbarians of the Pacific and Africa. Smuts instead intended the German Colonial Possessions to be annexed, with South Africa fully annexing Namibia. When the Mandate System was instead rolled out for the German colonies in Afirca, South Africa took the C-Class mandate for Namibia (technically it was accepted on their behalf by Britain). But in reality they treated it as a colonial annex.(Para 52, South Africa would resist giving up the territory in the 1960s and 1970s despite it’s mandate being revoked and the International Court of Justice ruling it an illegal occupation. (Nele Matz , ‘Civilization and the Mandate System under the League of Nations as Origin of Trusteeship’.
I also want to make a soft claim for Indonesia in West Papua. Both Indonesia and West Papua were Colonial possessions of the Dutch as the Dutch East Indies. However when Indonesia became independent in 1949, West Papua was retained as the ‘Netherlands New Guinea’. Various back and forth’s occurred before Indonesia took administrative control of the region in 1962. In 1969 there was an ‘Act of Free Choice’ vote in West Papua that was to decide West Papua’s ultimate fate as either independent or integrated into Indonesia. A wildly unbalanced vote took place of only 1000 voters (out of 1 million inhabitants) hand-picked by the Indonesians, and unsurprisingly voted to integrate. Now this vote was recognised as legitimate by the UN who doesn’t recognise it as an ongoing colony, but despite this, a case can be made that Indoneisa has been a colonial administrator of West Papua since the 60s. This is however a political assessment, not a legal assessment.
-John Saltford, ‘The United Nations and the Indonesian Takeover of West Papua, 1962-1969: The Anatomy of a Betrayal’ 2003 (Taylor and Francis).
-Valmaine Toki, ‘Decolonization and the Right of Self-Determination for the Pacific’ in Austin Sarat (ed) Studies in Law Politics, and Society (Emerald Publishing Limited, 2016).