Why would they charge $500? Customs duties for Camera lenses should fall under the , Item 9002.11.90 "Lenses, prisms, mirrors and other optical elements, of any material, mounted, being parts of or fittings for instruments or apparatus, other than such elements of glass not optically worked; parts and accessories hereof; Objective lenses and parts and accessories thereof; For cameras, projectors or photographic enlargers or reducers; Other.
I read another article discussing it, and they said the tariff was a special WTO sanction against Airbus for illegal subsidies paid by several governments which are part of the Airbus consortium, including Germany.
In which case, the general tariff is 2.3%, unless it is from the following programs/countries (in which case it's free): A, AU, BH.
CA, CL, CO, D, E, IL, JO, JP, KR, MA, MX, OM, P, PA, PE, S, SG. None of those apply to the Netherlands. So for an $1850 lens, a 2.3% tariff is $42.55, not $500. Unless Netherlands applies some kind of exit VAT, $500 seems out of line with what US CBP would be charging.
Yes, that is the part of the duties assessed. There is also an additional 25% based on HTS code 9903.89.37 - which I think is could be because the lens is made in Germany / sent out from Netherlands?
FedEx is required by law to report import tariffs from overseas purchases to the Treasury Department. The US collection agency is the US Department of Internal Revenue. You asked if the recipient would get in trouble for not paying the FedEx invoice. Please read the US Constitution, Section I, Article XIII, the congress has the power to Tax..., they have ceded the Constitutional duty to the Executive branch of the government and made the Department of Internal Revenue responsible for collection of the duty tax. As an attorney I feel this is unconstitutional however it is a long road to challenge the congress for ceding their responsibilities to the executive branch. Not providing legal advice just a personal opinion. You mileage may vary.
Short answer is yes. The US Treasury Department will send a notice along with a notice from the Department of Internal Revenue Service along with interest and penalties.
Thanks for the information on the constitution. I may be missing something here, but from the perspective of either IRS or Treasury, the Tariffs has already paid by FedEx on this particular import. The question is whether I/the recipient is under contract to pay FedEx for this “payment on behalf”... is it not?
I fail to understand why one would think the shipper and not the final recipient would owe a duty or tariff. It is a past through tax. I do not have a dog in the fight, don’t pay it idk. Forgive me if I am out.