Yes you and/or /u/72skidoo depending on whether you're different peeople posted before a bunch of times. Congratulations on deciphering it. But reading the literature on that MS (, 2014) the encryption had been solved already by that date, and is apparently just a simple monoalphabetic substitution cipher. Figuring out the why and where and when is a lot more work, requires knowledge of Latin and Dutch and possibly other topics like paleography. Above all it requires access to the MS or at least a digitized version, which the BL doesn't have online and which you're not providing. Bottom line here is that you're asking for something that requires actual primary research here. It likely requires more effort - and definitely more knowledge- than the decipherment does.
In short, and to be honest, it sounds like you're reading much too much into the fact that it's enciphered. It was a common thing in the Renaissance, particularly after publications like Vigenère's _Treaty on ciphers or secret means of writing_ (1586) and Johannes Trithemius' _Steganographia_ (published 1606 but written a century earlier) _Lots_ of people in the 1600s wrote diaries and letters and notebooks in codes they'd invented. ( an MS of the era with 65 magical/cryptological alphabets).
So it was common and the fact that something is written with cipher does not mean the actual text contains anything deeply secret. In fact in most cases in that era it does not. Also, simple substitution ciphers were weak and known to be easily broken back then too and serious contexts (e.g. diplomatic correspondence) used more sophisticated ciphers.
The use of a simple monoalphabetic cipher in that period is not particularly interesting from a historical perspective as it was a fad and common knowledge in educated circles. It's even less interesting from a cryptological standpoint. Breaking such a cipher is honestly pretty trivial. The method of frequency analysis has been known since antiquity.
In this case, I gather there apparently was the usual Latin scribal abbreviations in the ciphertext! Which immediately makes it obvious to the literate reader of the time, who is accustomed to such abbreviations, that the underlying language is Latin and that it's probably a monoalphabetic cipher.
Honestly, it's not necessarily anything more exciting than someone's Latin homework, written in code because writing personal notebooks in code was relatively popular at the time. Just staying with the British Library, Harley MS 7576 is from the 17th century and has some simple ciphertext in it and also some pages of Latin phrases and English. In this case the Latin phrases aren't enciphered but the point is that neither of these things are that uncommon.
We’re not the same person lol. We’re both just members of the sub I created to research the book /r/subteltyofwitches . And while yes, I did technically post it here a bunch of times, but that was only because my posts kept getting removed and I tried several times to make a version that would be acceptable to the mods.
Regardless, I think OP was just asking in general what could be the reasons for writing a book in cipher in that time period and region. Encoding text may have been a fad in that era, but I certainly wouldn’t say that it was so common as to be totally banal. This book is more than 400 pages long, handwritten and extremely consistent, so it was hardly made on a whim. It’s one of only 3 examples of cipher manuscripts (that I know of) in the British Library’s collection.
I fail to see how that's a message or a secret. (or proves it's not a hoax, although I see no particular reason to think it is) "Christ is born from the virgin Mary" is not a controversial statement to either a Catholic or Protestant and it is a stock phrase, occurring for instance in the medieval carol _Gaudete_.
One small correction to OP: the ending phrase is actually “christus ex virgine maria natus attestor” which is slightly different, and seems to be unique.
But thank you for your response. It’s true that it’s impossible to research the book without access to it. Unfortunately I don’t have the rights to post the scan since it was done by someone else and he asked me not to share it. I did pay for a scan of the last few pages, which I shared in the sub recently. But to have the whole book scanned would cost a couple hundred dollars.
We’re interested in researching this mostly because almost nobody else has. How often does one get the opportunity to solve a historical mystery? So is the truth of its origin going to end up being dull and anticlimactic, even if we manage to crack it? Quite possibly, maybe even likely, but you could also say that about other cipher texts such as the Voynich Manuscript or the Rohonc Codex. The answer may be boring, but that doesn’t mean it’s not worth asking the question. The book has been discussed on a few different crypto blogs, which means it’s obviously of interest to someone.
It's not necessarily 'totally banal' but that doesn't mean it's interesting either. More importantly it doesn't mean the _underlying text is interesting._ On the contrary most stuff under these types of simple ciphers _is_ pretty banal. Nothing about this one sounds that spectacular.
You seem to assume that the mere fact it was enciphered makes it interesting and significant, and I'm afraid to say it doesn't. You couldn't publish a journal article merely on having broken a monoalphabetic cipher. This isn't the Voynich codex, it's the equivalent of a newspaper .
But good researchers aren't people skilled at getting answers so much as people skilled at finding important but answerable questions.
In this case, this isn't some great unsolved mystery where people have attempted to crack it and failed. According to Schmeh's article and blog it'd been done already in fact. So the remaining mystery is that we don't know who wrote it or why. That's definitely the case, but the point is there's no shortage of manuscripts like that. There are tons of them, and many of them with content more interesting than this.
Well, yes: . He seems to be mainly responsible for publicizing this. But a 'crypto blog' is exactly what it is. As per the above; it's not about the most interesting historical questions to work on, nor necessarily the most interesting ciphers.
What I'm saying here, is that if this MS hadn't been written in the Latin alphabet you guys hadn't paid it any attention, would you? I'm pretty sure you weren't looking for 17th century Dutch-and-Latin manuscripts to try to figure out the purpose and provenance of, but rather looking for unsolved ciphers to break. There's nothing wrong with that but you can't construe historic importance just so the cipher-breaking becomes relevant.
There are certainly far more than 3 manuscripts with ciphers in them in the BL. Even Schmeh's blog there lists 4 BL manuscripts) Search the catalog for 'cipher', 'encoded', 'secret alphabet' etc and you'll easily find many more.
I posted everything I know about this book in /r/unresolvedmysteries and it got quite a positive response, so I created a sub and have been working with a small group to try to learn more.
That’s all well and good, but I’m still at a loss for why you’re expending so much energy in convincing us not to research this. Take any other question on this sub and imagine the response being “this is not worth researching, as the answer is likely quite boring”.
I never said that I expect anything about the text to be “interesting or significant”. Only that there’s a mystery here and I’m doing what I can to solve it. I know it’s just a substitution cipher; this is why I’m able to decode it. I’m not a crypto expert and would have no skill in deciphering anything more complicated. But nobody else has decoded this one, so I’m doing it, and, with the help of others who have greater expertise than I do, using the text to learn more about the author.
So OP came here to see if there are any experts on the time period who could shed some light on possible circumstances of its origin - what exactly is wrong with that?
We now think it may be a students early 17th century Latin school notebook, but we cant find any evidence of simple notebooks in cipher either (diaries and letters in cipher from that time are indeed common, for obvious reasons). So we're looking for more context on Latin schools and the use of ciphers for various texts in the 17th century. Thnx for the reply.
I agree with u/72skidoo. U/platypuskeeper, thank you for the learned reply, but do not understand the tone. There's about 5 of us here on Reddit trying to understand the context and reasons behind the Subtlety of Witches manuscript. I dont think any of us thinks there's a huge mystery behind it. We are not looking for magical secret formulae. Just bemused by someone in the early 17th century writing, by hand, a 400 page word list in what is admittedly a very simple substitution cipher. Even more bemused that inside the British Library, a fastidious and knowledeable keeper of manuscripts like Frederic Madden (who nailed the Shakespeare Collier falsifications), and someone like the reputable bookseller Thomas Rodd, would a) buy this manuscript b) catalogue it with an obviously nonsense name and author. Imo, its interesting precisely because of the relatively mundane context.