It begins with Gothic architecture, although this is something of an incidental step. Gothic architecture, developed and used from the High Middle Ages through the Renaissance, was characterized by an impression of narrowness and height; buildings in the Gothic style managed to be higher and narrower than earlier, Romanesque ones through the use of the slender and pointed Gothic or ogival arch, clusters of slender columns, and flying buttresses (basically, the skeleton of an arch, placed perpendicularly to a wall in order to support it). During the Early Modern period, the humanities and sciences of the Middle Ages - then conceived of as a savage "dark age" between the enlightened eras of the Roman Empire and the classically-inspired Renaissance - were typically rated on a scale from "utterly barbaric" to "less barbaric, but still barbaric", and by the time Batty Langley wrote Ancient Architecture, Restored, and Improved in 1742, this style was seen as "coarse" and "artless" and needed to be rehabilitated; where today we see it as having important feats of engineering, it was then generally considered to be ugliness incarnate essentially derived from the loss of culture caused by the destruction of Rome by the (see?) Visigoths.
The Gothic brought about flying buttresses. To make a buttress fly you pull it away from the wall it supports and then reconnect it only at certain points, like an arch spanning from the buttress to the wall. This makes the walls thinner, because more of the structural load can be passed on to these external buttresses. Also by making the building lighter (in mass) you need less additional mass to support the lessened mass, so you get increasing benefits. It's now as if the building has an external skeleton carrying much of its weight, so it can be more free to express itself artistically. Windows are one prominent example of this, and their light was symbolic of the divine and important to have in the church as much as possible. The glass also served as a storytelling medium (as did painting and sculpture) where the windows could depict a biblical scene or have some meaning in addition to their beauty. Considering many people could not read the Bible, these served as illustrations of the text.
All of this together - the historical settings and references, and the love of untamed nature - is also known as the Romantic movement. Gothic/Romantic artwork was lush and wild; novels were full of the kind of excitement that modern people living in the prosaic Industrial Revolution felt was gone from the world. This movement also saw the invention of the historical reenactment: a full-on medieval tournament was put on by the Earl of Eglinton in 1839, and several years later, Queen Victoria and Prince Albert held a where the pair dressed as Philippa of Hainault and Edward III and encouraged guests to also dress from the same period.
As the love of Classical art and architecture built up to an extreme at the end of the eighteenth century, however, people started to see a good side to not just the Middle Ages, but a wilder and less pared-down aesthetic in general, and "Gothic" came to take on a new connotation. For instance, Richard Hurd's 1762 Letters on Chivalry and Romance described Edmund Spenser's The Faerie Queen, written and published at the end of Queen Elizabeth I's reign, as a "Gothic poem". The English started to see the Gothic era as one characterized by, well, chivalry and romance, and particularly important to their country's history, taking it from a degenerate period to one with important figures to remember and a tradition worth reviving.
Romanticism faded away from popularity, not to return again until members of the hippie counter culture in the late 1960s adopted long, flowing skirts, peasant blouses, and long hair on both men and women. This was soon co-opted by the fashion industry, leading to a more mainstream take in the early 1970s. (Think Laura Ashley and Gunne Sax, cravats and ascots, those men's shirts with ruffles down the front.) The New Romantics of the 1980s - Spandau Ballet, Boy George, et al. - then took this to an extreme, as did Vivienne Westwood in her 1981 "Pirate" collection, with "puffy shirts" and eighteenth-century-style jackets.
Another aspect of the Romantic era, one which persisted through the late nineteenth century, was an interest in the dark, mysterious, and supernatural. Mary Shelley's Frankenstein (1818), for instance, is a classic Gothic horror story; The Monk (1796) and The Mysteries of Udolpho (1794), two Gothic novels referenced in Jane Austen's Gothic parody Northanger Abbey, were also classics of the genre and featured evil villains, persecuted innocents, and a lot of implausible but exciting situations happening in dark castles. This is the meaning of "Gothic" that the twentieth century goths were drawing from.
The modern gothic subculture began with gothic rock artists and fans, an offshoot of punk that started in 1979-80, and then went on to combine with the style of the New Romantics - like goth rock and punk, both a musical and a fashionable movement. Goths pulled from Victorian clothing, wearing black PVC corsets, velvet, lace, and high boots; they also added a lot of crosses in jewelry and tattoos, ripped fishnet stockings, and of course a heavy use of pale foundation and black makeup, none of which were really in use in the nineteenth century. Modern goths are a post-modern pastiche of the people involved in the literary Gothic movement, many steps removed from the original ancient Europeans.
For further reading, I want to suggest Gothic to Goth: Romantic Era Fashion & Its Legacy - it's out of print, sadly, but as it's a catalogue from an exhibition at the Wadsworth Athenaeum it is beautiful. You might also enjoy Valerie Steele's Gothic: Dark Glamour.
And it certainly was revived. In architecture, the Gothic style was being used from the time of Langley, above (that's what he was writing for - he also published ), and exploded in a big way in the early nineteenth century. The Lake Poets, led by William Wordsworth, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, and Robert Southey, took inspiration from medieval and English Renaissance literature, and were sometimes referred to as poets of the "second Gothic". Sir Walter Scott was an early adopter of the fascination with the medieval in both fiction and poetry; his early poems, The Lay of the Last Minstrel (1805) and The Lady of the Lake (1810), were set in Scotland in the sixteenth century, and he also wrote a number of historical novels. I must also mention that women's fashion was moving away from the Neoclassical and making many references to medieval and Renaissance dress, with slashed sleeves, starched white ruffs, and fuller skirts. Outside of England, others were responding to the same impulses against Neoclassical rationality: the German Sturm und Drang, the American Hudson River School and Transcendentalist philosophers.
European Gothic Christian churches are also ironically (considering their connotations today) not dark at all! Using new engineering like flying buttresses, pointed arches, and ribbed vaulting meant that their walls could have significantly more windows and hence natural illumination, and this was an intentional feature. I'll explain how flying buttresses work, but the general idea of all three is similar: by being more judicious in the shapes of material, you can focus strenh where it is more beneficial and remove it from where it is not.
At the most basic example, a building has walls and a roof, and the walls support themselves as well as the roof. This means that masonry walls are often somewhat pyramid-shaped, with walls much wider at their base than near the roof. This still is true to an extent (though we often instead now use masonry as a veneer rather than for support, so it would be less likely there), and even up to the creation of skyscrapers about a hundred years ago it's quite visible where for example the brick ground floor walls of a building will be many feet thick and taper significantly thinner upwards. This leaves very little or almost no space at all for windows, or if you did have them, they would be very deep and so let in very little light. At the higher levels where the wall is thinner, windows would be more likely.
The next improvement is to use buttresses. A buttress can be as simple as building something akin to a column right next to a wall. This gives the wall a lot more strenh, especially against being pushed on its face. It also means that if you need a certain amount of vertical strenh, like to support the roof, you could makes the wall thinner by moving some of its mass to these buttresses. You could use the same amount of masonry but now have a thinner wall in most spots while thicker in some spots. Now it's easier to make windows, but the walls do still need to be thick enough to support themselves. This isn't a new discovery, with examples of this going back thousands of years.
Ribbed vaulting and pointed arches have similar development ideas, but they're a little less straightforward to illustrate. Pointed arches transmit the loads more directly in the direction they are intended (mostly down, less sideways) than straight or circular arches. Basically pointed arches are more efficient at putting the weight where we want it to go by virtue of their shape alone. Ribbed vaulting judiciously reinforces the structure in specific portions that could benefit from it, without needing to reinforce the entire structure everywhere.
Are there any other surviving examples of \actual\ Gothic construction, besides Theodoric's tomb in Ravenna? Do they actually have similarities to the medieval Gothic style?
From what I remember of visiting Notre-Dame, it's quite dark. Is there a reason it bucks this trend, or are gothic buildings just bright in comparison to similar structures of other architectural styles?