This is by no means a definitive answer, but I wrote a little a few months back regarding Howard Zinn's Peoples' History of the United States being translated and read in Russian.
The long and short (and I recommend reading the article I link to in that answer) is that as far as the Soviet Union was concerned, especially during the Cold War, the major themes about United States history that were focused on to the exclusion of other topics were the "deepening crisis of capitalism", American imperialism, and working class movements.
There was a Russian-language academic study of United States history, despite it not having great access to primary sources and being hemmed in by these ideological constraints, but that isn't the same thing as American history being widely taught in the USSR - to be blunt, it wasn't really an important topic.
To the extent that it was covered, at least in the 1970s, the American Revolution was not treated as a "revolution" at all, but a war for independence covered in 8th form in several lectures in the standard modern history course (mid 17th century through mid 19th century). The "the war fur the independence of the English colonies in North America” was treated as a transfer of power from "landowning aristocrats to the trader‐industrialist bourgeoisie of the North, which ruled in alliance with the plantation slaveholders of the South.”.
An additional stress was placed on how the Declaration of Independence, Constitution and Bill of Rights called for universal rights, but that the reality did not live up to those ideals:
Further emphasis was placed on the constant violations of freedoms that seemed to exist only on paper. The emphasis was very much on the American revolution and its ideals being bourgeois and therefore falling far short of its stated ideals. You might be interested to read more in an article done by the New York Times on Soviet teaching of the American Revolution in 1976 .
Which is to say that at least in the Brezhnev years, to the extent that Soviet schooling was concerned, American history was treated as a relatively peripheral subject. It was definitely heavily defined by Marxist historic interpretations, and the ideals of the American revolution were given a cynical (if largely accurate) interpretation.
This is very peripheral to your overall question, but you may be interested in this translated biographical article on Abraham Lincoln from the Great Soviet Encyclopedia series. The encyclopedia was widely distributed across the Soviet Union and would have been among the first resources for an average citizen to get a cursory glance on anything related to American history they were curious about. It is very praising of the Union's cause under Lincoln's government during the war and adds the language of class war to it. You get the idea that Lincoln was some Fidel Castro type figure in the Soviet mindset. Not all of the GSE is translated into English, but there are probably many more American history entries from it out there.
>Lincoln is a national hero of the American people, the bearer of the revolutionary traditions that are followed by all progressive people in the USA in the struggle against reaction and for the interests of the people.
The thing is, most of the program was dedicated to the "History of The Soviet Union", which actually meant Russia (no surprise). Then there was "Ancient History", then "Middle Ages", and only in the 8th grade it was "New History" that covered the 1650-1870 period in foreign countries.
That is so amazing It is completely different than the story we learn in public school. Why wouldn't you want to teach it this way, its so much more interesting Lincoln "crushing the rebel slaveholders", "the destruction of the slaveholder forces." I get that southern states would not love this, but damn its more fun to read!
The 1969 textbook is , and as you can see from the index of content, Chapter 2 is about "The independence war in the British colonies in Northern American and formation of the USA". Pages 34-42 talk about the British colonies and their uprising, and pages 43-54 are about the independence war and the constitution.
The brief content. Colonists. Indians are friendly, but the colonists screw them. Plantations. Slaves from Africa. "Shameful for the humankind slavery was especially widespread in the American colonies". Taxation. Boston Massacre (innocent boys throw snowballs at British soldiers). Boston Tea Party. The War. Paul Revere. George Washinon. Declaration of Independence. Thomas Jefferson. Benjamin Franklin. Union with France. Lafayette. Victory. Of a bourgeois revolution. Daniel Shays. Constitution. Bill of Rights. Supreme Court (which constantly supports slave owners and capitalists against slaves and workers). Power of capitalists under the name of power of people.
Then we jump to Chapter 12, "The USA in the first half of the 19th century. The Civil War". Pages 228-237 are about the USA between two revolutions. Pages 238-243 are on the Civil War.
The brief content. Second bourgeois revolution. Slave owners control the American government since its inception. Indians are slaughtered by pox blankets. Mexico is attacked and partially occupied and annexed. Panama is attacked. Latin American is attacked 50 times in the second half of the century. Migration to the West. Slavery in the South. Nat Turner. Workers unite. Trade unions. Joseph Weydemeyer. Abolitionists. Frederick Douglass. Harriet Tubman. John Brown. Abraham Lincoln. War. Homesteads. Lee. Grant. The North wins. Lincoln assassinated.