In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
That being said, the right was screaming about how it must have been some liberal Justice/clerk that leaked it in order to sabotage the ruling, but this was never even close to proven. (And cannot be if an investigation didn't find the leaker.).
You know all these poor aids and clerks got squeezed hard by the cops on this. None of them cracked.
You know they didn’t pressure Justices, or their spouses, NEARLY as hard. “Out of respect,” probably.
The legality of the leak is a gray area. If a justice blessed it, they could potentially be prosecuted (seems unlikely) or pressured to step down.
The supreme court is supposed to apply the law in their decisions, uninfluenced by public opinion. Seeing the reaction in advance of the decision could either cause justices to shift their position or make them afraid to alter their position. This is a big deal and they need to make sure it doesn't happen again.
In fact, if anything, there was more motivation on the right to leak the ruling. Reportedly, some of the Justices were wavering and were thinking of supporting a ruling that stopped short of repealing Roe. The leak showed that they supported the "repeal Roe" ruling at that point. If anyone changed their votes, the right wing groups would know exactly who it was. This meant that pressure was increased on the right wing Justices to keep their votes on "repeal Roe.".
Again, though, we don't know for sure who leaked the ruling for what purpose. The thing that's way more important than the leak is that Roe was overturned and women's healthcare is being negatively impacted.