So, you got to vent your spleen, but what is your legal question here? What will your stake in the house be?
Maryland is an equitable distribution State, so did you buy it together while married? Even if so, did the income source for buying the house come directly from your retirement Account?
You say it is owned together so does that mean your are both owners on the Deed? It sounds like it is(was) both your primary residence? The court can't award ownership of the house to one or the other if you are considered both tenants in entirety, so there would be a partition sale, you could try and buy out her share of you really want to keep that specific property.
There's a lot taken into consideration of how other property(not real property so not land/house) are awarded and divided, lenh of the marriage, how you each contributed(not just who made the most money), who brought what into the marriage and how things were bought during, a lot more based on personal and personal financial information than we can(or should) know here on this subreddit.
The house was mortgaged after we married and the money for the down payment and all closing costs was funded by my personal retirement fund. We both contributed to the mortgage payments when we could actually make them, she has a serious shopping problem which led to numerous bailouts from her parents.
Most of what was bought for the house was funded by her parents because she doesn't know how to control her spending, to elaborate, she's spent a ton of money on independent consultant products (4 of them to be exact) and clothing. And the rest was either already owned from our previous situation and what I bought.
Apologize for the lack of details and I appreciate your response truly. So to kind of sure up what was missing...
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
MD Fam. Law ยง 8-201 and 205 are some of what you want to read to give you ideas on how things will be considered straight from the Maryland Code.
It's tough to speculate because maryland Courts look at the big picture of how each Spouse ends up after all the division will happens.
You may end up trying to make an argument for partial marital status for the house based on the unequal financial contribution as it was acquired(paying the mortgage) while you were married- but the legal specifics of how exactly you own the house together(tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants in entities) matters. Also the fact is is a family use asset.