It's OTC medicine. There's not a controlled amount of Advil. You could literally have you trunk filled with it, and eat them like m&ms, delicious delicious chocolate m&ms that I can't eat cuz I'm trying to lose weight... Sorry. Anyway, the point is no you'll be okay.
Also I'm not sure what the"overdose" amount of Advil is but it would be a lot. According to Advil overdose signs occur at 40x the recommended dosage (maximum daily dosage is 3200mg, so it's.. a lot).
No one is going to charge you with a crime for abusing over-the-counter medicine. If you're taking so many Advil you're worried about a potential overdose, you need to see a doctor about the underlying reason of why you're taking that many Advil.
It’s weird I feel like I’m “lying to Advil” I know I sounds stupid. I just feel like I broke Advil’s policy. But yeah sometimes I take 2 every 3/4 hours which I found out isn’t the best. But like Advil isn’t gonna “punish” me right?
Let's walk through this for a second. Do you think a drug company is going to try to take legal action against people buying and using their products? Think logically about that for a second.
Again, think about this logically. Do you think a drug company is going to care that you're using too much of their product (in turn having to buy more of their product)?
If you're truly going into a tailspin over taking 2 Advil over 1, you need to go see a mental health professional as soon as you can. This isn't normal behavior.
I can’t say I fully understand, because I don’t know what it’s like to experience OCD. I do understand the anxious part from dealing with anxiety. It’s hard overthinking simple things and worrying about all the worst possible outcomes sometimes.
And Advil itself can’t do anything if I use it without adjusting to its exact guidelines right? Since I feel bad since it says only take 1 or something like that.
Cramps and pain. I was just worried about the legal aspect. I have ocd and I feel like a horrible person because it says take 2 only if 1 dosnt work. And I just took two without trying 1.
I did the meds are barely working. The ER won’t accept me until I’m on the brink of killing myself. I’ve been so fear ridden I can barley eat and sleep and I’ve been trying to go inpatient but I keep getting turned away so here I am having a mental breakdown over Advil on Reddit.
I only take it one week in a month I was just worried because you know it says like only take one but I was taking two and I wasn’t following the exact directions on the bottle.