Partly true. India has a massive population because of the massive river systems that are fed by the glaciers in the Himalayas. That's the Ganges and Brahmaputra and the Indus rivers and their tributaries. Those are all glacier fed and augmented by the monsoons. There are also two other major river systems in the South that are mainly monsoon fed.
Crucially, it is also the Himalayas that act as a cold weather barrier from the North aka Tibet and Northern China and Eurasia. That allows for a very temperate climate in the Indian subcontinent that allows for incredibly high population density.
Many parts of America for example also have very high levels of rainfall and big lakes and river systems but the cold weather causes a much lower population density. Of course I am also ignoring history as India and China are much much older civilizations where the populations had a much longer head start. Besides politics - both regions had remarkable political stability compared to many other parts of the world several thousand years ago.
Yes I'm sure other countries that have complained about immigration constantly will be happy to take in hundreds of millions of Indian migrants.
I dabbled in a sales field that had me visiting hundreds of convenience stores a few years ago. It's one of the most impressive networks I've ever seen. Almost every store I came across was owned by an Indian, was run very meticulously, and was basically one cog in a much, much larger network of stores where basically all of the owners knew each other in some way going back many years.
From experience-construction in the sun and any technician work that requires you to be in the engine bay at all should be much more heavily regulated for safety. There are other examples I’m sure, but I’ve actually done each of these. In a quick lube , for instance, you’re literally under the hood of a car that could’ve driven 100s of miles before getting there, meanwhile it’s 95F and 70% humidity and all your shop has is a oscillating fan and some water to keep you cool. And god help you if you need to take a shit on a construction site in similar settings.