You're under no obligation to sign a new lease in the middle of your current lease, much less one that supersedes your old lease and raises your rent.
What might happen is that at the end of your current lease, your new landlords don't offer you the opportunity to keep living there, end your tenancy, and get new tenants willing to pay the increased rent.
But until then you're welcome to keep living there until at least 2/28/2022 under your current lease, unless, say, and perhaps somewhat oddly/rarely, your current lease says something specific about what happens in the event the rental is sold to a new owner.
The lease can't supersede law, which requires new owners to honor the terms of existing leases. Contractual obligations, including leases, stay with the property.
The lease is a legally binding document that entitles OP to live there, without unreasonable landlord interference, and assuming OP doesn’t violate the lease somehow, until the fixed term of the lease concludes.
¿Can the new LLs give the 21 days eviction notice if tenants don't want to sign the new lease until their current lease essentially ends?
If the new landlords try to end their tenancy prematurely or evict them without valid reason, OP can bring their lease to court with them and show the judge that they have a legal right to occupy the rental.
The legal advice that you can stay until the end of the lease and that you need not sign a new lease right now is good.
This is not legal advice but there could be a benefit in signing a new lease now. If market rates for similar properties have gone up significantly more than they are trying to increase you to now, you might save by locking it in for a year rather than wait and get an even higher rate in February. You are also in a good negotiating position because they want a new lease and you have more leverage to dictate terms when you don't a really have to sign it now. For example, perhaps you could benefit by negotiating down to a $50 increase now but have it locked in for a year as they showed you their hand and now you know in February, you will likely have at least a $100 increase.
You can stay under your existing lease contract until it ends, provided you stick to the terms of the lease, also.
The lease can't supersede law, which requires new owners to honor the terms of existing leases. Contractual obligations, including leases, stay with the property.