It doesn't sound like it's going to ruin your friendship. It sounds like it already has, at least for now. Maybe you can patch things up, but probably not while you're dealing with your roommate on such a close basis.
The first is that you can start making police reports every time your roommate is violent with you, and seek a restraining order. If that's successful, or if he's arrested for assault, then you'll generally have the place to yourself, at least in the short term. An arrest or a restraining order wouldn't directly terminate his tenancy, but it might at least get you some peace and quiet, and it might encourage him to engage with the second option.
The second is that you, the landlord, and - unfortunately - your roommate can try to negotiate. If you make it clear you won't continue, and that you are willing to risk an eviction rather than living with him, maybe he'll back down a bit. You'll need to figure out your goals for that negotiation - whether you want out of the lease, whether you want him to agree to leave, or something else - and you may need to bring something to the table to make your roommate or your landlord comfortable amending the lease.
If you're on a joint lease, you don't have the right to terminate individually during your lease, and you are as responsible for late rent, damage to the unit, and so on as your roommate is: even though you are a model tenant, you're legally tied to someone who isn't, until the lease ends or until everyone involved agrees otherwise. In other words, if you walk away and he destroys the place, the landlord will generally have a legal right to pursue you for the repairs, leaving you to pursue your roommate to try to get that money back.
I have not formally about the entire situation or how I am feeling that’s why I’m here seeking advice first. But when he entered my room when I was sleeping I immediately told them and I said I wanted him out and they just told me to calm down and let him calm down cause he was drunk..