addresses only part of your question, but does look at how the US Army during the conflict prosecuted and punished the crime, as well as the racial bias in how those policies were carried out.
But amongst those executed and with the rather obvious racial biases at play that you‘ve mentioned, can we reasonably certain that those African-American soldiers and Latino soldiers were in fact guilty of rape and/or murder?
It is very possible some of the crimes were false accusations, or else the wrong man, but I know of no study that goes back to investigate all of those specific cases to relitigate them in-depth to provide such insight. Roberts touches on the factors behind this in her book, and while my focus in the answer was the US military, which explains a large part of the picture - most distressingly the willingness to use black soldiers as a 'scapegoat' - there also is the French component, and Roberts also lays some of the blame at the feet of the French racial views, especially when considering the possibility of wrongful convictions, writing in summary:
A stark difference can often be found in the accusations with identifications of black men by the victim or witnesses taken at face value even with clear reasons to doubt, and accusations against white servicemen resulting in questioning as to whether they could be sure they had pointed out the right man, or making much of the darkness and poor lighting to cast doubt on the veracity... if not accuse her of being a prostitute or to have otherwise invited the assault on herself.
Roberts also details how much some cases were railroaded through the military courts, such as Arthur E. Davis and Charles H. Jordan who were accused of a rape committed on August 10th, charged on the 13th, tried on the 16th, and sentenced to death on the 17th. It isn't clear whether they even had legal counsel, as it was not required to be provided, but it is hard to believe a proper defense could have been mounted for them under those circumstances regardless of their guilt.
Wouldn’t fit as an independent or expansive answer, but OP seems to be under the impression that armies can only punish their soldiers if they commit a ‘war crime’, and this seems to be a major source of the confusion. This is far from true - even the opposite may be true, with far stricter regulations applying in some ways. A soldier could even be prosecuted for petty theft without it being a ‘war crime’. Rape as a war crime provides additional context for how to prosecute the crime and possible sentencing, in a similar way designation as a hate crime might. But rape, murder etc. have generally still been illegal even without those further designations.