Why are there so many hospitals in the US called Beth Israel, Mount Sinai, or something with "Jewish" in the name? I've always been intrigued by this, so I went looking for some answers.
The answer, shockingly, is that Jews established a bunch of hospitals. Of course, the actual interesting reasons ended up being WHY Jews chose to do so-.
1)For about 1000 years in Europe, Jewish communities were often their own semi-independent entities, or kehillot, separate from the Christian communities in the cities and towns in which they resided. As part of their self government, they often looked after their own sick, whether using the hekdesh (a room in the synagogue complex which was available for the use of the poor and homeless), through Bikur Cholim (visiting the sick) voluntary societies, or through the establishment of hospitals, starting in Western European cities in the 18th century. Bikur cholim is a fundamental act of kindness in Judaism (it's famously counted as one of the things which allows a person to go to the World to Come) and so communities caring for their sick was almost second nature.
1a)The first Jewish hospitals in the US were founded in the mid-19th century in response to outbreaks of disease in cities like Cincinnati, New York, New Orleans, and San Francisco, specifically intended for the care of "Israelites" in those cities. But WHY did they found their own hospitals in America, land of the free, home of the brave, religious liberty and all that, where they could go to any hospital they chose?
2)The other kind of denominational hospital that is widely found is Roman Catholic (including my local hospital, incidentally). The commonality is that in the 19th century, both Roman Catholics and Jews were being targeted by some Protestant clergy at local hospitals, who attempted to convert them as they were dying. By founding their own hospitals, these religious groups could prevent this sort of encroachment on their religious beliefs.
3)In addition, there were of course other specific benefits to a Jewish hospital for Jewish patients- the food served would be in accordance to kosher dietary laws, the facility would have policies in place to allow the observance of the Sabbath by staff and patients, and rabbis and synagogue services would be available.
In addition, Jews visiting hospitals were often faced with language and cultural barriers to the point that some doctors would diagnose Jews with "Hebraic Debility," supposedly an anxiety brought on by acculturation to the US, when they couldn't come up with a better diagnosis. Small wonder that Jews might wish to start their own hospitals to avoid this- where, incidentally, they could hire Jewish doctors, who were often blocked from being hired by non-Jewish hospitals. Not coincidentally, at least eleven Jewish hospitals (in addition to Mount Sinai, which already existed) were established in the five boroughs from 1880 to the early decades of the 20th century, as well as many others in other cities, some of which still exist today.
4)In the 1880s, when the biggest wave of Jewish emigration began, antisemitism became a dominant concern. The new immigrants were often discriminated against by non-Jewish doctors at local hospitals, who were disconcerted or even disgusted by their poverty and religious observance. One Boston doctor reported, in a paragraph that's so startling that I'll quote it in full, that.
While we're at it, I'd like to talk about Jews and discriminatory medical school admissions. , but medical school quotas were their own issue. While they weren't quite as drastic as they were sometimes portrayed to be, they still very much existed. Cornell's quota limited the proportion of Jews to their proportion in the New York State population; UNC fired its med school dean for imposing a quota but then maintained it anyway. Some schools, like NYU, had no such quotas and at one point in the 1930s had a 50% Jewish student body; this was at least in part due to the fact that the dean preferred to accept students from City College of New York, which had such a large Jewish population (in the face of the above-referenced Jewish undergrad quotas) that it was nicknamed "the cheder \[Jewish school\] on the hill." But the prevalence of Jewish quotas in med schools was still enough that Jews attempted to avoid it by going abroad to England, Scotland, Germany and Switzerland for medical school (though when they returned, they discovered that in effect, the quotas were replaced by restrictions on licensing for foreign-educated MDs), and a Medical Committee for Research of the Conference on Jewish Relations was founded in the 1930s to research the problem.
These practices actually led, in one case obliquely and in two cases directly, to the establishment of two new Jewish institutions and one New York State institution. Indirectly, the quota led to the creation of Brandeis University, a nonsectarian university founded by Jews as a way of resurrecting the failing unaccredited Middlesex University medical school. At this stage, Jews were taking chances on attending unaccredited schools, specifically Middlesex and the Chicago Medical School (which later became accredited with the help of Jewish-run Mount Sinai Hospital of Chicago). When Middlesex was threatened with closure, Jewish figures decided to purchase it, establish a university around it, and hopefully to reestablish it as an accredited school. The university succeeded; the medical school failed, and ironically, to this day Brandeis has no medical school. More directly, the quota led to the establishment of two medical schools which would accept Jewish students. One of these was Albert Einstein College of Medicine, founded by (but no longer officially part of) Yeshiva University, a Jewish university which was facing the issue of its students facing frustration gaining admission to existing schools; it also had the side benefit to religious Jews of following the Jewish calendar and featuring kosher food.
The other, and certainly the most significant of the three, was the State University of New York, which included a medical school system. This was due to the legal challenges to quota laws mounted by Jews in the wake of Truman's Commission on Higher Education and Commission on Civil Rights, including an attempted suit against Columbia University to remove its tax exempt status given its discrimination against Jews in admissions at its medical school. In 1946, a NY City Council investigation found that despite the fact that the majority of students in the city colleges (then CCNY, Hunter and Baruch) were Jewish, only 1/4 of students at the five NYC medical schools were Jewish. While the schools were private, they used city funded hospitals for teaching and received tax exemptions. The results of the investigation led to the establishment of a Temporary Commission on the Need for a State University in 1947, a move which had been rejected for over 150 years previously out of fear of harming private colleges. In 1948, SUNY was officially established, along with a commitment by the governor that students be granted equal access based on qualifications "without regard to race, color, religion, creed or national origin," and in 1950 took over medical schools in NYC (now Downstate Medical Center) and Syracuse (now part of Upstate Medical Center)- later medical schools were established at Buffalo and Stony Brook.
Ironically, these days Jewish populations in medical schools have plummeted much farther down than they ever were in the days of quotas, but that's due just as much to the fact that they have other options that they may not have had previously, as fields like engineering, academia, law and finance increasingly opened to them.
There are no Ottoman-related questions that interests me (or the ones that i can answer) so i'm thankful that Tuesday Trivia exists so i have something to do in my free time.
This time i'm talking about the hospital of the Haseki Hurrem Sultan. Just like most Ottoman hospitals of the day, it was tied to waqf and so tied with the Mosque complex she built. The complex was built in two phases. The first phase was completed in 1540, in which the Friday Mosque, Madrasa, elementary school and soup kitchen were completed. The hospital was then completed in the second phase of construction in 1551. It was built near to the Avrat Pazari (Women's Market). One can speculate that a bazaar frequented by women eventually burgeoned in the area due to the large number of women coming to the hospital, either as visitors or as outpatients themselves.
The regulations concerning the establishment of Sultana Hurrem’s hospital showed her intent in building this hospital with regard to her role as a builder and healer. She starts with specifying in great detail the professional qualifications she is looking for in the two physicians intended to run the hospital. Hurrem requires that these physicians possess not only extensive experience and high levels of proficiency in the arts of medicine and pharmacology, but also problem-solving and patient psychology. In addition, she expects her doctors to possess an impressive inventory of assets that, according to her, are more conducive to the healing process than mere professional expertise. With this objective in mind, she seeks out doctors who possess such humanistic qualities as "munificence of conduct, considerate disposition, serenity, diligence, one with a sensitive heart, conciliatory nature, appreciated by relatives and as well as strangers, one with soft words, pleasant discourse, cheerful, and accommodating", as can be seen in her further requirements afterwards: