I wouldn't worry about it negatively impacting his cases. Juvenile courts do take these kinds of cases seriously (and arguably should!), but they're also cognizant of the fact that they're dealing with kids whose brains aren't fully developed and who have -- and I mean this scientifically, not judgmentally -- immature reactions to serious consequences. So if he has to go inpatient for mental health treatment and the case needs to be adjourned for, say, 30 days, all the Court is going to want to see is proof of admission and the State and Court are going to say "That's fine. Let him get some help for a bit.".
1.) You mentioned in a response to someone that it's "a felony charge until he's 18." To be clear, that's a little inaccurate; it's a lifetime felony charge, BUT he's eligible under Wis. Stat. 938.355(4m) to petition the Court after he turns 17 AND has completed the entirety of his sentence to have it expunged, and the Court can grant it if it finds that the person would benefit from and society would not be harmed by wiping it clean. I say this because I've had a recent influx in my adult practice of people being charged with Felon Adjudicated Delinquent With A Firearm (the juvenile conviction equivalent of Felon in Possession of a Firearm) because they mistakenly believed the expungement was automatic, and I wanted to make sure that while you know that it can happen -- and often does happen -- it's not automatically going to happen without a little effort on your son's part.
The case is actually in Wood County but attorney told us Judge is considering Portage County Juvenile detention. Can you tell me what the Portage County facility is like? Might sound odd but my son has fears of showering with a group and getting beat up so just curious if we should be concerned about these types of things.
Well, I'm assuming the case is in Portage County, so that means they're talking about dealing with it in county. Think of it like jail vs prison. I certainly would prefer my kid being in county to out of it, honestly, if for no other reason than it's easier to visit.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Thank you for the response. Our attorney said it wouldn't be Lincoln Hills but judge is considering the Portage County Juvenile detention center. I don't know how that compares to LH but from how lawyer made it sound it's better.
I can't say I know much about the facilities there. I don't take cases up there. But juvenile facilities are not like Oz or some prison movie. They're kids; they do take care of them. It's not fancy, but it's safe.
2.) You say that they're talking about a month in juvenile detention. Are they saying they would put him in a Department of Corrections juvenile facility (which, to the best of my knowledge, at the moment is basically Lincoln Hills in Irma, WI and that's it), or that they would put him in the county's secure juvenile detention facility under some programming there? I ask this because not only would the latter probably be more preferable from a "making sure he can take the same classes he'd be taking in his normal school" way, but also because a lot of us are curious as to how courts outside of the big metropolitan areas are treating sending kids to Lincoln Hills with all the problems they've been dealing with the last few years.