You were in violation of the law, so your story here does not amount to a legal defense to the charge.
You can tell that story to the judge and hope that they just feel like cutting you a break, but if you tell them that story, it could also convict you on the facts.
But in this case, that brief second of me doing what I had done, would that not classify as emergency use. Using my phone for less than 5 seconds, seems a lot more safe then having my car stop in the middle of the highway.
If you can prove in court that but for the emergency action you took, that your car would have come to a complete stop in the traffic lane of the highway, then I'd argue you would have a good defense.
That's going to require more than your testimony though, because I'm not convinced that's what would have happened, or else there would be a lot more stories of Teslas coming to sudden stops on the highway when someone's phone battery dies or whatever.
I am looking into the issue now, and will be going to the Tesla dealership to talk to them about it, but keep in mind that the Tesla has a wireless charger in it, there really is no excuse for the phone dying, but the bluetooth turning off was probably more of an issue with my phone rather than anything else. As far as I know the car would have stopped sooner rather than later and still puts me and fellow drivers in danger, would a judge not be able to understand that?
If you have a witness from Tesla that will tell the judge "If you're driving our car and you turn your phone's bluteooth off, then the car will roll to a stop in the traffic lane of a highway" then yeah, a judge will understand that.
The judge is unlikely to take your word for it, because that would violate basic common sense and safety standards- Tesla surely planned for "this is what happens if the phone suddenly reboots while the car is in motion" beyond "oh well, guess we just shut the engine off suddenly.".
You might have an argument that you reasonably felt it was an emergency- no idea how effective that'd be though.
It sounds like you admitted to the cop that you were indeed looking at your phone while driving. It's doubtdul that you have any argument here. Next time pull over first then check your phone.