when did this all happen? a 2018 isn't a new car. and when you buy a car you have to sign the paperwork that clearly lays out your interest and total payments...did you sign that paper?
The final paper was an signature and it came along with the 12.8% I instantly called and they just dismissed everything telling me to sign within 2-3 days or the car is being repo’d, backed me into a really small corner.
I called the dealership and they told me it would be marked down in price if rebought. I didn’t want to be down around 3k for no reason so I spazzed :/.
they finalized the deal with the bank, which I didn’t approve of for the sole reason that something might change.
If you haven’t signed the finance paperwork then the bank hasn’t paid the dealer and if the bank hasn’t paid the dealer the dealer has an actually sold you the car. Your car can’t be repo’d unless the dealer has transferred the title to your name.
Can you post a brief timeline of when you got the car from the dealer and when you signed the finance paperwork?
I already had the car for a week before the Epaper work came through so I couldn’t just bring it back without paying for the depreciation of the car.
“I got quoted at 5% interest by a representative at NFCU for my car loan for a new car. I stressed to them that I’m new to this and have no idea how the process goes and asked that nothing will change over the course of me buying the car they reassured me.
(I also work out the numbers in front of the rep for the payments and she sits there and doesn’t tell me about how the interest is ROLLING interest. I find that out after my 2nd call while trying to figure out why my rate jumped).
how? if you didn't want the loan you could have returned the car or found other financing. no one forced you to keep the car. have you looked into refinancing the car?
So I go and but the car, the dealership continued to finalize the deal with my bank (Navy Federal Credit Bureau) and I’m not sure if it was the dealership or NFCU, but someone withheld information. I get home with the car and about a week and a half later I see a notification in my bank app saying I’m sitting on 12% interest.
I called and asked why they said “the car isn’t new” Yet I wasn’t told what qualifies a car as new, I ask to have the number brought down to a reasonable percentage and they decline. I tell them I’m looking for a house and this is making it hard for me to even consider them for that loan then all of a sudden they can “do something about the loan. They’ll give me a better rate.” At that point I knew something was up. They were running my pockets to bring their company back on its feet after covid hit by giving me false hope. I confirmed it when I went and ran the loan calculator with my cars vin number on their website. It came up to 6%. The car already started depreciating and I knew I’ve already been down a couple thousands on top of closing fees and insurances i bought for the car. it would have been a huge waste of money if I just brought it back. I need help.