In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
As you say, sanctions on Russia would be dropped and the supposed quid pro quo, which Trump would trumpet, would be lower energy and fuel prices for consumers.
Trump negotiates a peace deal that allows Russia to legally annex all the territory it took in the east, forces Ukraine government to agree to give up that land permantly. ("The greatest peace deal in the history of Europe, many people are telling me").
New administration more helpful to Ukraine. Russia claims the west is preparing to invade as a result. Talks about the dangers that restarting the Ukrainian war would mean for European Security.
Ukranian government gets pissed at the consequences of the terms over the next few years, starts complaining.
Putin would create a big false flag attack just inside Russia which would be held up as evidence that the government in Kyiv was implacably anti-Russian and must be removed for the safety of Russia. Putin would invade Kyiv to decapitate Zelenskys goverment and America would stand aside. Putin would install a puppet government, with the medium term aim of breaking Ukraine into statelets, as he has done in the East.
Putin would have interest in maintaining Trump's credibility on the matter, since he'd Need Trump to keep NATO at bay for the duration of his term.
Trump talks about how ungrateful they are, supports Russian-generated conspiracy theories against the legitimacy of their government and their supposed intentions to restart hostilities in the east.
I don't think Putin would have the capability to pull off a decapitation attack even in 3-4 years. Their military has been rocked by Ukraine and the Ukranian forces are going to be on triple high alert for the forseeable if any peace were to be declared.
I think Trump would best be used to have them resupply and reposition rather than facilitate the actual invasion.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It might well go like that. But I don't think Putin is the waiting type. I think that if Trump won in 24, Trump would immediately roll over and have his tummy tickled by Putin into withdrawing all aid under the pretext of delivering a peace deal.
I don't think Putin cares too much about Trump's credibility within NATO. Putin knows that NATO relies on the US and he knows that NATO allies don't trust Trump at all anyway. Putin will do what he wants and Trump will justify what he must.
I think he's definitely the waiting type. Waited 14 years to start his war of conquest by invading Ukraine, then waited 6.5 more years to start it in proper.
Well, he wasn't really waiting. He invaded after Yanukovych was ousted in the Maidan revolution and Ukraine democratically chose a pro-European destiny.
It's not gonna work to have Trump actively trying to fracture NATO in the midst of a second invasion of Ukraine. If you want to undermine NATO its better to do so when you're not at war, and when you've got a dum dum in the presidency who is only partially and not fully blackballed.
Ukraine would still have all the weapons we gave them, unless they experience a period of major degradation between the stopping of weapons and the stopping of hostilities, which is unlikely. They would absolutely be in a stronger position to repel a decapitation attack in the future than they were in 2021, when they did.
Sure he would, once the supply of weapons to Ukraine was stopped. Trump would probably impose sanctions on European countries that supply weapons to Ukraine on the basis that they're prolonging the war and preventing the peace. Ukraine would be defenestrated.
Then he would suggest that some good NATO allies still qualified for article 5 defense. But as for the other bad NATO allies, "we'll have to see".
OK, he was waiting for this. He was waiting for Trump's second term, because the bigger prize was for the US to leave NATO. He held off invading Ukraine while that ultimate prize was still on the table.
That does not seem realistic given the blowback it would cause to other U.S. interests which would make themselves un-ignorable to Trump. Doing that would require a lot of other things to have already been fucked up like fully purging the military command and writing off most business interest in Europe. It's possible that it could come to that, but this is more of a Putin wish-list item than something that could be expected in a second Trump term.
I mean, it's possible to imagine how Trump might approach wanting to Sanction Europe but it definitely wouldn't be that way. Article 5 commitments are about GDP committed towards defense, not the allocation of defense materials. Ironically Trump helped Europe mildly boost defense spending by pointing this out in the first term.
I don't really see what you're describing as a split, just Trump saying dumb stuff he probably can't act on. All the other NATO countries would just be like, "....ooook, so... we're gonna keep doing what we're doing".
Where there's a will, there's a way. In a scenario where Trump stopped the supply of US arms to Ukraine, but Europe continued to supply Ukraine, its possible to imagine Trump arguing that European NATO allies had over extended themselves and no longer had the weapons to maintain their article 5 commitments. So which is it to be, abandon article 5 or abandon Ukraine?
Complaining about the allocation of weapons is just a pretext. As I said, where there's a will - to undermine NATO - there's a way. There will be ways to attack NATO and Trump will exploit them. That was just one example scenario. As is usually the case with Trump, reality will be more bizarre and more stupid that we can possibly imagine in advance. However we can predict the direction of travel; he will attack NATO and use whatever pretext he can to reduce America's role in NATO.
If the US president is openly questioning article 5, NATO is in deep deep trouble. Estonia and Latvia would feel very uncomfortable indeed.
Trump could create a split between NATO in the US for sure, I was referring to a split within the rest of NATO. If Trump is president again, and starts causing trouble like that, the rest of NATO will look inward to itself for its own mutual continuation. The rest of Europe is not going to back out of the agreement.
This is how I thought Russia was going to gradually annex Ukraine by taking a chunk at a time like Crimea then the eastern sections, fortify, then take more. I remember a video or story about a farmer and each day his fence would be moved a little farther to the west with troops sitting on the other side. Annexation by gradual encroachment.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Yeah, sending more military aid would end the conflict. Russia cannot expend endless blood and treasure on this war. Whereas for Ukraine the war is existential. They will fight to the last man woman and child.
He's not going to deploy a tactical nuke. His partners won't let him. He's heavily reliant on China and to a lesser degree India and they will cut him off if he does that; and they've told him as much privately, which is why he reined back on the nuclear sabre rattling he was engaged with a few months ago.
The detterence capability of NATO without the US is questionable, and that question would upend the balance of power in Europe, in Russia's favour.
We're backing democracy against tyranny. It's the right thing to do and it's the pragmatic thing to do, because tyranny has an irritating habit of not staying where it is. Tyranny just loves to travel.
This is no longer about what Putin can or can't afford, it's about what he can and can't achieve. He has limits imposed on his actions, just like Ukraine does.
Not necessarily (I presume you're referring to the US war in Afghanistan). Different terrain. Different religion. Different objectives. In Afghanistan, America tried to overthrow the taliban government and create a democratic state. In Ukraine, America is helping the democratically elected government withstand a war of aggression from a neighboring country. So, very different in my mind.
Even if he did use a tactical nuke, it'd make no difference to ukranians. They're being killed now anyway. They would fight on.
But he's not going to. Why wouldn't he have used a tactical nuke hitherto? Hes got lots and he could have used them to completely change the calculus of the war. Ukraine isn't in NATO. Why hasn't he used tactical nukes already?
If push comes to shove and the war is lost, Putin will have to go, and some other FSB apparatchik will give a fresh new face to the same tired old fascist kleptocracy.
What we want is the same thing the United States has stood for, for a long time in our history. That is an independent sovereign Ukraine, [in which the government is] making their own decisions about their own future,”.
“We're working with them on reform of their military,” Mattis said. “That will be a lot of what we discuss today. The minister is leading the reform effort, so we're working with him. And it is … an ongoing effort to make sure that they stay independent and sovereign.”.
For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God.