I cannot speak about rest of Easter Block, but in Soviet Union speculative fiction did exist, and it was large part of my childhood and young adulthood.
Let's start with fantasy. This genre was probably least in the good graces of the regime of all. For the most part it was permitted only for children consumption and mostly consisted of the retelling of the folk tales and classical stories, often with ideologically correct twist. Good example is "" (1959), animation based on Lithuanian mythological folk tale. Original story tells about fisherman Kastytis, who falls in love with sea godess Jūratė, her fiancée (god of thunder) get's jealous, smashes Jūratė's palace, lovers dies (in some versions Jūratė survives and remains chained to the ruins of her palace). In Soviet version, bout lovers survives, and Jūratė denounces her position as goddess to live as mortal fisherman wife. Then god of thunder strikes gain and kills her, prompting Kastytis to denounce gods.
Now on science fiction. This get much more freedom, albeit still with limits. A good example of how science fiction was subjugated to the needs of the regime is movie ( Космический рейс 1936). Now celebrated as getting space travel surprisingly right (Tsiolkovsky himself helped with production), movie was only produced because Komsomol wanted to increase interest in space among youth. And was immediately shelved after initial screening, because censors decided that this low-gravity scene are undignified and harms Soviet image.
For example Nosov's "Know-nothing" trilogy. first book (1954) tells about childlike sort-of-hobits/smurfs and the silly shenanigans cosed by lovable rascal Neznayka ( Незнайка,meaning Know-nothing), second one (1958) have a magic wand as plot devise to transport protagonists in to the futuristic setting. And then there is a third one. Released in the 1966, Know-nothing visit the Moon, features extra-planetary exploits of our heroes were they have to encounter a capitalistic society.
Another popular series was Alexander Volkov's unlicensed sequels to the Frank Baum's The Wonderful Wizard of Oz. The first book (Урфин Джюс и его деревянные солдаты, Urfin Jos and his Wooden Soldiers. 1963) tells, about power hungry man who builds an army of wooden robots and almost succeeds in conquering the Wonderland. The final book- Secret of the abandoned planet ( Тайна заброшенного замка 1982) tells an amazing tale about how Emerald city had to fight of an alien invasion (Spoiler: They succeed because invaders were a slaver race and our heroes simply gave some magic potion to the interstellar Spartacus). I cannot comment on the other 3 books, as I haven't read them.
That said, I must stress that Volkov and Nosov were good writers and- despite insane plots- they produced a some good children fantasy (Know-nothing visit the Moon is worst of the lot, utter trash but it's interesting to read trash nonetheless).
As for the more adult-oriented fantasy, regime was far less forgiving. Even Alexander Grin was pushed aside during the reign of socrealism and only during the Thaw he was remembered. And his only crime was to set his stories in the fictional land. Otherwise Grin's stories a rather run of the mill late 19th- early 20th century. His biggest crime (aside from fictional land) was lack of politics- he wrote adventure and love stories without much regard for revolutionary ideas. His most popular work Crimson sails ( Алые паруса) is a sappy star-crossed love story, that features a guy who claims to be wizard.
Even Master and Margarita was problematic in the regime eyes (not only because of the Devil, but Bulgakov's choise of the dramatis personæ did not helped).
In short, fantasy elements could exist freely in Soviet Union only in children stories and anti-religious pamphlets. Otherwise they should be either an obvious allegory or a classical work predating USSR.
Just to give an example, move based on the Gogol's story (Вий, 1967) was an sensation among the populous of USSR, just because it was a mystical horror story about possession. Nothing like that was made in USSR before and it remained anomaly for quite some time.
The best remembered example of the early Soviet science fiction is- without contest- is Aelita ( Аэли́та 1923) by Alexey Tolstoy. Novel is about a Soviet engineer Los who builds a spaceship, hires Civil War veteran Gusev as additional muscles and flies to the Mars, where he falls in love with the daughter of the Mars leading politician. Most of the novel deals with this plot-line (stopping shortly to tell the history of Atlantis), while Gusev organize a revolution against Aelita's father regime. That fails. Hard. Two earthlings just manages to escape, while Aelita gets captured and imprisoned by reactionaries. Novel ends with Los receiving radio message from Aelita.
Okay, wow, yeah, those are WAY better illustrations than I remember from the English book! The ones I saw looked very amateurish. Not even like Disney, but like if a kid was trying to copy Disney.
I did't knew Volkov was released in English. And yes, Yellow Fog is one of this. As for illustrations, they probably were made by American artist, because original artwork does not seem very Disney-like, at least to me.
Monday Begins on Saturday (Понедельник начинается в субботу) and tale of Troyka (Сказка о Тройке 1968) by the Strugatsky brothers was pretty much the on the limit of how much fantasy elements one could put in the story and still get published.
What could be the reasons (ideological, political) of why the USSR censors favored science fiction over fantasy? Also, to ask you another question, you mentioned Viy, how did other genres fare in the USSR like horror?
Oh wow, was Yellow Fog Over Oz by Volkov? My brother had that book (in English), and if it's one of Volkov's, I didn't realize it had any Soviet history. I assumed it was just some American fan fiction (one of the illustrations looks like Mickey Mouse)!
The artists of all kinds were, after all agitators and propagandists, educators of the masses so the production they put out had to be appropriate. And what sort of socialist morale and values could we raise with movies filled of vulgarity and rubber sharks and about adventures of "some chubby princess, a village youth, an old knight of the Round Table, a monkey man, and two robots"? Such decadent filth simply have no place in healthy proletarian society.
That steamed directly from ideology of marxism-leninism. It was (and still) staunchly and unapologetically based in materialism and rationalism (at least in theory). In result, any art that at bare minimum insinuated the existence of irrational or otherworldly or magical were inappropriate. The same goes for horror and sexuality. Just for example from the Diamond Arm was long and well remembered.
The only saving grace of the Soviet censorship was never very consistent and that seems to be the point. The actual rules whats permissible and whats not were never clear and censor was often free to make shit up and stuff that was to alright for release/publication today could be stopped tomorrow and vice versa. No one was safe. Ever.