I did a quick search on Reddit about the same issue and this was one of the 1st ones I thought was .
Thank you for that link to the DMV to file a complaint I didn’t even know that existed! I had no idea that the DMW regulated auto repair facilities. I will collect information and file a complaint. Meanwhile I will still try to figure out how to pursue this currently. I think maybe the complaint should be done once I know the full extent of the damages after I get it back and looked over at the new mechanic. I want to submit a very complete report. Well, if I ever get the car back.
If they lost the key, they need to have another one made at their cost. That isn't a valid excuse to not return your vehicle to you.
Tell them you’re filing the report… With the DMV and with the police and see if that lights a fire under them. At this point you have no idea if they stolen the car from you or parts from it. You feel like you have been robbed because you have been.
I have thought about filing a police report but I felt like that was an overreaction and truthfully I am not sure what they could do about it. So I felt like maybe that wasn’t the right direction, but I don’t know. Because, we know where the car is, it’s at the shop… they are just making it difficult to get it back. Like, the transmission isn’t even in the car anymore. Key is gone. I think once they realized they aren’t getting any more money out of this car, they don’t want to do even a second of work toward giving it back in the condition they received it, even though they were the ones who failed to fix it. They tried to install a 5 speed transmission in my 6 speed car…. That’s a major error and totally on them. Now they just don’t care at all. They don’t want to tow it. They don’t want to find or replace the key. They don’t even want to move other cars to allow access. But it’s not exactly…stolen?
Thanks for the link to that post as well. I also did a search after the post and found a few other similar situations… I guess I’m really not alone in this.