/u/DGBD mentioned a few answers I've written in the past, and touched on a few issues themself, but I'll also repost this older response I wrote up which focuses specifically on the issue of Emancipation and the Confederacy.
So to sum this up, it is not wrong to say that there were proposals for Emancipation within the Confederacy, but it is absolutely wrong to say that there was "a well managed plan to eradicate the practice of slavery by mid-war, when they were on the winning side of things". There was no such plan in 1862-1863, and when even such a limited proposal as Cleburne's was made in 1863, it was shot down immediately. In Davis' words:
So there are essentially two things that are in play here. It is true that Historians debate whether or not slavery would have come to an end in the South had the Confederacy won, if the Civil War had been avoided, or if hostilities had been ended swiftly, prior to the Emancipation Proclamation with some sort of agreement that guaranteed its continued existence. As with any counterfactual discussion, there is no guaranteed answer, and you can find real, scholarly debate about just how long the 'shelf-life' of slavery was. (See, for instance "Would Slavery Have Survived Without the Civil War? Economic Factors in the American South During the Antebellum and Postbellum Eras" in Southern Cultures Summer 2013, which is a 'for'-'against' discussion between Stanley L. Engerman and Peter A. Coclanis).
When such proposals, whether of partial or total Emancipation, did finally become more politically tenable, it was only in 1865, when the Confederacy was on the ropes and its leadership fully aware that they were making desperate, hail Mary bids for survival, hardly legislating while on 'the winning side of things'.
For further reading on the topic of Emancipation within the Confederacy, I would recommend "Confederate Emancipation; Southern Plans to Free and Arm Slaves during the Civil War" by Bruce Levine.
And to be clear, the Emancipation in both of these plans was strictly as a reward for military service, not to extend beyond that. What other proposals that existed, which to reiterate, by no stretch of the definition can be called "well managed plan" let alone devised "by mid-war, when they were on the winning side of things", were embryonic. During the debates on what became the Barksdale Bill, for instance, avowed slavery advocate John Stringfellow, did propose a broad emancipation plan, but it was a desperate bid, in the face of impending defeat (Stringfellow writing to Davis in the winter of 1865), to preserve the system of plantation slavery in all but name, arguing that "if we emancipate, our independence is secured, the white man only will have any and all political rights” and whites' power over the blacks would thus remain "on terms about as economical as though owned by him.” It was not an idea unique to Stringfellow, at that point in time, as others had expressed similar sentiments in private correspondence. It is, of course, supremely ironic, since while such a bid, had it been enacted, would be unlikely to succeed, given the Union's position of strenh at the negotiating table that late in the war, but of course, in the end, the vain hope of some Confederate leaders, expressed by Stringfellow, would nevertheless essentially triumph in the form of Jim Crow, which while not exact in the details, certainly encapsulated the sentiments.
I thought I read somewhere (perhaps the forward to the historical fiction How Few Remain) that if the CSA won the battle of Sharpsburg the English would likely have recognized the CSA as a legitimate country, but there would have been conditions regarding the eventual abolition of slavery. Was there any truth to that, or am I just misremembering something I read 20 years ago?
But that isn't really the question at hand. The question here is whether there were clear, defined plans within the Confederacy to end slavery while 'winning', and such an assertion is outright laughable. At its founding, the Confederacy made no secret of how important slavery was to it. Pres. Davis in an early address to Congress, noted "the labor of African slaves was and is indispensable" to the success of the Confederacy. To be sure, there were a few proposals, but they bear no resemblance to this plan related above (which, ironically, sounds much more akin to the Emancipation plans advanced in the North). I've written previously about the _centrality_ of slavery to the , which, aside from, I hope, offering a fair window into just why the idea that the South would immediately be contemplating getting rid of slavery within only a year or two of leaving the Union to protect the institution, additionally provides some specifics for just why the above statement is so off-kilter. For starters, such a law would be Unconstitutional, since, while nearly a wholesale copy of the American Constitution, most of the changes, most especially Article I, Sec. 9(4) - "No bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law denying or impairing the right of property in negro slaves shall be passed" - are focused on the protection of their 'peculiar institution'. The most advanced plan which can be called "Emancipation" would likely be the Barksdale Bill, which was passed in March of 1865, and did allow for the enlistment of black slaves, hanging the carrot of freedom in front of them, but it was an abject failure. Not only did barely a handful of willing men show up, as they knew there was nothing in it for them as the war was nearly lost anyways, but it also helps illustrate just how divisive the proposal remained, if the retorts of those who opposed the bill are any indication. Earlier in the war, when a similar proposal had been made by Gen. Patrick Cleburne, it had essentially killed his career, given how unpopular the idea was.
So anyways, the main takeaway is that it was a possibility, but it wasn't something that was on the verge of happening, and only deterred by victory at Antietam (and the subsequent Emancipation Declaration). But of course, we can't truly know how things might have gone otherwise.
Roughly. The big threat with the UK wasn't their active involvement in the war, or their open support of the Confederacy, which were fairly unlikely. The mere recognition of the CSA alone would have been disastrous for the Union cause, or even short of that, the simple offer to mediate between the two sides, which is what France had tried to do, but only would if the UK and Russia joined in as well. Likely is the biggest stumbling block there, however, as the UK rebuffed the French (and Russia did more strenuously). To be sure, slavery played a part in that, but also just general popular opinion in the UK, where it was fashionable to voice support for the Confederacy in elite circles, but the general population was mostly seen as favoring the Union. This would have needed to be reckoned with, as too would economic factors... the UK was aching for the return of Southern cotton, but could make do to a degree with other sources. She was less able to make do elsewhere for grain, however, as a string of poor harvests meant she was heavily dependent on Union imports, where there had been several bumper crops, as well as Russia too.