Hi! I was wondering if there were any actual witches in America at this time? By “actual witches” I mean did any women self-identify as Witches? Was there any type of coherent Witch culture that these people would have participated in? Is there any records of Witch’s communicating about their craft with one another?
Aha- the question that shows up just about every time. The short answer is "No" and the long answer is "No, but...". So first off- its a No because the definition of a witch at the time meant someone who made a pact with the Devil. Other definitions of a witch- like a Wiccan or a Halloween caricature or a teenager named Sabrina- is not the same a what Puritans thought of as a witch. Witches in the 17th century were people who signed the Devil's book and sold their soul to Satan.
However, what that means is there were no witches, but there were women (and men) who confessed to witchcraft. Its very easy to dismiss these confessions as lies to save themselves in 1692- after all, people refused to confess were going to trial and hanging first. A confession bought some time, and it happened to be enough time. But that doesn't mean these confessions were only lies. Elizabeth Reis' phenomenal book Damned Women talks about the nature of sin, witchcraft, and gender in the 17th century. It is possible that some women who confessed to witchcraft internalized the idea of sin to think that maybe despite not signing the Devil's book, they've still committed sins and gave themselves to the Devil anyway, making them a witch. Puritanism and womanhood had a complex relationship and it could have led some women to identify themselves as witches despite not committing the necessary act of signing the Devil's book.
I'd love to hear about the transformation of the town of Salem into a tourist destination for everything witchcraft. How did this come about? When did this come about?
Thanks Dan I'm very surprised that the modern idea about Salem came so late, but interesting to find out the process in which it came there. I will be sure to pick up the books you've mentioned since historical memory fascinates me. Thankfully, in terms of sites to visit, I have visited all the 'houses' and I can't recommend them enough. The Custom House is fantastic (and free).
There is some great work on public memory and the Salem Witch Trials. While the modern idea of Salem as the "Witch City" came out of the 1970s, there has always been some tourism interest. I'm not sure there was ever a time where disaster tourism was not popular- people like to visit sites of tragedy.
For someone visit Salem in the future, what would you recommend seeing that might be off the beaten tourist path that is related to the witch trials?
Salem's reputation was permanently tarnished by the trials where people keep writing about it. Immediately after, Robert Calef, John Hale, Cotton Mather, and others wrote about the trials, detailing the events and putting their own spin on it. This didn't draw in visitors, but shows public interest stayed up in the following years.
Emerson Baker's book A Storm of Witchcraft has the best chapter on how this post-trials interest continued in the nineteenth century. In 1867, Charles Upham wrote Salem Witchcraft. Nathaniel Hawthorne's work in the same period touches on themes of Puritan New England. These books renewed interest in Salem, and in 1880, a visitor's guide was published. This is the start of a lot of tourist attractions and witch brandings. In 1892 for the bicentennial, the Essex Institute considered building a memorial which never ended up happening. The interest died down a bit, but never ended here.
There was a lot of torture to guarantee these confessions. I think convictions were more dependent based on the accusations themselves and the power dynamics at play, but confessions certainly moved things faster and gave confirmation. I say that since very few confessions actually named anyone not previously accused. For the most part confessors confirmed suspects were guilty, but never expanded the witch hunt. Since all the executions went forward without confessions, they really only needed confessors to build up the accusations.
As an historian of Scotland, my experience with witchcraft accusations and trials is couched within that sixteenth-century Calvinist, Scottish framework. In Scotland, you see a clear distinction between accusations of malfeasance and confessions with demonological elements; that is, the accusers tend to accuse a person because they claim that person has caused their cow to die or their crops to fail, etc., but the authorities rely upon a confession of making a pact with the Devil in order to secure a conviction. Do you see similar things in the Salem trials or was the malfeasance itself enough to convict the accused?
In 1930, Pioneer Village opened as the first living history museum in the country to celebrate the anniversary of John Winthrop's fleet in 1630. (See Jean O'Brien's book Firsting and Lasting for how this colonial era celebration was problematic. Fantastic book). Pioneer Village still exists today- (I even worked there) so there's been a continuous site for Salem's early history.
Later in 1944, Historic Salem restored Jonathan Corwin's house and opened The Witch House, a historic house museum that belonged to one of the judges. This site, the publication of The Crucible, and Marion Starkey's The Devil in Massachusetts, helped revive public interest during the 1950s. Then in the 1970s, Bewtitched filmed a few episodes in Salem. It really opened the door, Baker calls it "the Salem witchcraft gold rush." Laurie Cabot moved to Salem and opened the first witch shop which began the Wicca pilgrimage. The Salem Witch Museum opened in 1972 for the first for-profit tourist attraction and more businesses followed- many of varying quality. In the 80s, Salem began their Halloween tradition Haunted Happenings, and it turned into what it is today- some history, some tourist traps, lots of witch memorabilia.
There isn't a lot of 'off the beaten path' sites in Salem, but there are different experiences. Some guides will give a solid historical tour and some will give a sensationalized tour filled with ghost stories- you need to be careful to find what you want. I recommend anything named after a house of some kind- The Witch House, the House of Seven Gables, the Custom House. These aren't all specifically Salem Witch Trials sites, but they are where better history is done. The word 'museum' is used very loosely in Salem, and besides the Peabody Essex Museum, it tends to be tourist trappy. If there are weird mannequins, enjoy it as entertainment but run away if you're looking to learn something.
I can confirm that they make for an excellent date venue though! I had one of my first dates with my soon-to-be wife in one of the Salem witch museums with the weird mannequins.
Also, in Scotland, sleep deprivation was used as the primary means of securing a confession from accused witches. Did the authorities in Salem use this or other similar methods of torture on a regular basis?
These accusations of malfeasance certainly happened in Salem too. Neighbors brought up similar things like crops and livestock dying, family deaths after a quarrel, a wheel falling off a cart etc... These often led to the arrest but not necessary a conviction. There were very few people named that were not arrested, and even fewer who were brought in for an examination and then released. If you were named, you were probably going to be arrested and thrown in jail until your trial. In all the cases that advanced to trial, there is something that fits malfeasance in there.
However, the difference in Salem is that those who refused to confess were brought to trial first. What really secured a conviction was the refusal to confess while other confessors named you as a witch. None of the executed confessed (Samuel Wardwell having recanted his confession). This is what really made Salem distinct from European cases- the confessors survived. Had the trials continued indefinitely, they probably would have been executed too and its luck that it ended when it did.
But torture is a large part of that. Sheriff George Corwin tortured a lot of people to get confessions. John Procter sent a petition to the governor talking about how his sons were tied at their hands and feet to a pole and hung upside down until they bleed from their noses and confessed. Sheriff Corwin got to collect the jail fees owed by the accused suspects which essentially gave him free license to loot property. A lot of misconceptions about the trials say it was about stealing land, but that wasn't actually allowed. However, any moveable goods were up for grabs when the sheriff needed to collect fines, and he didn't always stop at the amount owed.
The European witch hunts and trials heavily influenced the Salem trials. Most of the folklore mentioned in Salem was rooted in European traditions. There was a thriving print culture between the colonies and Europe, although that was mostly European works sent to the colonies. However, Increase Mather, a minister in Boston, could walk into a bookstore and read recent religious tracts and books from Europe. He heavily desired to be one of those Atlantic intellectuals, so throughout the 1670s and 80s, he wrote to that effect- succeeding at it.
Its not just in the colonies that these works are published, and ministers like the Mathers guarantee there is a market in the colonies. It was always popular, and American ministers kept trying to increase it.
I'll start by just linking to this great reference by Margo Burns about so anyone interested can check that out.
First, I'll start with the burning. Salem never burned witches. English law forbid witchcraft as a crime against the state (it was like treason) so it was dealt with by hangings. European witch hunts often included burnings in mainland Europe slightly earlier than the Salem Witch Trials.