It didn't happen all at once. Not all indigenous peoples in North America encountered Europeans at the same time and the nature of that contact was not uniform across the continent. While the Powhatans and Wampanoags traded directly across the frontier with European colonists a short distance away, peoples like the Ojibwas or the Theoloël encountered either individual traders far removed from European colonies or received knowledge about the colonists second-hand. Most indigenous peoples were more concerned with interactions with other indigenous peoples until Euro-American colonists arrived within close proximity to them to lay claim to their lands.
The first cross-tribal alliances occurred very quickly, discounting those alliances that predated colonization, like the Haudenoshaunee (Iroquois). The First Anglo-Indian War in 1676, a.k.a. King Philip's War, saw the Algonquian tribes of New England ally together to push back against the colonies at Massachusetts and Maine. The Yamasee War in 1715 saw an alliance of tribes spring up in Carolina in response to paranoia over the English potentially enslaving them to pay off the enormous debts they had acquired.
A pan-Indian identity typically emerged as a direct response to settler colonialism. The first instance of indigenous peoples promoting a language of racial solidarity among indigenous groups was during the Natchez Revolt in 1729. Nancy Shoemaker identifies this as the moment when indigenous peoples in North America began to identify themselves as "red" in contrast to "white" Europeans or enslaved "black" people. The Natchez Revolt occurred as a result of aggressive French incursions onto sacred Theoloël (a.k.a. Natchez) land to use it for tobacco farming. The Theoloël called for allies against the French and used the idea of the "redness" of non-French persons as a rallying cry against settler colonialism.
The Natchez Revolt failed disastrously, however, because not all Native peoples bought into this rhetoric. The Choctaws were closely allied to the French but their lands were not in any perceived danger of being claimed by them. They received guns and supplies from the French and included them within their understandings of alliance and fictive kinship. The French offered a sizable bounty for the Choctaw to attack and destroy the Theoloël, and they proceeded to do exactly this despite Theoloël appealing to their sense of "redness.".
To add to /u/DarthNetflix 's fine points here: I've not come across "rojo" as a term for Latin America. Very briefly, throughout colonial times "indios" was used by the Spanish officially. With independence, due to the term's inherent connection with the racial colonial hierarchies, the new national governments increasingly started using "indigena" to distinguish from "indio". However those governments in turn continued to discriminate against and exploit native people (in some cases worse than before); so that by now, in some regions indigena in turn is seen as derogatory.
The Theoloël were scattered far and wide after the failed revolt, landing in places as far from their home along the southern Mississippi River as the Chesapeake Bay and Ohio. Their concept of redness found a home among the Native peoples of Ohio, especially the Lenni Lenapes (Delawares). The idea germinated for a while until a new wave of settler colonialism initiated after the Seven Years War ended in North America in 1760. Anglo-American colonists had begun pushing into western Pennsylvania and Ohio, initiating a brutal stage of frontier warfare. The violence of this conflict helped to highlight the difference between Natives and Euro-Americans. Colonists were already painting all Natives with the same brush, but Native leaders and prophets in the Trans-Appalachian west began to do the same at this time. A Lenni Lenape prophet named Neolin sparked a major offensive against the British colonists and laid siege to Fort Pitt in 1760, rallying an alliance of nearby tribes with a message about Indian identity.
Going forward, the tribes and peoples in the interior began to quickly categorize themselves as "Indian" or "red," but this always occured when directly threatened by and influx of colonists or the American military. Their sense of indigeneity was innately oppositional to white settler colonialism and to the white settler colony state: the USA.
- George E. Milne, Natchez Country: Indians, Colonists, and the Landscape of Race in French Louisiana.
Although I am really curious, you mention an indigenous conception of "redness"... was this something internalized and translated from Europeans? Or did they independently reach the same conclusion: That indigenous peoples are "red", in contrast to "white" settlers.
The French previously used the term sauvage, or "wildlings," to refer to the Natives. They understood themselves as racially different from Natives long before establishing Louisiana in 1699. Most Native peoples understood Europeans as foreigners at first, much like other tribes far away from them. It wasn't until after sustained contact with the Europeans that the indigenous groups began to discuss racial solidarity amongst themselves and against Europeans.
It seems that an actual color association of "redness" was an idea that emerged from the Natives themselves. It was very much in conversation with the emergent narrative of whiteness/blackness in southern Louisiana, which was a Caribbean-style plantation society. Europeans did not start calling Natives red until they started doing so themselves.
It gets really interesting when you consider indigeneity in South America. Indigenous peoples in Peru during the 18th century rebellions actually called the Spaniards "red" because they flushed more in the heat than the Native Peruvians.
So: depending on region and population groups, I've heard indigenous people use "indigena", "pueblo originario" or of course their own group's preferred name in place of those larger encompassing terms. Again though as you can see, we have to keep these colonial and post-colonial histories and discriminations in mind, often tied to certain words.