In preparation for reporting to HR, she needs to take a minute to document everything. Time and place, what was happening, what he said and did, what she said and did. This needs to be factual. No assumptions about what he was feeling or his intentions. Just describe he held my hand for about xxx seconds, he spoke in a low voice almost a whisper, he was very close to me maybe x inches from my face, he was close behind me and in my personal space, etc. She can describe when she was uncomfortable and backed away, asked him to stop, etc. The idea is to describe it in such a way that anyone reading it would say, ooh that is creepy, sexual, etc without her needing to actually say that. They can understand with other words exactly what the scene was.
This is not necessarily true. Depends on the state. Depends on their respective titles. Depends on if the company has a sexual harassment policy that all parties are aware of. Depends on if there were any prior complaints by other people about this douche.
This is egregious behavior. She should go to HR. She could go to the police if it’s truly unwelcome. The other managers should report it. You cannot make her go. You should not commit any crimes or you will end up in prison.
That’s not accurate. A company without any sexual harassment policy can be liable for the sexual harassment. High level managers can bind the company if they are the ones committing the bad act. In some states, like the one I practice in, companies can be liable for the acts of even low level employees for sexual harassment.
I would not horses it this way, but I would (quietly, internally) be super frustrated if no one reported this to me. First because it’s wrong. And second because as a business owner this can be a very expensive problem if I don’t have the knowledge to act on it.
HR often will give a warning and education when told. Then if it happens again, they'll fire him. Make sure she knows that if she doesn't report now, it may take two more occurrences before he's fired. She needs to report him now if she wants him to know there are actual consequences for doing it again. She's probably not his first victim.