In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
As the primaries continued, various groups tried to negotiate a resolution to the standoff between the DNC and the state parties. The Clinton campaign advocated first for the results to stand and then for a new round of voting to take place in Michigan and Florida, while the Obama campaign deferred the matter to the DNC, while expressing a wish that the delegations be seated in some form.
Because Hillary refused to give up in 2008 once it became clear she had no path to the nomination. She pushed hard on the DCCCDNC and got them to award her half the delegates she would have won from two states both candidates agreed neither would campaign in.
Aren’t they going to run into issues with some of these states? New Hampshire has their primary dates enshrined in state law, and with the GOP in control in NH, I can’t imagine they’d help Democrats by changing the date legislatively. GA is also a state where they’d need Republican help to move the date.
In the past when states do this they lose their delegates. This happened to Michigan and Florida in the 08 election. New Hampshire is far smaller than them.
What state would drag us left on economic issues? Maybe Colorado, which is likely to get a public option for health care. I’ve lived in blue states like California and it’s economic policies were pretty regressive (hence the fleeing of the middle class), maybe some New England state?
But it gives African Americans a first voice in the cycle, which they’ve never had despite being like 30-40% of our voter base. I would have preferred Georgia but it’s purple.
South Carolina has always been among the early states. They’re being rewarded for winning - but African Americans should be rewarded for helping us win the presidency.
Self described moderates and conservatives are 52% of Democratic voters. The prior starting states were extremely white (iowa and New Hampshire) and brought little representation of a national race.
If you consider the progressive front runners to be Bernie and Warren, even combined they were under 40% up to that point in primaries that were extremely white.
Representation can be a huge reward on its own. Candidates will need to discuss issues more important to Black people in the same way thet having it in iowa makes them talk farm policy more.
That’s where discussions start though. If you run on an issue you’ll probably need to address it as president.
Nevada was also a caucus. The DNC is being more Democratic by moving against caucuses. We don’t really know how Nevada would do in a real primary.
I was a Warren volunteer in 2020 and Bernie in 2016. In both cases they couldn’t crack the moderate wall of voters.
I’m not sure what else the DNC can do to reward them since this is pretty much the only thing they have control over.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Moderates went hard to Biden though. That’s the point, they aren’t loud but they do vote. And a successful primary has to appeal to them, along with whatever your core base as a candidate is.
Self described moderates and conservatives make up 53% of the Democratic voting base. Any winning candidate will have to appeal to them as well as a decent chunk of the liberal base as well.
Georgia was in the running and likely would have been selected if not for its extensive voter suppression. I actually would have preferred Georgia as it has a large African American presence.
It’s not so much matching American diversity as matching Democratic diversity. While African Americans are only about 15% of the population, they tend to support Democrats at 80-90% levels. That makes them generally around 30-40% of our strenh at the polls. And that group has been neglected in primaries for decades.
Michigan would be an ok choice as well with a 14% black population, though it wouldn’t give black voters a bigger voice. However given how strongly it broke for Biden we’d head the same criticism that it’s to support labor and other “traditional” Democrats. Illinois is similar though it’s never pressed to go earlier.
If we don’t let candidates spend in the primary it would cripple us in the general. Look at the concern in 2016 when Hilary couldn’t pivot because Bernie was staying in until the bitter end.
No, I’m saying that him staying in long after he lost prevented her and the DNC from pivoting to the general. I think the tactical errors that cost her the general would have still existed. Just explaining the funding fear for the general with a real life example.
But on a personal level I’d like to see it have been moved up. The state can flip (it’s not gone so bad like florida that liberals are leaving to cement a red majority).
Georgia from that list I support, but they scored low because of voter access. I like Colorado on a personal level, but we lack strong African American representation.
Georgia had a really good rating on those fronts. What killed it was voter access, which was something the DNC factored heavily.
Bernie’s issue wasn’t losing in South Carolina, it was not having a strategy to go after other voters when the field narrowed.
I’m not saying it’s about diversity, I’m saying this is about African American voices specifically. Latinos should be considered as shoukd all other groups, but they don’t break Democratic or turn out for us like African Americans have for decades. Letting a heavily black (majority black for its Democratic voters) go first sometimes is reasonable to me.
I support Georgia. And you can make a good argument the criteria were chosen to favor South Carolina, but Georgia lost because voter access was made a top criteria (largely also to knock out caucus states.).
Also I think Nevada is a caucus and the Democratic Party is trying to move away from that. It’s a big criticism of Iowa in the last few races.
His own internal estimates were off by 18 points for his voter turnout, and he wasn’t able to ride a plurality vote. He was never even close to majority support (the first few primaries, even the ones he “won” - he won at around 25%, vs Biden at 49% nearly outright taking SC.).
What did any of Bernie’s surrogates (or himself) do to try to win us over? Locally we were mocked by his volunteers when she dropped, whereas Biden’s folks immediately called us.
I was on Warren’s team and when she dropped was really shocked at his campaign letting Biden pick most of our voters off. And Biden wasn’t even on my short list when iowa happened. But what he did was make strong commitments on the SEC and other financial regulation that was important to her base.
Or maybe the 51% of Democrats who identify as either conservative or moderate were also a big chunk of that?
Yep, she fell in the same hole as Howard Dean - she simply couldn’t grow her base beyond highly educated voters, and hit about a 20% wall. Most candidates historically drop around Super Tuesday as donors stop contributing to those without a good chance of winning.
I think 08 which was competitive to the wire and 16 where there were only two well funded candidates have made folks forget what earlier campaigns were like.