From what OP is saying it sounds like they are from the Bureau of Housing. From what little I understood they do hotel and multi-family house inspections every 5 years.
To expand on this, it could be that the landlord is renting you an illegal unit. That could mean many things but it could be that they have illegally converted a garage into rooms to rent or something like that. If that's the case, your unit could be flagged as illegal to rent, which will likely result in your lease getting terminated.
It might be that it is in OPs best interest because it's illegal in some way and OP is unknowingly benefiting from it. On the other hand it could be illegal or dangerous and OP loses out by not having the inspector. I doubt the benefits outweigh the cons though.
Whether it is an illegal unit is a fact intensive inquiry. Some hints are: Do you live in a converted basement, attic, or backyard building? Does each room have proper bathroom facilities and electrical, or does the place have an usual layout? A NJ lawyer could help you answer these questions.
On the other hand, there could be something wrong with the place that the inspector will make the LL fix to your benefit. Making him install carbon-monoxide detectors, ensuring working fire alarms, etc.
Once upon a time it used to be something like 75% of units needed to be inspected but I'm fairly certain the most recent time they now require 100%. Typically the landlord would incur the fine, but he may try to pass that on to you if he claims you denied the inspector access. Don't quote me on the legality of that though. I guess it depends on how much you trust your landlord. Either way it is in the landlord's best interest to allow the inspection to happen. Even if he fails on certain aspects he will be given time to rectify the issues before fines are assessed.
In such a case it could be argued that the state has an interest in not allowing illegal units to be rented but both you and your landlord would rather just rent it anyway because the arrangement works for you. If that were the case and you knew it (which you don't at this time), then refusing the inspector might be in your interest.