Do you have any auto insurance of your own? Most policies will cover vehicles borrowed or rented by the policyholder.
How long had you been granted use of the car while your mom was on vacation? If it was more than a couple days, Progressive absolutely can deny your claim.
Progressive isn't holding you liable. They're just not covering it, meaning you might be stuck making payments on a wrecked car. What you really need to do is review your mom's policy to make sure your use of the car was not covered, and if it actually should have been covered, you can hire a bad faith insurance attorney to take Progressive to task. Whatever insurance regulations apply in IL would be what govern the policy since it was written for that state.
First, insurance is not only for the car, it's also for the driver. For more than extremely occasional use, such as running an errand while visiting the owner, all regular drivers MUST be listed on the policy to be covered. The driver is really the biggest source of liability, cars generally don't wreck themselves. If you don't have the greatest driving or claim record, even just being a young driver under the age of 25, the premiums would be substantially higher if you were listed as a driver on the policy. Not paying the appropriate premium for the coverage you needed means you can be denied coverage altogether.
Second, insurance rates depend on the state and even the address where a car is garaged. So yes, the denial could have something to do with the car being insured at an IL address and winding-up in a wreck in CA if it's clear it has spent an extended period of time there.
Did your mom leave it with you in CA for your extended use? That's an even stronger case for denial of the claim.
If you are not insured, you have to pay. But this will not financially ruin you. You can continue making the monthly payments on the car. You don’t have to pay up front.
i have another car. my dad told me i had nothing to worry about on the claim. honestly my dad fucked me over on this completely. i sent him the money to cover the premium (this should have included me under the policy) and he didn’t. knowing i’m not under the insurance and the fact that i’m paying for it myself and not him just sickens me knowing that my own father has essentially ruined me financially. it wasn’t until today that i found out i wouldn’t be covered. so i bought another car with the rest of the money i had saved up thinking the honda i totaled would be paid out for. so i’m now going to be stuck making payments on 2 cars. be straight up lied to me and told me i had coverage when i don’t. and now it looks like there’s nothing i can do about this situation. i’m sick to my stomach.