To start, it is worth putting one thing right: Argentina is much, much richer today as in 1890. Their RGDP/capita in 1890 is $4,245 (2011 $GK) and in 2016 it was $18,875. So, real income per person is about 4.5 times higher today than it was then. Of course, as jumped-up plains apes (as Brad DeLong says) we are obsessive about relative wealth, so we remember the 1890s as a time when Argentina was rich, and today we think of Argentines as poor (though they are still well, well above the global average GDP/cap!) But the actual living standards of modern Argentines, after 130 years of "failure" is vastly higher than it was back then.
But still, as a % of US real GDP, Argentina has fallen from about 85% of US GDP to about 30%, so that's a pretty big relative decline. There is obviously something to explain here.
We should also look at things things in regional context. Argentina's economic performance is only slightly worse than the rest of Latin America, and most of that is down to how far head it was in the early 1890s. Uruguay, right next door with very similar economic and demographic structure, performs almost exactly the same. The overall pattern is not so far out of line with the rest of Latin America, though always starting higher and usually growing a bit slower. So, Argentina is not really an exceptional case, except insofar as there was this brief window in which people thought it ought to be, which is exactly the end of the 19th century.
It is also worth putting things in temporal context. The late 19th C. was a time of historically high terms of trade for primary producers. Prices for foodstuffs and the inputs into industrial processes were high, and the prices of manufactured goods had been driven down by industrialization in Europe and parts of North America. Those places with factor endowments that allowed them to produce these goods and export them, saw their incomes increase enormously. For Argentina, this meant cattle products (hides and meat), wool and wheat. (Argentina is not even the most extreme example - just look at the unbelievable boom and bust of the Manaus rubber boom, or the collapse of the guano and nitrates industry on the West Coast!) Other countries that share this quality - Uruguay, but also Canada, Australia, and the US midwest - also do extremely well in this period.
This means that GDP per capita as measured in those places was very high, but it is worth remembering that quite a lot of this is a price effect rather than "deep roots" development. It wasn't that Argentina had fabulous education, efficient and non-corrupt government, robust finances, self-sustaining scientific and technological growth, and so on. It was that they had land, and the stuff land could produce. In the words of Carlos Diaz-Alejandro, they had won the "commodity lottery." If we are beginning our analysis from this point, then of course Argentina seems very rich, and the question is "what the hell happened." But it is a bit of an unusual starting point, in terms of the international economy.
One thing that happened was migration. Land abundance led to high wages, and high wages pulled migrants from Southern and Eastern Europe. This increased the overall size of the Argentine economy, and probably benefited almost everyone, but it suppressed wage growth. (The US also sees this effect, but growth there was so rapid and self-sustaining that it overwhelms the negative effect on wages. Nevertheless, a US without migration would probably have been even richer per person, though much smaller.).
WWI was a big problem for Argentina. Britain had long been the major market for Argentine products, and the source of foreign investment. The war forced Britain to liquidate much of its international portfolio, and was in a far weaker position to make the investments that supported Argentine growth. The US replaced some of that investment, but not all of it. The domestic financial system was fragile, local savings were surprisingly low, the government ran perennial deficits, and growth could only therefore be sustained by injections from abroad.
Another thing that happened were international capital flows. There were enormous opportunities to be had in financing the development of railroads, ports, urban infrastructure, meat packing plants, and so on. The stocks and bonds that financed all this were floated in London, and while the Argentine elite took a plenty large share and collaborated closely in these investments, there is no question: the high incomes in Argentina were in many respects a product of the high rates of investment. The money switched on the opportunities, but it also meant that sustaining this level of growth was dependent on continued flows of international capital.
From the 1890s, the fortunes of primary commodity producers starts to shift. Mechanisation comes to agriculture (tractors, harvesters, fertilisers) which creates competition for primary production. Victorian-era "free trade" starts to slide into protectionism. The terms of trade start to shift back towards industrial goods. In some Latin American countries, this led to the beginnings of industrialisation, with imports of bulky and low-value manufactures replaced by local production. But for Argentina, only Buenos Aires was a very large market, and it had both relatively high wages, and a strong trade relationship with Britain, the world's most industrial country. The fall in primary product prices starts to take the edge off of Argentina's economy. Argentina's land advantage was no longer so much of an advantage.
This might have been fine - developing economies frequently take on large debts - except for the Great Depression. While the depression did not completely demolish the Argentine economy, as it did to Chile, it was a severe shock. Capital flows suddenly stopped and reversed; what was once new and more money flowing in every year, became a burden of repayment every year with no new loans, and difficulty even rolling over the old ones. Tariff barriers went up everywhere, including Britain; this is the context for the Roca-Runcimann treaty, negotiating an Argentine "exception" to the general system of Imperial preference that Britain was establishing in response to the global trade war. (As a side note, Argentina did not entirely default on its debt obligations in the Great Depression, and was largely one of the "well-behaved" creditors of the 1930s. But much like the French reputation for military bravery, popular imagination forgets those bits.).
The real trouble starts in the late 1960s. Up until this point, Argentina is hovering at maybe 70% of US GDP/capita - falling behind, but not so far behind. But the system that sustained economic growth was creaking pretty badly. The "easy" stage of import substitution was becoming exhausted, and the "hard" stage of higher value-added, higher technology manufacturing required resources that Argentina was hard pressed to provide. Productivity was low compared with wages and so manufactured goods were not export competitive, and had to be protected behind tariff and non-tariff barriers. Competition was very modest, with few pressures to improve efficiency.
With the "turning inward" of the global economy in the 1930s, Argentina was on its own to provide internal solutions to the problem of economic growth. Industrialisation, which was already on its way with the increasing size of Buenos Aires and its influx of immigrants, and with the development of "industrial" meat processing, was given a massive boost with the sudden change in the terms of trade. Now industrial products were extremely expensive, and primary products very cheap, pushing investment into manufacturing. Since foreign exchange was at an extreme premium, import substitution was necessity, and eventually policy.
Unfortunately, Argentina was not similarly advantaged as a manufacturer as it had been as an agro-exporter. It was very far from other developed markets, and intra-Latin American trade was anemic. Buenos Aires might have been a lot like Chicago, but then there was no nearby New York, Boston, Philadelphia, or Toronto, and even London seemed more distant with closed world markets. Its educational system and literacy rate were good by Latin American standards, but not so impressive compared with Europe or the other European settler colonies. Its domestic financial system was flimsy and shallow. The political system was... complicated, and the internal question of who should be taxed, and how, was never clearly solved. The advantage that made Argentina rich was in its links with the global economy, and now it had to go it alone.
Nevertheless, Argentina enjoyed a post-WWII boom just like everyone else, with rapidly increasing urbanisation, a transition towards manufacturing as the core of the economy, and an improvement in living standards. This level of growth was sustainable so long as the first stages of industrialisation were being realised. Peron and Peronism represented a populist variant of the sort of urban worker/urban industrialist alliance that characterised many countries in the postwar. Politics was stabilised by spending, and so long as growth continued year on year, the system could keep going. But this was not without cost.
Krugman, Paul R., et al. “Developing Countries in the World Economy [with Comments].” Daedalus, vol. 118, no. 1, 1989, pp. 183–210. JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/20025224.