I'm not sure what you mean by "moneyed interests". If you're talking about the old German or Prussian aristocracy he was personally opposed to any political power outside his own and that of the National Socialist movement (he decreed that no members of former royal houses be given command in the Wehrmacht following the death of Prince Wilhelm of Prussia and the public show of mourning that followed in 1940), and he pointedly ignored friendly overtures from the former Kaiser in exile following Holland's capitulation.
If by "moneyed interests" you mean the "capitalists" of Germany, then yes he certainly supported them, and garnered their support for his movement prior to the election. In a secret meeting on 20 February 1933, that was fairly well documented, Hitler and some other top party members gathered with the representatives of some of Germany's biggest and most well known - to this day - firms in which he gave a speech about the importance of private property and the threats of communism (a telling counterpoint to those that attempt to disingenuously paint the Nazis as classical socialists), and then in a move that any western democracy would recognize pointed out that his campaign chests were nearly empty before leaving.
The donations made by these industrial firms were used to great affect by the barnstorming Nazi Party during the 1933 election which saw the electoral success they needed to eventually cement their power, and this success would be a great short term investment by the industrialists of Germany: following the election and later coup of the National Socialist German Workers Party there were no nationalisations of capital, Socialist and Communist Parties were purged, imprisoned and then outlawed, and huge public works and investment projects to combat unemployment were undertaken to further undercut political opposition as well as stimulate economic growth. Early conquests of foreign industrial plant was largely turned over to existing German firms and slave labor was increasingly provided as more men were mobilized for war which meant an essentially free labor force and record profits. German industry was finally subordinated to the war effort in early 1943, and production peaked in September 1944 - a mere eight months before the total destruction of the regime.
See: The Wages of Destruction: The Making and Breaking of the Nazi Economy - Adam Tooze, for further reading on the subject.
Follow up question: Can you say more about the extent to which the Nazi government allowed these private enterprises to remain autonomous or exerted control over them over the course of the Nazi's reign?
But for non-Jewish companies they remained quite autonomous. The Nazis had a belief in the importance of entrepreneurs and private property for the proper working of an economy, so they were opposed to nationalizations and state owned companies. Companies of course had to operate within the economic circumstances which the Nazi laws created, but that applies to all countries. The Nazis started to rearm as soon as they came to power and the military became the expense of the government. Massive amounts were spent and this obviously meant that German companies produced the materiel that was needed to enlarge the army. But they did so not because they were forced to, but because it was very profitable. If companies did not think that taking state contracts would be the right choice for their company they could decline them.
This could often be to the disadvantage of the Nazis. For example the steel industry invested much less into new plants than the Nazis wished for during peace years, even though they had enough funds. But they were afraid that the boom that was caused by rearmament would end and that they would then have over-capacities.
Because of the limited amounts of foreign currency, most of it was needed to import raw materials for rearmament, Germany started to ration imported resources long before the war. But the companies were free in how they would use these materials and what they produced with them. Their rations could be increased if they would use them to produce export goods that would earn more foreign currency or goods for the army, but this was not forced on them. So the decision if they would produce these goods still lied with the owners. Instead of applying force or threatening with industrialization, the Nazis preferred to offer very generous contracts if companies were otherwise not willing to do what they wanted. The state might provide very cheap loans or even a guaranteed profit, where the state would pay if the investment did not prove to be profitable enough.
The state interfered more as the war progressed, but state interference in total war is the norm in every capitalist country. It was expected that state interference would wither again as the war ended.
I found a brief mention in Domarus' The Complete Hitler but it had no excerpts. He cites Alan Bullock's Hitler: A Study in Tyranny. If you're interested though, Domarus does reproduce Hitler's 1932 speech to the Industry Club in Düsseldorf, where he tries to link the concept of private property to Nazi ideology (excerpted below):
> In that case, I must say one thing: private property is only morally and ethically justifiable if I assume that men’s achievements are different. ... Therefore one must admit that, from an economic point of view, men are not equally valuable, not equally significant in every area from the onset. Having admitted this, it would be madness to claim that, while there are doubtless differences in value in the economic sector, there are none in the political sector! It is nonsense to base economic life on the concept of achievement, of personal value and thus practically on the authority of the individual, while denying this authority of the individual in the political sphere and substituting in its place the law of the greater number—democracy.
This is a complex question, and one that has been taken advantage of by certain partisan narrators in an attempt to paint the Nazis as part of the radical left - no different from Bolshevism - based largely on arguments such as 'there's socialism right in the name'. Before getting in to some of National-Socialism and Fascism's basic philosophies it is important to understand the nature of early 20th century Vanguard Parties.
During the Great Depression the Weimar Republic had nationalized the three of Germany's biggest banks, Deutsche Bank, Commerzbank and Dresdner Bank. In 1936/37 all the shares of these banks were sold to the public, making them wholly private again. At this time they also sold their shares in the Vereinie Stahlwerke, which had likewise come into state ownership as a result of the crisis.
The national railway company, which was perhaps the biggest company in Germany, remained in state hand. But the Nazis nationalized other companies.
The Nazis believed that private run companies were much superior to state run ones and therefore they tried to avoid state companies when possible. If they did resort to state companies, they were still interested in privatizing them if anyone was willing to take them over.
Let's treat Marxism's argument of the post-revolutionary Dictatorship of the Proletariat as a posit. Marx argued that the industrial, urban working poor would become class conscious and overthrow the exploitative capitalists and their Bourgeois supporters in order to seize the means of production etc. Marx assumed this would happen in heavily industrialized and urbanized Germany most likely since they had a sophisticated urbane populace and lacked even paltry democratic norms for the working poor to feel like they had a say in politics. If we take this as the prerequisite for revolution (according to Marx) then this presents problems for revolutionaries outside of Central Europe - the most notable would be Vladimir Lenin. Russia was almost the antithesis of Germany: an almost entirely rural, agricultural based economy without a sophisticated urbane working class able to develop the class consciousness Marxism requires for a successful revolution. So the logical workaround was to create a party of professional revolutionaries that would affect a top-down revolution, and once that was accomplished use social engineering to create the class conscious society to build socialism (this method would go on be the only really successful revolutionary method despite its rejection of classical Marxist philosophy). Lenin built a strictly regimented and absolutely ideologically pure party which shunned and purged members that deviated from the accepted party line, and won power in Russia with such a ruthless organization.
That being said, the propaganda aimed at ordinary Germans by the regime equated both the Western Democracies and the Soviet Union to being controlled by 'Jews' bent on the destruction of European Culture (represented by Germany). It is hard to believe that the regime would have had a vested interest in the term Socialism as having a serious reaction amongst the German populace, but rather 'Jew' and 'Bolshevik' were the terms used, and which were meant to elicit fear and hate.