The oath of commission he took can be argued to have provided authority for his departure from the US Army (and of course the oath was changed in 1862 to remove this... flexibility of interpretation of loyalties), but the argument starts to falter a bit if Virginia remained with the Union. Firstly, as a procedural matter, as a US Army regular, I believe he would have been kept under the Union Regulars, not drawn back to the colors of the Commonwealth. Secondly, with VA remaining in the union, there is much less flexibility open to him if he is to remain true to his word.
Lee did a little to rebuild this image, though, he died only about five years after his surrender, and mostly stayed out of the spotlight, by his own choice. It was other Lost Causers, after Lee's death, that did most of the work in rehabilitating his public image.
Before joining the Confederacy, Lee definitely did try to paint his motivations as noble, even though there are reasons to be skeptical of his statements, which I have written about in a comment in this sub before . In the same thread, /u/Georgy_K_Zhukov gives some further analysis . In short, Lee claimed a loyalty to his state over nation as his motivation, rather than any political motivation, but his subsequent actions show that he wasn't particularly loyal to his whole state, just the side he supported politically. There's reason to believe he would not have followed Virginia onto the battlefield had the state stayed loyal to the Union.
After the war, there are a couple things he did that can be considered efforts to rehabilitate his image. First, less than a month after surrendering, he granted an interview to a reporter of the New York Herald newspaper, which was the leading Copperhead (Southern-sympathizing Democratic) newspaper in the North. You can see the original interview . In it, Lee says that the question of slavery has been settled, and makes a rather insincere statement that Southern slaveholders had been "anxious" to end slavery for quite some time, and the war was incidental to the subject. He also takes the opportunity to condemn the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, which had occurred just two weeks earlier. And as such, he also claims to now be a "national man" who believes the war is lost (there were still some Southern armies out west who hadn't yet surrendered), so it is time for everybody to support the U.S. federal government in their efforts to bring reconciliation.
The whole interview, in fact, is rather self-serving, because, at that point, he was far from the beloved figure he later came to be. At the time, many Northern newspapers were calling for his trial, imprisonment, and execution, as I have written about . One thing that fed into the later "noble Lee" narrative, but was widely criticized at the time, was his posing for some photographs in his full Confederate military uniform after his surrender. And this he did on the very day he heard about Lincoln's assassination. This brought a lot of scorn upon him when the news of the photo session and what he'd worn were reported in the Northern press. But these photos would later be used as some of the most iconic images of the man. He wanted to look the part of the honorable, but fallen battlefield general, rather than the defeated, traitorous civilian, dressed in a plain suit like any other common American might wear on the street—or on their way to their criminal trial.
A couple years later, he made another, brief attempt to rehabilitate his image when he was compelled to testify before a Congressional subcommittee on the subject of Reconstruction in Virginia. In that venue, he repeated many of his claims in his New York Herald interview, that slavery was a dead letter in the South, and that Southerners were ready to move on as part of a loyal United States.
Yet, there were still some problematic statements he made in this Congressional testimony that often get overlooked — notably, that he believed it would be better for all involved if all black Americans were forcibly moved out of Virginia (and the South), possibly as part of a deportation or resettlement scheme in Africa or out West. This was a plan that had been popular among moderate Republicans and Northern Whigs in the decades before the war ("colonization" as it was called), but he was making these statements after slavery had already ended through Constitutional amendment. By this time, Congress had already passed the 14th Amendment, too, and it was winding its way through the states for ratification. The 14th Amendment made any sort of "colonization" scheme unconstitutional and illegal. Yet once again, as Lee attempted to project a loyal and forward-thinking public image, he found himself on the wrong side of history yet again, and he was criticized for it in the Northern press.
In fact, in a surviving letter, Ulysses S. Grant privately criticized Lee's behavior during this period, and Grant's view was surely held by many in the North. Lee's concilation was "setting an example of forced acquiescence so grudging and pernicious in its effects," wrote Grant, "as to be hardly realized".
Thus, while Lee did make a few efforts to rehabilitate his image (and not just out of pride, but out of a real possibility that he would be prosecuted in federal court), it was mostly others who did the heavy lifting. In the opening chapter of historian Alan T. Nolan's 1991 book Lee Considered: General Robert E. Lee and Civil War History, the author explored the "Mythic Lee" and briefly describes how his rehabilitated image came to be. It was mostly done by Lost Causers in the aftermath of the war, looking for a hero that could deflect away from the treason and slavery discussions then dominating the political discourse. The success was not instant, but the myth gained traction over the following decades. Writes Nolan:
In the closing chapter of Nolan's book, entitled "The Lee Tradition and Civil War History", Nolan writes an essay on the same subject as Fishwick does. To summarize, it essentially says that, after his death, Lee was "exalted", that even respectable biographers would mingle their careful research alongside "every anecdote" they could find, "including second- and thirdhand accounts originating long after the fact, that portray their subject as superhuman: Lee rescuing a baby bird under enemy fire, Lee succoring a wounded Federal soldier, Lee carrying a child from a burning building, Lee playing with children during the war, Lee stopping to pray with soldiers in the face of Federal artillery fire, Lee's godlike physical appearance.".
Connelly, Thomas L. The Marble Man: Robert E. Lee and His Image in American Society. Louisiana State University Press, 1977.
As Connelly writes, there were a couple less-than-rosy accounts by Southerners of Lee that actually did get published in the 1870s. But these two authors (Confederate veterans John Imboden and John Esten Cooke) were "devoured" by the "cult" of Lee, even though their writings weren't entirely critical pieces. They were still shunned by their Southern peers because their "praise of Lee was insufficient".
Nolan points to the 1950 article by Marshall W. Fishwick as offering a historiography of the rehabilitation of Lee throughout the period between the end of the Civil War and the mid-20th century. (You can read the full article for free .) Fishwick writes at the beginning of his article:
Even before Lee's death, Fishwick notes that there were some sentimental and supportive depictions of Lee coming out of the South. As one example, Fishwick points to a collection called Southern Poems of the War published in 1868, which had writings of many Southern soldiers during the war, including poems they had written supportively about Lee.
In other words, whatever initial steps Lee may have made in the post-war period, they had not yet completely succeeded by the time Lee died in 1870. Still, even then, as Fishwick notes, "If the flesh-and-blood Lee was disliked by some of his contemporaries, he was idolized by others". He was a divisive figure, and as much scorn as was heaped upon him in the North, admiration had remained steadfast for him in much of the South, with the Confederate government led by Jefferson Davis getting more of the blame there.
After his death, Lost Causers wasted no opportunity to sing Lee's praises. By 1890, Fishwick characterizes this movement as the "cult" of Lee, with many, many biographies, military histories, and other apologist works that painted him as some sort of apolitical figure just trying his best to do his duty to the Confederate States, and all Americans could take pride in that.
To this latter point, one notable incident occurred when Robert E. Lee's aide-de-camp, Col. Charles Marshall, decided to write his own memoirs of Lee shortly after Lee's death, and while he intended for this history to be supportive of Lee, he also intended for it to be truthful. He successfully solicited some information %20%20lto%20Marshall%20VMHB%20Article.pdf), but shortly after she wrote back, he told her that he was dropping the project, because already, he didn't think he could write a truthful book without endangering his status among his ex-Confederate contemporaries:
So, already, when this letter was written in February 1871, someone as close to Lee as his aide-de-camp was recognizing that there was a mythology around Lee, invented for political reasons by ex-Confederates.
One he points out as illustrative is Douglas Southall Freeman's four-volume 1934-35 biography of Lee, which won the Pulitzer Prize. This kind of fawning, Nolan notes, would be unacceptable in any truly balanced account of any historical subject in the modern day:
Nolan argues that Freeman's book, more than any other, would serve as the guiding light for all subsequent works on Lee, for most of the remainder of the 20th century: