Much of your question is addressed in a recent answer I wrote . That should clear up most of part 1 of your question, and I'll suggest you consider it required reading before moving past this paragraph. The one additional thing I'd push back on is your characterization of Coptic Christianity as "largely dead"; there are something like ten million Copts in Egypt, plus millions more in other countries.
As for part 2, my previous answer addresses Arianism and Nestorianism. Catharism is poorly understood today because no Cathar texts survive. They are generally thought to have been a sort of neo-Gnostic sect (see below), which put them outside of any mainstream Christian group at the time. It has been suggested that they never truly existed as any sort of unified group. Certainly no Cathars exist today, nor did they belong to any of the groups you mention in part 1.
I know next to nothing about Bogomilism. To be honest, I had to Google the term after I read it in your post. I got a few flashbacks to my first year of graduate school, but I really can't tell you any more than you could get from Google or Wikipedia yourself.
I read your answer from the previous post and that's really quite fascinating. Thanks for linking it and giving an answer to part 2 as well!
The early history of Gnosticism is not clear. It may have existed in some form even before the birth of Jesus. But by the late 1st century, Gnostic forms of Christianity were spreading. The basic Christian message fit neatly into a Gnostic worldview - the world is full of sin and evil, and God sent Jesus here to save people. To the Gnostic Christians, then, the story went something like this: The world was created by a lesser, imperfect being (usually identified as the God of the Old Testament) as a way to entrap souls, which were created by the true, supreme God. The true God then sent Jesus to bring the secret knowledge needed for souls to escape from the world and return to their creator.
The problem with Gnostic Christianity (well, one of the problems), from the perspective of (non-Gnostic) early Christians, is that it represents a complete break from Judaism. The relationship between 1st century Christians and Jews was complicated, to say the least, but most Christians saw their religion as something that was firmly rooted in Judaism. The New Testament books, all of which were written in the 1st century, are full of quotations from the Torah and the prophets. Paul was a Jew. Jesus and the disciples were Jews. Additionally, Gnosticism usually denied the death and resurrection of Jesus, an absolute red line for many Christians. Gnosticism was condemned almost as soon as the Church Fathers became aware of it, perhaps most notably by Irenaeus circa 180 in his Against Heresies.
Gnosticism flourished for a time, but orthodox (small O) Christianity and, later, Islam, gradually supplanted it in all but its most fervant strongholds. Manichaeism (Saint Augustine was a Manichee in his youth) was widespread in late antiquity, reaching as far as China, and has traditionally been called a Gnostic religion. Modern scholarship has been more hesitant to call it true Gnosticism, though Gnostic influence at least is clear. Mandaeism, which may have influenced Manichaeism, still survives in Iraq and the Mandaen diaspora. It is Gnostic, but sees John the Baptist at its central figure, not Jesus. It represents perhaps the only continuously surviving link to the Gnosticism of antiquity. Later groups such as the Cathars are sometimes called Gnostic, or perhaps neo-Gnostic, a term that has also been applied to modern groups, most notably Scientology. But, much like with Arianism and neo-Arianism, the link is made in name only.
That same YouTube video on Cathars goes into some detail about the Bogomils and how Cathars may be a Western Europe equivalent of this Eastern Europe religious sect. Sadly though he has no video specifically about them; it looks like there are a handful of videos about them on YouTube but I haven't seen any of them.
I admit I didn't know it was that many. I knew there were still a great many who followed it (mostly in Egypt and Sudan), but I thought it would range in the thousands or just below a million, not many millions. Would it still be correct to label Coptic as part of Eastern Christianity or would it be part of Orthodox Christianity?
Having recently watch a video about a brief summary of Catharism by YouTuber "Let's Talk Religion", he mentioned it's quite possibly and debated among modern theologians and historians that "Catharism" was a term made up by the Catholic Church to label small religious splinter groups which they wanted to arrest and put on trial for their "crimes". Have you heard anything about this before and know if it has uch credibility as a theory?
I'm not seeing any difference when I look online between Mandaeism and Sabianism. For all intents and purposes, are these the same religion just with two names for some reason?
Wait, is Manichaeism considered a Christian ideology? I have heard for at least the past decade of schooling that Manichaeism was a blend of Christianity and Zoroastrianism, therefore making it a heretical, pagan belief outside of the ideological realm of Christendom.
So like with how we have to separate the general idea of orthodoxy (small o) from the Christian sect Orthodoxy (big O), is there some sense that there was a religious sect called the Gnostics (big G) in the super early days of Christendom and then gnostic (small g) ideology that other groups have adopted over centuries?
Coptic Christianity is considered to be part of Oriental Orthodoxy, which I believe is what you are calling “Eastern Christianity.”  There are half a dozen churches, including those (historically) in Egypt, Syria, Ethiopia, Eritrea, and Armenia.  They are autocephalous, meaning each one has its own leadership and none of the churches is subordinate in any way to any other church or bishop.  In other words, there is no “Oriental Orthodox Pope” or anything like that who oversees all of them.  Each has its own separate history, but generally speaking they separated from the majority of Christianity following the Council of Chalcedon.  They are not Nestorian, but they broke with Chalcedonian Christianity over similar, technical issues about the exact nature of Jesus.  I also feel I owe a correction and apology to the other Oriental Orthodox churches - Coptic Christianity is not the only group that is still thriving.  Oriental Orthodoxy as a whole apparently boasts around 60 million members.
Sabianism is not a modern term; it is a descriptor used in the Quran.  It’s unclear exactly who is being described, and I know next to nothing about Quranic scholarship.  But my understanding is that yes, it is generally thought that the term refers to the group we today call Mandaens.
Yes, I’ve heard the theory.  It’s been quite a while since I’ve read much about the Cathars, so I’m not fully up to date on the most recent scholarship.  From what I do know, I think it is plausible that “Catharism” was really a collection of different groups, not unlike “Gnosticism.”  Personally, I’m not convinced thus far, but do bear in mind that I’m certainly not any sort of authority on Catharism.  If it were to be convincingly shown that “Catharism” never really existed as a unified group or doctrine, though, it would not necessarily follow that the Church was aware of the full picture and deliberately invented a “heresy” in order to have an excuse to go on a crusade.  Church leadership may not have known much more about the situation than we do.  Unfortunately, there are so few surviving records that we may never know for sure exactly what happened.
Once again, that's the BAREST of overviews because any one of those paragraphs warrants an entire book of explanation.
It kind of depends on how far you are willing to stretch the definition of “Christian.”  It was “Christian” in the sense that Jesus was an important figure in the religion.  But I don’t think any modern Christians would recognize Manichaeism as being just another denomination of Christianity.  Certainly its contemporaries considered it to be a separate religion, not a heretical Christian sect.  Jesus was considered to be one of the chief prophets of Manichaeism, along with Zoroaster, the Buddha, and Mani himself (the founder of Manichaeism).  Mani taught that the teachings of these earlier figures had been corrupted, and that he had received new revelations.
Of course, something similar was going on with what we might call proto-orthodox Christianity (to borrow Ehrman’s terminology).  The religious landscape was incredibly complicated, and there really wasn’t any formal standard for evaluating heresy or orthodoxy until Nicaea codified basic Christian doctrine.  It took time for all the theological issues to settle out, and for authoritative voices to emerge that could help clear up what ought to be considered orthodoxy and what should be called heresy.