But I want to point out it was simply extremely fucked up when Trump allowed Turkey to massacre the Kurdish cities in Syria.
I've always found it interesting how little most of the world cares about the Kurds vs say the Palestinians.
If you look at how many Kurds are killed it is significantly more but it gets like 1% of the attention in the news or on reddit/twitter.
As a Sikh I have always been so empathetic to my Kurdish brothers and sisters. Our struggled are so similar. Everytime I meet a Kurd, and this topic starts, they always say "You're Sikh.. you know how it feels".
It is because their situation is much more complex, nuanced and involves so many actors. It requires a good amount of energy to understand their situation. For the average internet attention span it is too much. The palestinian conflict is also complicated for sure, but in the end it appears to boil down to Palestine vs Israel and the entire conflict is more easily understood.
I dont recall Israel ever trying to justify their actions in Palestine by calling them "complex" lol. They bring forth their own historical or political reasoning, whether you agree with that or not.
Were both victims of fake promises. Both fucked from both sides. Both chasing a country that will never happen. Kurdistan would be Invaded by all 4 borders. Khalistan would be invaded by Nuclear Armed Pakistan from the west and Nuclear Armed India from the east. We are minorities where they want none.
We also spearheaded the fight of the Invading Pathans and Invading British. Upwards of 90% of political prisoners who fought against British Raaj were Punjabi Sikhs.
They are basically a group with very strong ethnic bonds, but they have no nation to call their own. They are somewhat stateless and rub up against Turkey, Iraq, Iran, and Syria and have differeing conflicts with each of those nations. There are also factions with the Kurds that are more radical and conduct (or blamed for at least) bombing or partisan operations.
I suspect you are just using that word to make the token contrarian comment, as there was not anything else to latch on to.
We are discussing why the world seems to ignore the kurds while at the same time cares about Palestine. If you read carefully you will see there were no value judgements mentioned.
I also am no expert but I do know you could spend months reading about their history and still have a lot to learn.
The current order of the middle east reflects the US will, and the prior order reflected the British and French will. Because of oil.
2. Look up how Jordan came to be under a King, how Saudi Arabia came to be under a king, how Qatar and the UAE and originally, Egypt and Iran, were under kings. Spoiler: the British and French installed them or propagated them with their army assistance.