I've heard that there occasionally existed marriages between slaves who lived on different plantations, with visitation allowed on Sundays. Do you have any idea how common this was. If a slave was sold to a nearby property, is there any chance they might be able to occasionally visit their relatives?
This gets a bit more to the heart of /u/HotrodCow's question, so I'd be happy to expand a little on it. Marriage between persons who were enslaved at different locations was not that uncommon. Comprehensive records don't exist, because such marriages were not registered with the state, but Kaye estimates that the number of interplantation marriages were as high as 3/10th of all unions between enslaved persons. It varied state to state, and was especially influenced by the size of plantations and average holdings in a region (an area with a few big plantations, marriage within that community was common. An area with many small farmers owning 2 or 3 literal human beings, it would generally mean marriage across property lines).
There were three kinds of inter-plantation marriages worth noting. The luckiest were those who were given permission to live together, likely in the case of a coupe who were enslaved on adjoining properties. Similar to that was more broadly those marriages between enslaved persons living on adjoining plantations. In these cases, generally, a husband and wife would be able to see each other with some frequency. Enslavers were not overly concerned with their literal human property going off a short distance - traditionally it being the man who would journey next door to his wife's location. The third kind, an 'abroad marriage', is what you are alluding to, this being the situation where a husband and wife were enslaved at a distance they would have to cross other property, or public land to see each other.
This gets to the underlying nature of these unions which were - as in all other aspects of their lives - at the mercy of their enslavers. Passes were a basic requirement for any enslaved person out wandering. Whether day or night, a solitary black person wandering the roads of the South could easily find himself under suspicion, whether from a random white farmer he encountered, or the armed slave patrols wandering the countryside to enforce the racial order. Generally speaking, the couple would be able to be together on the weekend, and an "indulgent" enslaver might allow the husband to have a permanent pass for a specific day of the week beyond that so that he could always visit his wife on, say, a Tuesday, but that was no guarentee, and of course visitation of any sort was a right that the enslaved couple was deprived of for whatever reason an enslaver might fancy.
Additionally in that vein it should be emphasized that they they had no right to marry in the first place, and it was the expectation that the husband would seek the permission of both his own enslaver, and that if his intended, and he could be very easily refused. Even with that permission granted, he would have to negotiate his ability to visit his wife, on what terms and with what frequency, something which was entirely in the hands of his white enslaver. To be sure, enslavers were generally accepting of these arrangements as it was to their benefit as well, marriages creating community ties that ensured obedience of their human property.