In his article David H. Kittmann asserts that he was unable to find any case among the files of the Zentrale Stelle in Ludwigsburg in which execution was the punishment for refusing to execute civilians among members of the German military and the SS.
The cases Kittmann researched contain those of Waffen-SS, Wehrmacht and Police Men and as you can see in the vast majority of the cases, nothing or nothing major happened. The one case Kittmann found of a person being sent to a Concentration Camp for refusing was the case of a Wehrmacht Lieutenant who was sentenced to threee years in prison and the send to Buchenwald for "undermining the German fighting spirit". However, the major problem in his case was not that he had refused to shoot Jews per se but that he had in a meeting with his officers informed them of his refusal and compared the shootings to the GPU (the Soviet Secret Police and predecessor of the NKVD).
Browning's findings as has been mentioned, add up with this, with him also being unable to find a case where a member of a Nazi organization had been executed solely for refusing to take part in atrocities. Wolfram Wette makes mention of two cases in which members of the Wehrmacht were sentenced to prison because they had been found to have contacts to Jewish resistance organizations resp. Soviet POWs in a friendly manner, helping them and such.
Wolfram Wette: Zivilcourage. Empörte Helfer und Retter aus Wehrmacht, Polizei und SS. Fischer, 2004.
Harald Welzer and Sönke Neitzel: Soldaten: On Fighting, Killing and Dying. The Secret World War II Transcripts of German POWs, 2012.
Only recently, historians have discovered the eve's dropping protocols from German POW camps in GB and the US where military intelligence recorded conversations among the German POWs without their knowledge. So far, these sources have shown us that the majority of members of the German Wehrmacht had a rather clear idea not only of what was going on but that large parts of these atrocities were justified under the banner of Partisan and other warfare. While there was certain contention about the murder of women and children, there too, it is noticeable that under the a commander who encouraged these crimes and basically sold them as Partisan warfare, the vast majority of members of the German military regarded such actions as justified. Refusing orders to shoot civilians, Jews, and political commissars was in most cases not seen as a political statement but as a failing of character, a weakness. Thus, on the one hand social pressure was created to participate while at the same time, refusals were -- if lacking a practical political context such as friendly connections to Soviet POWs or Jews -- not seen as an act of resistance and therefore very much possible without the fear of "official" reprisal. If you were content with being seen as "weak" by your fellow soldiers, refusal was very much option without having to fear for one's life or even career.
I must begin, hopefully not going off topic, with a small premise because I think the OP wanted to ask a different question. The question is whether those ordered had the opportunity of evading them because downright refusing them in military setting was insubordination with what entailed. And while I cannot speak for the entirety of the German Reich, I will assume that the intention is about war crimes.
We cannot easily talk about a huge setting involving millions of people, over tens of different theaters. In such cases an approach through micro-history has proven useful and in this particular case the Reserve Police Battalion 101 is a prime example due to the intense focus on the work of two historians, Browning and Goldhagen, who dealt with this battalion.
The problem here is that we as historians in researching this question have to largely rely on official documentation of these cases, meaning that in a lot of ways, we only know of them because tribunals, orders, and courts mention them. Going along with Browning's thesis that for the majority of members of units such as the Police Batl. 101 it was the social pressure that got them to participate in shootings and other atrocities, it is therefore difficult for us to say what the unit internal punishment might have been for these people. In case of the 101 unit, most reported that they were afraid to be seen as the people who left their comrades alone with such a horrendous duty but that isn't to say that there were some forms of informal punishment metted out in the form of hazing or bullying within these units.
These police battalions were formed by conscripts which were not necessarily optimum for front line duty, eg due to age. Both Goldhagen and Browing proved that these were as ordinary Germans as possible, as to verify their value as an example random but indicative enough.
This is the point where Goldhagen and Browing part their ways. Goldhagen insisted on a murderous antisemitism specific to the German psyche, while Browning insisted on the facet of ordinary men who can be led to do - voluntarily horrible things in non-ordinary settings.
Both historians agreed that absolutely no punitive measure was adopted against those unwilling to participate. No direct disciplinary action, no indirect like undesirable transfers or even no overt hostility by their colleagues. Still peer-pressure did exist, nazi indoctrination also, so some kind of shame did exist as evidenced by the copious amount of alcohol employed.
So the answer it that first it depends: are we talking about a soldier refusing to advance in front of the enemy fire ? Or a soldier who refuses to kill civilians ? In the latter case, which I suspect you ask about, the answer is that surprisingly little if anything "bad" happened to them as far as official measures are concerned and while peer-pressure with what it entails is an important factor about the consequences, it should also not be hyped forgetting that it was probably less than what we probably suspect at least on the level of _ordinary men_ .