If you want to be taken seriously, you should hire a lawyer to write the cease and desist letter. It's really not clear from your post that you have a strong case for criminal harassment or intentional infliction of emotional distress.
As an aside, a knife is a shitty weapon for self-defense or "personal protection" unless you've been properly trained to use it.
Yeah a knife is a shitty weapon for self defense, but it will get the job done if need be especially if the other person is unarmed and untrained in empty handed skills, but big enough in comparison to me to prove that he is still dangerous to me unarmed.
But you’re entirely missing the point of the post, I’ve already done the research into this and I know that I do in fact have a case for harassment given the circumstances of the situation.
I do agree I should probably get a lawyer to write the cease and desist, but that would require me getting ahold of their emails or addresses which would make me come across as creepy.
What I want to know is how to go about doing this in a manner that decreases the risk I might be taking.
Why would you need their e-mails and addresses for a lawyer authored C&D but not for one that you've written yourself?
It's really difficult to give you solid advice based on the little information you've provided here.
I'm seeing a lot of definitive statements here that we'll just have to take your word for ("I absolutely have a case to sue for emotional distress", "I do in fact have a case for harassment"). So your best bet would be to escalate up the police chain of command and consult a lawyer.
The police (at least the patrol officers) in my area are associate degree owners at best. It is very unlikely that they would know more then then some other average Joe who has taken a interest in reading statutes. Some don’t even do that.
You can write a cease and desist for anything, and you can sue for anything. But to be successful in a lawsuit you would need to prove damages, and it’s not clear from your post if you have any damages.
The things that the rumors have lead to (both death threats and potentially could get me fired) towards me borders on the edge criminal harassment, and I absolutely have a case to sue for emotional distress.
So I did try to contact police about it and they said they couldn’t do it because the death threats where made over the internet through Messenger (and after looking at the statue for harassment that is actually not true) but I wanted the police to mitigate the situation because when I did go to the police it was because one of the girl’s boyfriends was trying to lure me to jump me. I had explained to the officer that outside school walls I was often armed with a pocket knife for personal protection and that I didn’t want to hurt the kid. The officer said that him interfering could escalate the situation so I never brought up the harassment after that.
Have you contacted the police? If they were making death threats and putting you through emotional distress you could contact the police about potential harassment/assault charges. However, suing for emotional distress is usually something that is connected with suing for other damages, so you would still need to prove damages to be successful in suing. For instance, if you needed to meet with a therapist because of the emotional distress, you could possibly try to sue for the costs of therapy.
I’m struggling to understand the narrative of what all has happened, and some of your previous posts about your workplace are concerning in the overall picture. Based on what you’re saying here (and as I’m understanding it), you don’t have any damages nor enough for the police to want to get involved. Your best bet would be to consult with a lawyer for advice and possibly to have them write up a cease and desist. A C&D would carry no legal ramifications but may help.
I do technically have enough for the police to get involved if they really want to because what the officer said to me wasn’t actually true. He just didn’t know that the statue for harassment does actually include situations where someone contacts you through messages.
Sure, but the police are not compelled to investigate any crime, and they are less likely to if they feel that there is not enough evidence for charges to stick.
So I see that a bunch of people are coming here to downvote me for whatever reason. Either this thread is getting brigaded or something else, but that’s ok.
Why would "a bunch of women" label you as a stalker? You say that "your behavior" shouldn't be considered stalking because you looked it up. What is it that you are doing?