I've had the misfortune of working with a number of russians in NZ. They constantly go on about how much better russia is than NZ, and how they would much rather be living in russia, yet they choose to live in NZ. No one is forcing them to stay here.
This is so common. My family lives in Norway and my mum had/ has quite a lot of friends from Ukraine/ Russia/ Belarus (she can speak Russian so it was easy to communicate, this was also before the war) and almost all Russians constantly complain about Norway and "West" in general while saying that Russia is better and is "more spiritual". The "spiritual" part is the one they constantly say and never explain.
Nobody is forbidding you to support Putin in most of Europe. I mean you literally had pro-Russia rallies here. But then don't be surprised if private people might not want to associate with you or employ you. You can say discrimination if a hospital is denying you a service, but you are not guaranteed a workplace in private business.
If someone wants to become an American citizen they have to sign a form disavowing communist ideology. If you're cool with that then surely you should be cool with another country asking people to sign a form promising to not gargle an autocrat's balls.
The ridiculous part is that most of them are in Norway 10+ years, have married to be able to stay and haven't even looked in Russia's direction.
I mean it's fine to not think that either country is perfect and maybe your "home country" is better in some ways, but her friend are literally never able to voice what is better in Russia beyond "spiritual"...
(post edit - thank you all for downvoting me to hell - it's a fascinating social experiment watching this gregarious behavior.
our lovely world would become fascist if we start discriminating like that. if this is unacceptable, there should be a law to forbid supporting putin.
I wrongly believed that one should not be fired unless is breaking internal rules or having low performance.
I've always been thinking that people need ways to vent out their frustrations, anger, hate and all the negative feelings.
I once knew someone who said the biggest thing he hated about NZ was that he couldn't grope women on the street like he could in the shithole country he came from.
Lately it's been mainly about how NZ government and media (and the rest of the world) is lying about everything going on in Ukraine and russia is the only country that tells the honest, unbiased, truth.