Not a lawyer. You should probably consult one. Best time would have been to discuss this with your lender as soon as you realized you would not be occupying the property. I'm not sure "my tenants didn't want to leave" is a situation so out of your control that the lender will be forgiving, but you could explain the situation and ask to refinance as a rental property.
I spoke with the lender when this was all going down and he said I didn't need to refinance, that my intent was still to occupy. I do not believe this was sound advice.
I am an attorney. I am not your attorney. You need to speak to attorney who likely specializes in real estate and is familiar with mortgage matters.
Like u/H_is_for_Human has already said you need to speak to attorney. This gets complicated. First, if you bought under the first time home buyers or other such program, you may have to look at your agreement or the law. Even if you rented it, you may still need to occupy it personally for a time period or be in default or similar bad status.
Second, it might matter why you rented it to them. Typically, as the owner you have the right to remove people from a property once the lease has reached its end. If your loan required you to live in the property and you simply chose an easier road, you are likely in contravention of that agreement. However, if there is a local statue, like there is often in large cities and more liberal states, that gives the tenant rights, you might have a safe harbor.
Overall, you really should not consider purchasing another house for you to live in until you have spoken to an attorney and rectified this issue. It may be as simple as refinancing the property and perhaps paying a penalty.
Not a lawyer, in mortgages. I do think you should speak with a real estate attorney just in case, but to be honest, most likely no one will notice.
What I would worry about is if you homesteaded for your property taxes, you could be in trouble for paying lower taxes on a rental v. owner occupied with the county/township.