In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The only members of 'The Squad' are those 6 who voting against the Infrastructure Bill out of protest for the Build Back Better legislation being decoupled and not passing.
The Squad refers to the small group of progressives pioneered by AOC, Omar, Tlaib, etc. So it is in fact growing.
The organizers have their names on the article, perhaps talk to them? They're happy to tell people how Frost betrayed their trust and loyalty.
But yes Dems will lose the majority, however, the far right will likely create infighting within the GOP. So whatever crazy bills they may come up with, they may not see eye to eye.
Huge disappointment for a chance at a decent progressive, but his support for issues is for sale to the highest bidder already.
'The Squad' happened because Justice Democrats was formed and AOC became immediately powerful and influential enough to lessen the upcoming US Speaker of the House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi's power. And AOC put the Sunrise Movement and the Green New Deal in the spotlight.
Edit: using right wing machine Washinon post is totally valid. This article isn't about the substance of the Maxwell Frost issue, but not surprising that you can't stay on topic.
Washinon post always promotes war, is solidly pro-israel regime and is rather anti-palestinian in many of their articles and leave out important context in Israel/Palestinian issues.
Maxwell Frost grifted his local Palestinian community, making pledges to never take money from specifically Zionist Israeli organizations (the ones who actively support apartheid).
Once he won the D ticket for the election, he immediately abandoned the grassroots base that platformed him by taking money from specifically organizations who want less rights for Palestinian living under the Israeli regime.
He sold out his Palestinian primary base to take apartheid supporter funding. His beliefs are for sale to the highest bidder.