I wouldn't pretend to know of every scrap of PhD funding across the UK that might hypothetically be available, but my impression is that funding designed to attract international postgraduates tends to be managed more often by individual universities according to their priorities rather than centralised schemes (with exceptions for a few nationality-specific programmes). Even then, only a relatively small number of research-intensive universities really have the resources to offer comprehensive funding packages, especially in the humanities.
My advice would be to consider broadening your search for a PhD spot and apply to universities that have funding you're eligible for. Generally speaking, getting into a UK PhD programme is much less competitive than securing funding. So long as you put together a decent application and there's a half-decent rationale for you being there, securing the spot isn't going to be the issue, so it makes sense to prioritise funding opportunities (and potentially giving yourself multiple chances to secure funding from different sources). Obviously, that's less useful if there's a particular scholar you want to work with, but even then it may be possible to arrange some sort of external supervision.
The issue is that most universities have roughly the same funding offers for international students, i.e. between 7-10 studentships for international students and that is it. Some may have 20-30% scholarships depending on where you come from but that is pretty much about it, so applying to a lot of Universities doesn't really increase my chances (plus there is a professor I want to work with).
Fair enough, I can't give advice about how important it is to work with that particular scholar. But my point about multiple applications is just that - any given university will have a small number of opportunities for international funding. You cannot rely on being successful at any one institution no matter how good your application is, as there are too many invisible, subjective factors at play (other applicants, funding priorities, departmental politics...). An application that succeeds at one university may not succeed at another. So, by applying to multiple institutions, you increase your chances of being successful at at least one.
Also, the deal with the supervisor is that he has done extensive research into a lot of the areas that I want to cover, the guy seems pretty interested in my project and was recommended by my previous supervisor (that and the Uni has the SWWRG, which would be mighty helpful for the research).