There are actually two accounts of this interaction that I know of and they are brief. They are the saga of the Greenlanders and Eirik the Red's saga, known jointly as The Vinland Sagas. They cover the same events, but sometimes collaborate and sometimes contradict.
The Vikings certainly did encounter Native Americans, providing descriptions of the new world and its inhabitants in specific detail.
While the sagas are very interested in the presence of wood (maple), fish, wheat, and "grapes", they are not especially interested in describing the natives. The best we get is from Eirik the Red's saga:
That said, the Sagas are thought to be written in the 12th century, but our manuscripts are only from the 15th. So, at best, these are oral stories passed down at least 200 years before they were written down. This explains the discrepancies between them, but not how reliable they are. In broad terms, they are reliable (especially since L'anse aux Meadows was discovered), giving accurate descriptions of the coastline from the St. Lawrence river to New York City, and details of flora and fauna. In specific details, they are much less reliable, containing indiscreet plugs for Christianity interspersed with superstition and witchcraft.
Aside from the Sagas, we really have no other contemporary literary source of the subject, and they really only deal with the initial encounter of North America. So we just have to take them with a grain of salt.
Afterwards, they discover some Natives sleeping in "skin sacks" by the shore and kill them. In this way, the Vikings display a very casual approach to the killing of Natives, considering their loss of life to be of little consequence.
At first, the Vikings traded with the Natives (Skraelings), exchanging milk or red cloth for pelts, although the Natives would have preferred the Vikings' weapons. The Natives apparently really liked both milk and the cloth, and traded pelts at whatever exchange rate the Vikings set.
Later, the Natives return and attack (for reasons unstated) but are resisted and retreat. Nothing besides small skirmishes are reported.
Also I have read the Thule considered the Dorset weak and without serious weaponry as they didn't really use bows and arrows. Do you feel it more likely the first encounter was with the Dorset or Thule that later pushed them away, particularly given we know it to be an arrow that killed Thorvald (from the saga)?
The weaponry is not explicitly stated, but it seems to have been arrows (the Natives were apparently unfamiliar with the axe).
The sagas do not directly mention the L'anse aux Meadows discovered in the 1960's in Newfoundland, although that site is close to where Leif made his camp. (see u/sagathain's comment below) Other events are thought to have occurred in Nova Scotia.
It is rather certain the Vikings did meet Native Americans, and likely they exchanged both goods and lives. The Sagas are the only record we have of their exchange, and they have very little detail on the subject.
The Viking law and political structure was rather complicated, especially in Iceland when they did not have a central power. However, they generally shied away from directly killing their countrymen (legally, that is. The Sagas generally describe the other method). Even killing another man's slave could cost a man a bit of money.
So, no, the killing of the Natives in the New World was nothing abnormal for the Vikings. But it is surprising (to me) how willingly they killed them, when they themselves were in a foreign and hostile environment, knowing little to nothing of their adversary. Especially as it is also recorded how difficult the harsh winters were, and how little food they had. But that is, I suppose, the boundary of another subject.
Comparing them to the Kvens makes more sense than comparing them to the Irish, in my estimation. (I'm going to leave aside the question of enslavement, as my understanding is that Irish people were.
On the other hand... Vikings have made it into popular culture as being some of the most brutal, fierce some, murderous people, ranking up close to the Mongols in their rape and butchery (details the Sagas describe nonchalantly as "going raiding").
The Thule people, like the various Saami and Finnish peoples that the Norse interacted with, were conceptually placed in a very borderline space between human and non-human by the thirteenth century. Finns are often compared to or inhabit the same spaces as trolls and elves in the legendary sagas, and the Skraelingar appear alongside a Sciapod, one of the Plinian races of monstrous humanoids.
In contrast, while Irish slaves often have secret or magical powers (see Eyrbyggja saga), they are much closer to how Norse people sometimes have strange powers or see portents, indicating a categorization that gives much more humanity and agency to Irish people than it does to Finns.
Which is a whole lot of words to say - I think we can compare the casualness of the killings of some of the Skraelingar in the Vinland sagas to violence inflicted on the Kvens or Saami peoples, with a fundamental dehumanization of non- "civilized" people intensifying from the 10th to the 14th centuries. The analogy is imperfect, since the duration and circumstances of contact was so different, but the way it was rationalized appears to be similar.
Did this conceptual break exist in the Viking Age, or did it emerge later? There are no written sources, even among the runic corpus, that would give us that kind of insight into Viking-Age Norse mentalities. By the time we start getting written sources, there's a strong bias against discussing Finland and the Baltic whenever possible (this bias is strong enough that the 18th International Saga Conference, which takes place next year, is themed around the Circum-Baltic area). As a result, figuring out what Scando-Finnic relations across the Middle Ages is actually kind of difficult!
Most of our saga literature comes to us from Iceland, not mainland Scandinavia, and as such the people who would have had contact with Saami peoples are not the people writing things down!
However, that does not explain all of the bias - after all, many of the fornaldarsogur (Legendary sagas) which were still written in Iceland do interact with at least the edges of the Baltic and Saami territories. As to what accounts for the rest of it, I genuinely don't know.
But, it's not hopeless. The links of the Saami with magic appear to be very old and something negative, but that did not prevent inter-marriage and slight, specific linguistic and cultural borrowings from Saami peoples to Norse ones (though many more borrowings from Norse to Saami are attested.) Additionally, some of the best-known geographies in the saga and edda corpori borrow Classical information and traditions, including an east-west axis where traveling east was going into a more "primal" space. As such, I suspect that the associations of the Saami with the monstrous grew more exaggerated over time, but it was still somewhat present in the 10th and 11th centuries, and using that as a point of comparison for how violence was inflicted on the Skraelingar makes some sense.
This identification is hardly certain, though, and efforts have continued to find other Norse sites in Newfoundland or the gulf of St. Lawrence.
This characterization assumes that it is known where Leifr landed in Vinland, and where leifsbuðir are located. In fact, the search for these exact booths is what motivated the discovery of LAM, and on discovery, it was assumed that these were Leifsbuðir.
And yes, excellent point, the location is not certain, although the nearby geography matches the region.
If my Icelandic had been better years ago when I made this, it would probably be Sagnaþegn - retainer of stories. Which turns out to be pretty appropriate for what I do here!
There's nothing stated in either of the Vinland sagas of them trading food, though (EDIT: I found out I was mistranslating an Old Norse word for sheep's milk My bad!)While doing that is entirely possible, the stated reason for the attack in both sagas is that a bull bellows and the Skraelingar, frightened, either retreat for a time and then attack en masse (ESR) or are frightened before trading (GS). At that time in GS, the Skraelingar want to purchase weaponry, which appears to be why Karlsefni realizes that they will return as enemies.