Having an out-of-whack official exchange rate lets anybody with preferential access to it steal money from the government.
This is what bitcoin was meant to help mitigate, but people turned it into a poor man's Ponzi scheme. When a regime changes money, or is replaced, your bitcoin would still remain the same. But that requires a stable bitcoin, which won't happen until the cheats and crooks are unable to move the price up and down at will.
Bitcoin by nature is a speculative currency, it’s value solely depends on what people thinks it’s worth, which means it can be affected very easily, while irl currencies have regulations to maintain control over their values. That’s why crypto will never be a stable currency, because humans can’t agree with each other and investors are too easily swayed.
I believe it will continue, and thrive when people forget about it. Remember, it's just a ledger; it has no monetary value.
The hype came when people made their own copies (doge, etherium) and started speculating on the rate of change. Dirivatives, speculation, buying on fake moves and hype, the "iron hands" turning into "diamond hands" nonsense, etc. made it a roulette wheel, and that's no way to use a simple ledger.
It's for quick transfers without a fee. It's not supposed to keep your nestegg - you should be buying stocks, etc for that, or buy property.
Secondly, crypto’s volatile nature has nothing to do with the hype that came around recent years. Way back in 2015-16 when bitcoin was only worth 600USD you can still see.
But yes, just as you say, it’s a simple ledger, and the modern system of centralised crypto trading completely defeated the purpose of crypto, it’s just a group of extremely speculative and volatile stocks now.
But until there’s a way to buy and sell crypto through decentralised means, crypto will remain useless in the real world, and there’s no way to connect crypto together with real world currencies without some form of centralisation.
The idea is to transfer some money to a new wallet for every transaction, use that wallet to pay for something, and never use that wallet again. Your money should be in the bank, not on the ledger.
The store gets charged, which is why some won't take cards for purchases under $10. They lose profit to keep customers, but they shouldn't have to. The banks don't need to charge high rates anymore, with modern tech, because they basically do a ledger themselves just with a regular database instead of a blockchain.