For general pottery making with normal clay, you don't need a mask. When you get into things like glazes you may want to use one. Goggles also aren't a big deal. You can bring your own apron, goggles, and mask if you like.
You don't really have anything to sue for right now, based on what you've said. You don't have damages.
There isn't really legal action to take here. You can complain to your school administration. What are you trying to achieve?
And if that won't work? Listen, I am in no way experienced in anything legal wise, but know that anything bad can in fact be solved with legal action. I am not taking any action YET due to little evidence, but will take legal action if it gets worse.
If you want to sue, you generally need damages. You don't have any, evidence notwithstanding. If your administration doesn't take action, there's a good chance it's because it's a non-issue and you're not in any danger.
We don't mix clay, but once we have finished said assignment, we do a fire and glaze paint them, and then we do another firing to complete it, and before painting them, we sand them, which is probably what caused this early warning sign of an issue. This is the reason I'm worried, but from research, I discovered that silicosis (or similar conditions) can either be immediate or come up slowly (depending on exposure) and I am only scared because I would like to know how to fix it. I wouldn't even be worrying if hospital bills weren't so expensive, because then my parents would have just taken me to the hospital, but just brush it off as me imagining things and because there is "lack of evidence." I mean I should know better than anyone if something is wrong with me, and yet I can't get this checked out because they simply don't want to. I am scared, and just want answers. Please, I need help.
Wet clay is not hazardous to your health. It is the dry clay that can be inhaled and cause issues. As a student I doubt you are cleaning up or mixing the clay.
Please, I just am doubt mostly because I have no idea about what to do because this is a first. I am only scared because everything from my nightmare and then my heart (which is now ok) and now this.. I am feeling better and will delete this post, but I do still want suggestions. It really makes me feel better to talk to people about my problems. ALSO I forgot to mention I have history with asthma, so there is that as well.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.