Unrelated to this, make sure you and your wife have renters insurance! It does add a monthly bill, but will cover you if/when something happens to the apartment (like it burning down due to the neighbor).
Here is an ancient post I saved years ago of the kinds of notes or photos to help back up an insurance claim. Hopefully it's not needed, but better to be safe than sorry.
Keep receipts as well. Scan them. Cloud storage them. If you have actual collection type of property, you actually need a special type of insurance for those as well as special insurance for aquariums if the renters insurance doesn't cover them.
Adult protective services will be much better equipped to investigate and determine if in fact whether they're capable or not; they'll also have the resources to reach out to family about next steps and they _certainly_, if its warranted will be able to make the first steps towards assisted living or some type of care home. Who knows, maybe she's just not taking her meds and she needs a home care nurse to stop by once a day.
Please contact Adult Protective Services and get into detail like how you did here. Short, sweet, and to the point.
Lastly. I am obviously not a lawyer but your neighbor's family should tend to her before she accidentally and innocently harms herself or those around her. That's off topic and I am sorry.
This isn't really a legal issue per se, its more of a health and safety issue. Both yours and hers - if she's setting the apartment on fire then she may not be capable of living alone anymore. Your best bet is to contact your local Adult & Child Protective Services (what its called specifically will vary by name from town to town, but your local 311 or 411 will know) and give a report that this person may be unable to safely live by themselves.
Please also look and see if your town has a Crisis Intervention Team (CIT) branch of your town's police force. That covers situations like that of your neighbor with the fire but it is sometimes regional in scope in a different manner that Adult Protective Services.
Call your local Adult and Child protective services; they'll keep your involvement anonymous and they'll take the next steps.