I think it's probably quite a lot easier to argue against your suggestion than to agree with it. Most significant naval powers rise – as did Venice, Britain, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Japan and eventually the US – because their geopolitical positions require them to keep sea lanes open for a variety of reasons. They may be islands, like Britain and Japan, using naval power to forestall invasion and requiring it guarantee their ability to bring in foodstuffs and raw materials. They may be major trading nations, making a large part of their GDP from imports, as was the case with the Venice, Britain, Portugal, the Netherlands and Spain. They may use their navies to pirate and to raid for slaves, as the Barbary states did from the 1500s to the early 1800s. Or states may be imperial powers with a desire to build or protect an empire, as was the case with Portugal, Spain, Britain, the US, Japan in the 1930s and 1940s, and the Netherlands across the period from 1600-1945. As you'll have noted, such drivers are not at all mutually exclusive.
These sorts of interests are fundamental to the prosperity, and in some cases the survival, of a state, and they tend to endure whereas political systems come and go. Thus Britain was a major naval power for the whole of the period 1650-1950, during which its system of government shifted from military despotism under the Protectorate to a modified form of royal absolutism to a parliamentary system that started out being not very democratic at all, and only became fairly fully democratic after 1918, at a time when the country's absolute naval dominance was very rapidly coming to an end.
It's also very possible to offer examples of naval power built on the back of very different forms of government, from what amounted to a sort of libertarian anarchy (the Barbary states) to royal absolutism (Spain) via oligarchy (Venice and the Netherlands) to systems heavily dominated by the military, as was the case in Japan. In the rather special case of Germany, which built a fleet capable of challenging British naval dominance in the period 1890-1914, the country was, nominally, quite a bit more democratic than Britain was at the time, but the impetus for fleet-building came directly from the Kaiser and from organised elite interest groups enticed by the prospect of empire-building. The cost of maintaining both a huge navy and a massive conscript army fell heavily on the German citizenry who, in practice, had little power to control their nation's ever-swelling military estimates.
Finally, it's by no means the case that democracies necessarily maintain flourishing navies. The Dutch navy may have been world-beating in the 1600s, but it lagged badly behind most of its rivals as the country became more democratic in the 1800s and 1900s, despite being required to protect an empire of a similar size.
The US Navy, meanwhile, was enormous during the civil war period, but was then downgraded almost out of existence until it was effectively refounded in the early 1900s. In between those dates, during a crisis with Chile in the 1880s, the Americans were forced to confront the reality that their fleet was, at that time, significantly less powerful than the Chilean navy.
The idea that there is a connection between navies and democracy goes back to ancient Athens, and you will have found traces of it in Plutarch's Life of Themistokles. Plutarch and earlier authors like Isokrates and Aristotle argued that naval service empowers the poor, who will demand greater political rights, which will result in democracy.
These authors did not think of democracy necessarily as the rule of "the people" as a whole, but as a class government: democracy meant the rule of the poor over the rich, just as oligarchy meant the rule of the rich over the poor. In states without navies, the rich had a greater claim to power, since they defended the community as hoplites and horsemen. But in states with large navies, the poor people who rowed the ships could claim to be the true protectors of the community, and this allowed them to draw power to themselves. In this model, the navy comes first, and democracy follows.
Modern scholars have long believed that there was truth in this idea, and many histories of Athens will claim that it was the role of the navy during the Persian Wars that gave the common people of Athens the confidence to push for greater democracy. But more recently this idea has been discredited. There are 2 main reasons for doubt:
None of the sources that do associate democracy with naval power can do so in concrete terms. The reference is always vague: the people "became confident" and so they "pushed for reforms." But who were these people, and what did they actually do to change the system? No source presents us with a single reform proposal made by a representative of the rowers, or a single vote that was swayed by the so-called "naval mob." The idea of naval power leading to democracy exists only in the abstract. When you look more closely at the development of Athenian democracy, there is no trace of an empowered faction of rowers.
The idea that navies lead to more democracy was not part of the way Athenians saw their own history. It first appears in a political pamphlet written nearly a century after Athens became democratic. It is mostly a feature of works from the 4th century BC, when Athenian democracy had already been abolished and restored twice over. These texts are always either political rhetoric or philosophy, not historical narrative. They are also invariably written by critics or outright enemies of democracy. They had strong reasons to associate democracy with coercion from undesirables who had become uppity, rather than presenting it as a legitimate form of government. Historical authors did not follow their model.
The key modern study on this is Paola Ceccarelli, 'Sans thalassocratie, pas de démocratie?' in Historia 42.4 (1993), 444-470.