You need to get a lawyer, now. The investigation will most certainly happen. The hospital has reported you to the board. The lawyers are right, you are fucked. This will not go away on its own.
I'll either have a license with a "slap on the wrist", or worst case they revoke it altogether. I can't see how having a lawyer will help...
Get a lawyer or don’t, that’s on you. But don’t be shocked when that “slap on the wrist” is a punch in the face.
You called in a fraudulent prescription for a scheduled 4 medication for yourself. One pill, two pills it doesn’t matter, you had no authorization to do it. The board is not your friend, they do not grant mercy.
Yes I made a huge fucking mistake. I hate that nurses are supposed to be these perfect people without a single skeleton in their closet. I'll own it. But this isn't even affecting patient care. I would never touch a substance. The hospital did an audit of my controlled substance administration and it all checked out.
So once formal charges are brought I can either request a hearing or accept them and, if they let me, enter the drug diversion program, assuming it's an option since it involves a controlled substance. At what point is a lawyer going to be of use?
Super fucked up that they would have (allegedly) swept it under the rug if I would have just come back to finish the contract...
The lawyer will mitigate the charges brought against you, forging a prescription is a federal offense the DEA could get involved since it was a controlled substance. The lawyer will fight for you to even have the option of a rehabilitation program. The lawyer will fight for you to be allowed to keep working as a nurse during this period of time. The board could outright issue a “cease and desist” letter effectively barring you from working while they are investigating. The hospital never swept it under the rug. They reported you immediately, the board takes a long time to act.
Everyone will be interviewed for the investigation. The pharmacists, doctors, respiratory techs, nurses, anyone who was around you that day. It will be your word against literally everyone else.
No it's not. There's likely a voicemail record of you calling in the Rx that did not exist for the controlled substance. If there's not, there's a pharmacist who can directly attest to having heard the voicemail and calling the hospital to confirm the Rx. There's an MD who can swear they never wrote such a Rx or any Rx for you. There are two people who can testify to your reaction and the conversations you had with them after you were discovered.
This happened 6 months ago, and if they thought I was a true threat to the public, they would have issued the C&D and restricted my license at that time (per the Board's website). Yes I understand I'm lucky to potentially have the opportunity to enroll in the rehab program.
I know nurses who shot up Dilaudid at work and still work in the hospital thanks to the rehab program (one got his privileges back and the other relapsed and lost his license for minimum 7 years but let's be real, there's no going back). They recognize we are human and make mistakes, no matter how big or small.
Yeah, so you’re held to a professional standard everywhere. You could lose your license for domestic violence, DUI, tax evasion, anything. It doesn’t have to be work related. There is a moral turpitude clause that is far reaching.
Hearsay is "John told me he saw Steve do X." And that testimony can still come before a court, albeit narrowly. This person could not testify as to what Steve did or did not do because they did not witness it, but they can testify with regards to their conversation with John.
And here, we have a series of licensed professionals who can all testify towards the key elements of the event in question that they directly witnessed. And likely a recording of you calling in a fake prescription.
No one could possibly say. However, most places will preserve a message as soon as it is the subject of an investigation. There's a non-zero chance this message is already backed up and was submitted as part of the complaint/report to the board. There's a fairly good chance the hospital backed up the voicemail for their own records since they cancelled your contract over it. So it's possible to likely that multiple copies of this voicemail now exist.
But even if the recording doesn't exist, the pharmacist can testify to having heard it and acting upon it. The MD can testify to the pharmacist having reached out to confirm the Rx. The hospital almost certainly has a record of why they cancelled your contract. Likely, as part of this, other people heard the voicemail and can confirm it's existence. Your manager and director can testify to your reaction. No one is going to believe a chain of events that can be easily established beyond a reasonable doubt to have happened was caused by a voicemail everyone imagined.