Your mother in law is correct, please do not "poke the bear". You have not stated your state or local area, however in most states Manslaughter charges or reckless driving charges (which is what this would be or some kind of reckless homicide, or even some kind of reckless driving charge), have statute of limitations. Once that timeline is reached, the state can no longer bring charges against your partner. Keep in mind that some local areas have so many cases that this case may not be closed for a long period of time and in fact may not be closed until AFTER the statute of limitations has ended. Similarly to the criminal charges, even civil suits that can be brought against your partner have statutes of limitations and if they do not sue within time, they are barred from suit.
If everything you've stated is true, its unlikely that the local DA will bring a charge unless the crash team determines something wildly inconsistent with that information that you have. The burden is high for these types of driving cases, and while there is a possibility of it happening, its unlikely with the information that youve provided.
So stop "poking the bear," and when you receive notice of any civil or criminal charge, I would start looking for an attorney that practice in these types of lawsuits.
Is this family friend a criminal defense lawyer? If no, then consult with one. See if your local bar association has a referral service.
Part of what your SO should be working on in therapy is dealing with life issues outside of his control.
Insurance adjuster here....this is good advice. The police should have opened the case docs to the public by now and unfortunately ots very common for them to delay like this. If your partner has no fault and they haven't indicted anyone he's more than likely safe. But only an Atty will be successful in getting access to those case docs.
Nothing you do is going to stop an investigation. But you could generate interest in the case by talking to the police about the status.
Getting sued or charged is not going to help your partner's mental health. It is not going to help them get therapy. There is no advantage to taking any action.