The landlord likely won't let a minor sign a contract. Does your college allow you to live off campus as a freshman? Many only allow dorm or parents for the first year.
Yeah I made sure that my college allowed us to live off campus for the first year, but would I also still be able to live with them even as a minor for the first 10 days?
You would only be a minor for the first 10 days of the lease? You can talk to the landlord about adding you to the lease after you turn 18. They would be allowed to do this but certainly not required. I don't suppose it's possible to just start the lease for everyone 10 days later?
Minors can be occupants but they cannot sign leases or appear on leases. Your parents/guardian could sign a lease and you could live in this place just fine.
It's possible the landlord would let your roommate hold the apartment alone and then sign a new lease with you added after your birthday.
This also might seem like a stupid question, but at that point what benefits does adding my name to the lease have for me? Like, why would I do it at that point, would it then help by giving me rental history? But other than that is there any other benefits, and a slight side question, what does rental history do for me, I realize that this is a little bit off from my actual question on my post but I would just like some help with these questions.
Rental history can be nice, yes. You also have more protections as a tenant than you do as an occupant. Some of the benefits could be very minor, like being able to have your name on a mailbox. Some of the benefits could be very major, like protections against eviction or being able to benefit from a rental insurance policy.
The rental history question is a little more complex because it partially depends on who you're trying to rent from, when, and why. Some landlords really don't care, but plenty do. In truth, landlords just want to see that you haven't been evicted and you aren't defaulting on utilities left and right.
You definitely want to be officially a tenant on paper anywhere you're living. Even if it's with friends and a "gentleman's agreement" seems like it would be fine, if something goes wrong, you want the legal protections that come with being a tenant. What if, god forbid, your friend gets hit by a bus one day? The place would legally be without a tenant. You might be able to press some kind of squatter's rights, but you don't want to be in that situation.
That also makes a lot of sense actually, I didn't really think about if anything like that was to happen so thank you! I'll definitely try to get my name on the lease as soon as I possibly could then.
This also might seem like a stupid question, but at that point what benefits does adding my name to the lease have for me? Like, why would I do it at that point, would it then help by giving me rental history? But other than that is there any other benefits, and a slight side question, what does rental history do for me, I realize that this is a little bit off from my actual question on my post but I would just like some help with these questions.
Thank you for the insight, and we have two people that have agreed to be co-signers (their parents), and with that because to my knowledge you can only have one co-signer would it be best to choose whichever one has the highest income, or does it not matter too much, I know that they both are making relatively similar wages at around 70k per year.