In FL, school districts can mandate uniforms, including PE uniforms. If there is an issue with cost (you can't afford it) you should arrange for a discussion with your PE teacher, guidance counselor, or vice-principal to have a confidential discussion about receiving the uniform at no/discounted cost.
If/when you go to university you will be forced to purchase textbooks or course packs in order to have access to readings and get good grades.
They should provide one in those instances. Just 'not wanting' to wear one is not an excuse and you can be penalized for it.
I’m not saying I don’t want to wear one. I’m saying that if I don’t buy one, they’ll reduce my grades. So the issue is, is it illegal for my grade to be reduce just because I don’t spend money on a school specific item.
If you don’t buy a calculator for calculus you won’t be able to do tests and will get a worse grade.
You’re not being discriminated against or being forced to do anything outside the bounds of what is normal in school or in society. If you have financial difficulties you can ask for accommodation.
ok. you don’t like that you have to buy necessary material for a class. i’m pointing out that it’s far from a unique situation.
Also, I’ll keep this one nice and simple because it should be basic common sense. A public school ≠ a full blown college that is more than likely going to be a private institution.
First of all, things like pencils, notebooks and other stuff are things bought outside of school that you can use for any class and even use them outside of school. You’re also not being graded on whether you have these items or not. You’re being graded on your academic performance and what you learn, which can be impact on whether you have the materials or not, but overall those things purchased are not part of your end grade. How you perform is the only thing that determines your grade.
it’s not illegal to have required material, even in public high school. i’m not saying i necessarily agree with it from a societal standpoint, but you have no legal argument.
for what it’s worth i still use my high school gym shorts i was forced to purchase over 15 years ago.
Buying the item is not the issue. The issue is that I’m paying for a grade because I need to buy a PE uniform that will count as part of what’s supposed to be my academic performance grade.
It doesn't sound like there's a financial issue, so you have to decide if you want to fail because of the uniform requirement.
So I am asking, is that legal or not. I not once said I was being financially discriminated or that I wasn’t buying the uniform. Y’all assumed.
I get the distinction you are making. It has some logic to it, but no it is not illegal. The school has the right to set the parameters of how it would like to grade students and they have significant leeway to do so without interference. If they would like to say that you will fail drama class unless you show up wearing a silly hat they are free to do so, and so on and so on.
Basically it stems from the principle that you don’t want laws to go further than is necessary to achieve their purpose. Regulating how grades can be assessed would be a huge legislative overreach. If we allowed that you would have all sorts of crazy rules about what teachers could and couldn’t do to assess grades, which would be incredibly burdensome and inflexible to accommodate different circumstances.
Bro really acting like I was throwing a tantrum when I just came here to ask a simple question your dumbass wasn’t able to comprehend from the start 😂.
How you a grown man and make such basic takes, not understand something, and still act like you’re somewhat doing anything 🤣.
yeah, you’re right. you came here asking for advice and expertise that you don’t have, without having done even basic research, and my dumbass took time out of my day to answer, even though the question was kind of stupid to begin with. plus i kept responding when you had attitude, and now i’m getting insulted by a high school student, without so much as a single thank you. so yeah, definitely an idiot for all that.
The answer is "Yes". You need to either buy the uniform and wear it OR be penalized/grade suffers because of it.