KABUL — The Taliban regime, stepping up the pace and severity of Islamic punishments, carried out its first public execution this week since taking power 15 months ago. A convicted murderer was shot Wednesday, followed a day later by the lashing of 27 men and women in a soccer stadium on charges that included adultery, theft, drug use and running away from home.
The man put to death in western Farah province was not identified, but officials said he was accused of murder five years ago and found guilty after three recent court hearings. Under the Islamic legal tenet of “qisas,” which allows personal retribution for crimes, the father of the murder victim carried out the death sentence as a crowd watched, shooting the killer three times.
The condemnation the Taliban are receiving for having public executions is nothing compared to the condemnation the US justice system receives for its lethal injections. Is this your first day reading the news?
Yeah that's a fact some cultures and traditions are just fucked up period. And that's the thing, this is their culture sadly and we can't change it, the West has tried so hard and for so long to change them and is useless they always go back to this, I'm probably going to get downvoted for saying this but I think we should give up on them and just leave them alone and forget about them as long as they're not a threat to the West. I wanted them to be different this time after they took over Afghanistan but it's clear that they're still the same radical barbarians they were before.
I'm pretty sure Putin, China and the Saudis are going to give them all the money they want and their undying support, they already support Iran so what's another dictatorship?
Hey, listen, i don't like it either, but if you're gonna start with "oooh we have to save them, let's deploy people", then you better be one of the first to touch ground over there, you have to back up your words with action, i think that part of the world has seen enough foreign "help" already, how about WE, the people of our own countries, fight for our own issues first and then we go bomb, i mean, help, other nations, how's that sound?