The obvious answer is books, but the trick is figuring out WHICH books to read. Finding a book on a topic is usually simple enough, especially with e-books.
Once you have a book a good first step is to look at the author and find out who they are. Jump on Google and look up the author, what is their field, are they actually a historian or just some random person? If they aren't a professional historian does their background give them some unique inside into the topic of the book? As an example, say you have found a book on espionage and the author is a retired CIA agent, they may not be a professional historian but their experience gives them insite into the subject matter.
What of the cases where an established historian with a good publisher is promoting outdated views? There are noted history texts which have since been found to have many errors and misconceptions within them, sometimes due to the particular views or biases of the author, but others because the state of research of that time has advanced substantially since then. At times it can be hard to tell, especially if some books are still considered excellent regardless.
Second step is to look at the publisher. Many publishers specialize in publishing academic history books, but this isn't a deal breaker per say. A lot of Universities will publish their own books, but If the author is a credible historian with a long resume and THIS particular book happens to be published by a less academic publisher, that isn't necessarily a deal breaker. What should be a deal breaker is if the author is not a professional historian AND the book is not published by a reputable publisher.
An old example would be the noted work; The history of the decline and fall of the Roman Empire. While considered an important text, I've seen historians studying the later Roman (Byzantine) Empire criticise the attitudes and claims within that book to said polity and time. In this case (from what I surmise) it is a matter of research moving ahead and more having been learned since then.
One step I like to take is, for something recent, if it seems reliable, look for academic reviews of the book you're looking at. They're short, usually only about 1000 words, and if the scholar is promoting really outdated interpretations, they should catch that in the reviews (and if several reviews say the same thing, that's important information) Obviously, reviews aren't flawless - different academic schools of thought can influence reviews a lot, and you need access through a library or jstor or something, but it's a good second step.
Another example would be a more recent work I have had a historian recommend me, and another historian (here) criticise: Schama's Citizens: A chronicle of the French Revolution. I must state that this is not my field at all (and I am not that familiar with the author), however you can see how a non historian might find themselves with a work of lesser quality or bias. Furthermore the publishing house isn't specialised in historical texts.
You know how the back of books often have quotes on them, comments on the book and its contents ascribed to a reviewer? Check those because the publisher chose to put the best reviews they could get there and who gave those reviews tells you a lot about the book's intended audience and can hint at it's quality. New York Times? Washinon Post? Seeing those isn't necessarily bad, but they can be a gamble. Those are the places popular histories get good reviews and they can be great books for the laymen, or junk history in equal measure. Ideally there should be quotes from university presses, professors in the field, academic journals, and never ever politicans or TV personalities.
More generally, something I tend to advocate for that's a bit more controversial is, if you have some idea what you're looking for, try and look for a Ph.D. dissertation at least close to that topic! With many universities having an online repository, it's a good place to find research without financial risk. Obviously, PhD dissertations have some issues - they don't go through the same kind of peer-review and polish as a monograph, which makes them riskier in some ways, and they are often extremely narrow in scope, which hurts accessibility. But their big advantage is that they tend to have a much more detailed historiography section, which should outline who is important in a field, who's controversial, and what stances are discredited. YMMV, but they're a resource that often gets overlooked in recommending reading.
In a perfectly world, JSTOR and the local library are your friends. Academic reviews will almost always note how a new book stacks up against the books that came before it and where it fits in the broader debate.
It's best when the quotes reference other authors or books, cause then you can backtrack to those and see what they're about to get a better idea.
There is a super quick method to try and tackle this issue (if you can't access those resources), but it's dicey as super quick things often are.
Easiest thing to do is look at how old the book is. Try to find something relatively recent to account for the possibility for new research. But it can be hard to know when a view is outdated or not without first familiarizing yourself with the topic. This means not just reading a single book, but multiple books.
But this is also a case by case basis. If the book is simply old (such as The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire) the book might still be worth a read. Yes later historians came along specifically to criticize the book's thesis, but if you read the book itself you can better understand what they are criticizing.
Again, in order to understand the criticism (and to decide for yourself whether or not to agree or disagree), will require reading more than a single book on the topic, but rather being familiar enough with the subject to form your own opinions.
As for biases, to be honest EVERYTHING IS BIAS, but that doesn't mean the book isn't worth reading. Memoirs are a good example of this. Memoirs are almost, if not always, VERY bias because they serve the agenda of the writer by creating a version of events that make them look good. But memoirs are also Primary Sources and can be incredibly invaluable for first hand information from an eye witness of an event. The trick isn't to find something that is unbiased, because books are written by people and people are bias with agendas, the trick is to realize when the bias ends and information begins.
A quick Google search tells us that this book was written by and that he used to teach history at Cambridge University. We also learn that the book was originally published in 1989, but is has been republished since then. A quick look via Google and Google Scholar shows that this seems to be a good book (mostly positive reviews). Doesn't mean that the book is free of criticism (nothing is free of criticism) and there might be a newer book on the topic, but this book does seem like a good staring point.
If what you are reading is a history BOOK, there will always be a publisher, if you are talking about some kind of Primary Source (letters, journals, etc), than you need to look at the individual who created the document(s). Is it a personal letter, a speech, diary, political pamphlet, etc? When were they writing, where was the writer at the time, what personal biases does the writer have, WHY did they create the document? Part of Historical Analysis is asking these questions (and others) in order to identify the biases of the author.