That will be many months from now, they need to bring the crews to train them, tank crews, maintenance crews, etc, then they need to get everything there, tanks, parts, ammo, support trucks, etc... It's goos they will get them, but it won't be before the summer.
I think you’d be surprised. The army trains tank mechanics in 16 weeks. Add to it, the people they send to learn and operate these tanks are not going to be fresh 18 year olds. They are going to send their most experienced tankers / Mechanics to learn to operate these.
To be honest I think the Ukrainians already had the training. I doubt that USA wasn’t thinking sending Abrams many months before, they just didn’t want to announce not To escalate. I would go further and even bet that USA is already training Ukrainians to fly the f-16 for 2/3 months already (if not longer).
There was an article in Aug 2022 about the training for F-15's and F-16's they were starting to get, so by now I'm pretty sure there are very capable Ukranians pilots ready to get their planes, I'm sure in the next few months we will be hearing about some planes being sent there.
It’s likely easier to explain to someone how to maintain a tank that’s maintained tanks before than an 18 year old that doesn’t know the difference between a socket and a pipe wrench.
There are probably military consultants in Ukraine from USA to sssist in repair/maintenance right now. They had something similar when I served in the navy for certain Radar systems.
Add to it, the Ukrainians have developed a reputation for catching on to these techs really quickly.
After they're done with the training, they still have all the logistics to get things there, and even if they get there before, there will be some waiting while the crews are ready and leadership has a plan... my timing wasn't wrong.
As such, if they can teach an 18-year old who doesn’t know their ass from their elbow in 16 weeks, they can easily train an experienced mechanic and tanker how to do it in 8.
The Abrams doesn't have a regular engine, regular equipment, yes, the guys coming already know how to fix diesel engines, but still have to learn to give maintenance to an engine that is way more complex than the ones they're used to, have you ever at least read about this engine? It's a gas turbine engine, not a diesel engine, two complete different technologies, both move a tank, but the way they do it is way way different.
The basis and mechanics of a tank are the same. It’s not like the Abram engine runs on Uranium. If a mechanic specializes in fixing Hyundai, it’s not like they’d have to relearn how cars work if you bring them a Toyota.
The Abrams can use gasoline, jet fuel, diesel, marine diesel as fuel, can you imagine how complicated this engine is? Try putting diesel to your gasoline car and tell me what happens... And is also not just the engine, the gearbox, and many more components.
And for the tank crew, they need to learn to drive it, use the scopes, load the gun, blah blah, yeah, they already have experience driving tanks, and probably they'll catch up faster, but is not a T72 or 59 or whatever the have there.
And also take this with a grain of salt, but I read months ago about the US is training pilots on the F-15 and F-16's () and if things actually happen, they get their training and planes, you're talking about Ukraine having more weapons, giving them an advantage, unless Russia will be willing to send the planes they have, because as of now they haven't been able to gain air superiority.