If you are experiencing maintenance issues, your recourse is through the LTB (by filing a maintenance application). The LTB however is much more likely to order that the landlord address the issue and to give you a rent rebate than to release you from your lease, unless its REALLY bad.
If the infestation is as bad as you say you can ask your landlord to deal with it and possibly withhold rent into an escrow account until he does.
If the place is really that uninhabitable, you need to call code enforcement which will come and investigate. If they deem the place is uninhabitable (which is unlikely) then an argument can be made to break your lease.
For now, however, you need to ask your landlord to remedy the issue. Use the escrow account or try to find another tenant to take over.
Also, I thought a lease more than 12 months is void because it is illegal in Ontario ? Thanks for the response though.
Well, they told me there were no issues prior to the move in.. I would never want to live somewhere where there are roaches. Even one is bad enough.
It is very difficult for a place to be uninhabitable (I'm referring to no heat, water, not up to fire code, etc.). You would have to tell your landlord to remedy the infestation.
I am aware that the landlord cannot raise rent within a 12 month period, but I don't believe there is a limit to how long a lease can be. Even so, I do believe there is an ability for the lease to have exceptions as long as they do not interfere with the tenant's rights. (Once again, I could be wrong, but after scanning several documents I've seen nothing about this).
However, if your landlord has the paperwork in order, as well as a signed agreement with you, the best you can do is ask them to remedy these issues (take pictures, of course) and withhold rent until they do.
Of course, if you do believe that the building is not up to code, or that the landlord has not registered the building as being a multi-purpose dwelling, a call to city enforcement might be in order, as doing so could possibly get your landlord to break the lease if the city deems the building is a hazard.
Document every issue with the apartment and contact a local real estate attorney. It sounds like you may have a case that the landlord has broken the lease by not providing an apartment meeting local health and safety requirements which, if true, would mean the contract is already null and void.
Is there not a law that only 12 month leases are legal? And it’s liveable for normal people who don’t care to live with bugs and dust/mold but I didn’t sign up to pay 1400 to live with roaches and mold.
Not sure if local Ontario law allows for multi-year residential leases or not; defiantly isn't common.
Normal people do in fact care about mold/infestations; check local laws regarding a landlords responsibilities regarding mold/infestation mitigation.