Depending upon what province you work in, there may be a legislative body that governs working conditions. Theyd be able to link your concerns specifically to the appropriate provincial or federal policy.
This doesn't seem like sexual harassment, this seems like cluelessly attempting to follow a procedure without regard for implication- rule book/insurer says get a picture, then get a picture, right?
If the "sexual" nature of it hinges on the manager being a guy, or you not wearing underwear, making their demands unknowingly equivalent to "Hey, let Jim here take a photo of your ass for the insurers", then it's a pretty weak argument.
See that's kind of my thoughts too it wasn't sexual in nature but I feel like it was definitely misconduct. I had a surgery a few months back and this same woman took it upon herself to add a clause into my return to work plan that she needed to see the injury to clear me back to work.. problem being I had the surgeon clear me as well as my family doctor. It required me to remove my bandages in order for her to look at it but she has literally ZERO qualifications to assess injuries. I think my issue here is boundaries and her lack of. I still haven't decided what my best course of action is yet but I do know that she needs to be brought back down to earth on what her scope of work is!
Thanks so much for the advice I am in Alberta. I think the problem I'm having is truly not knowing what to do. I know that me having the ability to stand up for myself is not something that everyone would be capable of. I'm also the only female employee aside from our Health and Safety Officer. I don't want this to ever happen to anyone else since I feel this violated and I didn't actually take my clothes off.. how would someone feel if they actually did since the pressure was pretty intense I felt like I could be punished for not complying!
Did you genuinely feel as though their intent/behaviour was sexual? It doesn't come off that way in your writing, and I can't see how I'd see it that way if I were sat on a jury. There's also the fact that you didn't comply with their request, and when you refused they stopped- fair play to you, if you were to be disciplined for that I'd say they were in the wrong, but again, it diminishes the case.
Also want to add that on our forms there is not a single place where it asks for a picture or even for her to document the actual injury it just asks for the location of the injury and the circumstances surrounding how it occured!