But because he's a minor, he's unlikely to get in significant trouble unless this is the latest in a long juvenile record.
Depending on where you live, you are probably liable for paying for the value of the property he damaged.
Tell your son not to share the video with anyone, or to discuss the vandalism with anyone. Tell him not to answer any police questions.
IANAL, until he’s charged there’s not a whole lot you can do. You may be able to get a free consultation with a juvenile defence lawyer, but without charges and evidence I’m not sure if they can really help. It’s also a low level charge which may not require the same amount of layer fees that a felony would.
The State has to go through a process and provide evidence if they want to take any of your money or freedom, so the best first step is always "don't talk to police" so you don't give them more evidence than they already have.
Juvenile courts are meant to rehabilitate and keep kids out of the criminal Justice system. I would stay strong around your son and use this as a teaching opportunity.
But as others have mentioned he should absolutely not talk to the cops. Talking to them will not help you convince them to not file charges. It is on the government to prove everything, not for you to prove innocence.
Police aren't the ones who will decide what happens to your son, a prosecutor would file charges and those would get heard in court. Don't be in the mindset that if the police catch you not giving information, that you're going to get in more trouble. It doesn't work that way.
Doesn’t matter. People who get pulled over drunk and pulled out of their car don’t always get convicted of drunk driving. Maybe the camera doesn’t show everything, maybe it doesn’t show them clearly, maybe the police had a procedural error. Maybe the lawyer can plea bargain it down. There’s always things that lawyers can help with. Once they review the evidence then they can let you know their opinion. Get a free consultation, interview a few lawyers, they can tell you next steps.
What -can- happen is that, police will sometimes be intentionally vague/misleading to try to get a confession out of someone.
Even if your son thinks he's the offender of the actions being asked about, you never admit it to the police when asked like that.
It is in your best interest to comply with law enforcement, but that does not extend to talking to them about something that may incriminate yourself.
The correct response if they show up is to not talk about it. No acknowledging or talking about the incident. Stress that you / your son do not wish to talk without counsel/representation.
Please don't give advice ever to say nothing. That can be in and of itself incriminating per the U.S. Supreme Court in Salinas v. Texas. You must actually claim your right to silence by verbally making it clear you are invoking that right.