1st. Why didn’t Stalin inform his loyal commander about this? I don’t want to come off as armchair general but Surely, Zhukov is an intelligent and more than capable enough commander to pull off a convincing trick with Operation Mars. And instead of unnecessary casualties, those men could’ve been used in further campaigns.
Stalingrad is considered one of the most important battles of the war. A great victory for the Soviets, a great defeat for the Germans and her allies. The victory at Stalingrad, in turn was significantly enabled by Operation Uranus, launched in late November of 1942, which was successful in bringing about a swift envelopment of the Axis forces, cutting them off and trapping them in the city for their eventual destruction. This too is well known as a critical Axis defeat. Operation Uranus, however, was paired with a second one, Operation Mars, launched further to the north in the region of Rzhev, which was something of the opposite, both as a Soviet loss, and as a forgotten one.
If you consult Soviet histories of the period, you would think this was a very minor operation. A small distraction, never launched with much hope of success, but simply intended to help tie up German forces elsewhere to ensure the success of Uranus. In Marshal Zhukov's memoirs, it merits barely a page of mention, and paints a fairly rosy picture of an operation which, while, "[failing] to cope with the task assigned by the Supreme Command — destroy the Rzhev salient — their vigorous actions prevented the German Command from rushing large reinforcements from this sector to Stalingrad." A moral victory in a minor defeat. It is also one which Zhukov took little responsibility for, portraying planning as last minute, with orders received from Stalin for the operation in only mid-November, allowing for only minimal preparation before operations were to launch, and of course further explaining the lack of success.
It is telling that even when Zhukov was being castigated by Stalin and pushed into exile, and later again pushed into premature retirement, while numerous of his alleged sins were dragged up, Operation Mars remained the above, a minor setback of no real consequence, and barely worth a mention within the Soviet sources, not used to blemish the name of the general who allegedly 'never lost a battle'.
But much to Glantz's misfortune, around the same time he was bringing his own book to print Pavel Sudoplatov published his own work which included a small bombshell, namely that Max was a double agent being run by the Soviets, something Glantz didn't know! Far from successfully transmitting a top secret find to German intelligence about Soviet intentions, Max had told the Germans exactly what Stalin wanted them to know. With this information, it is very plain to see how Mars must be viewed as the complementary operation to Uranus. The plan for Operation Mars was leaked on purpose by Stalin to absolutely ensure that Germans would concentrate their forces to the north of the operational zone for Uranus and be unable to quickly reinforce against the attempt to isolate the 6th Army in Stalingrad. As such, not only was the unexpectedly stiff resistance Zhukov faced due to German foreknowledge, but it was a foreknowledge that Stalin himself worked to ensure.
While wrong in the full extent of the scope, Glantz's bombastic title is thus nevertheless reasonably correct. Along side his actions at Seelow Heights, Mars stands tall in exposing the worst of Zhukov's impulses as a commander, and while the Soviets did manage to cross the Oder there and claim victory even at great cost, Mars truly was a defeat of Zhukov's intentions. While secondary, and certainly intended to spread Axis forces thin, it was planned to be a full operation in its own right, and no one, least of all Zhukov, wanted anything less than victory. This is made clear enough in the parts of the story that he left out of his memoirs, not to mention the general Soviet histories of the war, where the initial lack of success resulted merely in sending good after bad. Met with heavier than expected resistance from the first days of the offensive, Glantz sums up where the repeated mantra of the operation:
There is some humor to Glantz's omission too, that we have with hindsight. Unaware of the information Sudoplatov was revealing, Glantz is nevertheless close to hitting on it himself. Noting skepticism about Max, Glantz points out the fact that Max's information was predicated on a claimed meeting by Stalin and a dozen of his top generals in early November, but it is a meeting which we have no record for, and at least two of those allegedly in attendance, Zhukov and Vasilevsky, absolutely could not have been there. As such, Glantz offers skepticism about Max, noting it is possible he mixed up the dates and meant a meeting from late October which fit the bill, but also that Max might have been quite unreliable and by mere coincidence provided a report that was "strikingly compatible with the actual Soviet strategic plan". Whether Max was in fact a double agent, as turned out in reality, was unfortunately not contemplated.
More recent scholarship disagrees, however. While the utter dearth of Soviet analysis prevents a true, clear picture from forming, and perhaps always will, one thing is clear enough and agreed upon, namely that Mars was not planned with the intention of a minor sideshow where its own success was secondary to ensuring that or Uranus. At the very least, it is overwhelmingly agreed that planning for Mars had begun months earlier, at the very latest in the last week of September, and thus nearly concurrent with planning of Uranus. Some scholars, such as David M. Glantz, even go so far as to assert that Mars was intended to be the main offensive, and Uranus the secondary one. Writing in the mid-90s, Glantz makes a compelling argument for this view in Zhukov's Greatest Defeat but in the end suffers from the perils of being the first to write about a topic, and scholarship since then generally has reverted to seeing Mars as the complementary operation, but nevertheless not one launched with such lack of concern over its success by its planners.
So why did Zhukov continue to shovel in more men afterwards, to the point of several hundred thousand casualties (Krivosheev calculated 215,600 casualties, with 70,000 killed; Glantz estimates casualties were closer to 335,000, with over 100,000 killed) for what was intended only as a distraction? Just like Glantz, Zhukov himself didn't know what Stalin had done either! Stalin in pursuit of victory, did everything to guarantee success, and that included not even allowing his Deputy, and the commander of the operation, know what had happened, ensuring absolute verisimilitude, with a commander not knowing that he was, essentially, being sent to certain failure. As such, while it does show Zhukov at his most stubborn, it is easy to sympathize with his frustrations and inability to believe that the Germans could be so well prepared as to not be close to the breaking point. Had Stalin not tipped his hand intentionally, it almost certainly would have been the case... but of course it as with any counterfactual scenario, it is hard to know how successful Uranus might have been in turn.
Given the topic of this thread, it isn't much of a surprise to say that that never happened. In Zhukov, the operation lays bare his greatest faults. Convinced of the quality of the planning, he was essentially unable to accept things could have gone so awry, and when met with such a wrench in the matter, more ended up being the answer, convinced that the breaking point was so close as to not require a different approach. Zhukov's numerous successes indicate that he quite readily possessed the flexibility necessary for such operational changes on the fly, but to do so required the wherewithal to see when they were needed, and his maniacal focus on breaking the Axis lines, as with Seelow Heights, simply did not allow it here.
At this point in time, despite disagreements on the specifics, Operation Mars is decently well known, even if it lacks the stature of its compatriot Uranus, let alone other operations like Barbarossa or Bagration, but this is only the result of research and scholarship since the 1990s, when the disappearance of Soviet secrecy allowed better archival research to shed light on the extent of the Soviet defeat, which up to that point had been essentially unknown in western scholarship, at best the proverbial footnote to Operation Uranus, and even within Soviet histories of the war a defeat best forgotten.
It isn't impossible to speculate Zhukov did eventually learn of it, but if so, he left no indication of it in his memoir, and it is also reasonable to speculate that if he did learn of it, he would have been prevented from ever saying so as the information was clearly kept quite secret. WW2 intelligence operations were pretty routinely kept classified for decades after the war. So we can only speculate, but whatever the truth it had no outward impact.
There is, however, a deeper side to the story which is most relevant for what you're asking. Sadly for my namesake, it doesn't do all that much to salvage what his failure says about him as a commander - liable to become too focused on the objective - but it does provide some balm for the wounded pride, at least. As noted, Glantz goes a little too far in his estimation, but in large part due to a critical piece of information that only came to light too late for him. It was long known that the German intelligence apparatus had an agent, codenamed Max, feeding them information on Soviet planning, and as Glantz notes himself, a key factor in the overly strong resistance by the Axis forces, and Zhukov's frustration, was a report from Max with information pointing towards Soviet operations against Army Group Center in the region of Rzhev.