Keep a record of every interaction you have with her. Log date and time and a description of what happened. Something along the lines of “7/2/2021 neighbor approached us unprovoked and said ….”.
A camera system will help document the problem. You’ll want save the applicable footage of the incidents that occur and log them.
If she does anything that warrants calling the police then call the police. If she trespasses on your property call the police. Having video footage helps. Go ahead and lookup what you need to get a harassment restraining order. If she continues you may need to get one. The log you keep will help you in the future with any legal avenues you may need to pursue.
You don't need that, what you need are cameras on your property that record anything you can see from your property. Most of the cameras just need to be aimed at that part of your property that borders her property. And yes, you can record her property and her house from your property.
If you can determine what type of poison was used, find out where it can be purchased locally. She may have been dumb enough to have purchased it nearby. Go to places where it is sold and ask whether they have sold large quantities of the poison recently to anyone matching her description. Bring a picture of her with you if you can obtain one. It is legal to take one of her when she is in public. If you get lucky, you may be able to find where she purchased the poison. That, along with her prior incident with your dog will give the police probable cause to get a search warrant to try to find the empty containers at her home. It is also enough to make her a defendant in a civil suit.
On the civil side, I suggest you make a claim with your homeowner's insurance carrier and let them handle it. They have investigators and lawyers for these types of things. That is why you have insurance.
I also agree that cameras are a good idea going forward, but the above hopefully can be of help for the damage already done. I'm sorry you have to live near this person and hope you can put an end to these antics quickly.
IANAL. There may not be enough evidence to establish criminal guilt related to your trees, but civil cases are not judged based on a "reasonable doubt" standard. Civil cases are weighed based on a "preponderance of evidence" which can be circumstantial. Basically, whichever party shows up with the most and best-organized evidence usually wins.
Basically literally everything you can use to document these events can be submitted as exhibits in a civil lawsuit. Also, if you do pursue civil suit, you can request a discovery hearing and ask her to provide her purchase records/bank statements/Amazon order history.
- Notarized statements from the realtor and prior owner that the trees were alive when you bought the property. The LEO that came for the pepper spray incident may also remember if the trees were alive and be able to give you a statement about it.
- Google maps and other photos showing the trees before they died. Bonus if your pre-puchase property inspection shows the trees alive.
- A written statement and estimate from a certified arborist about the state of the trees and their replacement value.