Where do people usually look for newly released high quality history books? I've found a few places which mention older good quality books, like fivebooks for example but nothing which lists/posts about new/upcoming releases (NYT best seller, and other similar sites appear to be filled with pop-history a lot of the time).
Also, many subfields of history have their own lists of recent releases. Examples from ancient history:
I'll second that one - excellent and makes much better use of archaeology - and therefore a wider and more interesting perspective - than you often find in works on the subject.
Worldcat is also very useful, particularly if you have niche interests, but you have to filter through the fluff books.
Checking out the publisher (is it an academic press or a vanity press?) and the author’s credentials is a good way to start. I also like to pull up the book on Google Books to get a sense of the author’s writing style and whether it has adequate citations and references.
What you're looking for in an academic journal is the 'Books Received' notices - they will list a whole bunch of recently-published academic works in that journal's area of interests.
Actually filtering them is a little trickier - u/Bentresh mentioned BMCR below, which is a fantastic source of reviews to help you figure out which books are really useful to you, but for obvious reasons reviews tend to lag behind publications - sometimes by years, as it's not uncommon to write a review article that takes in a number of books on a similar theme published over the last couple of years.
I'd also be cautious about saying that 'high-quality' and 'academic' are synonyms - they're different things for different audiences. If you've got a solid background in a subject and are interested in the details of a specific aspect of it, academic books are very good, but they're very rarely going to focus on the sorts of things that are interesting if you're coming into the topic more-or-less fresh and want to get a sense of what it's all about. Moreover, many top-notch academics publish for the general public, and while those books can sometimes skirt over the technicalities of a subject and give the impression that things are more settled than they are, they often hold up very well indeed under scrutiny.
Something of an introductory but if I recall correctly it more directly relates to your area of interest.
One thing I look out for when coming across books on (e.g.) Amazon is the reviews inside the cover - not just whether or not they're good, but the sorts of ways that they're praising the book. If there's lots of scholars from the field whom you probably haven't heard of in other contexts, using phrases like 'magisterial', 'scrupulously researched' and 'important' (and more generally, a lot of long words), that's a good sign. If, however, they're mostly from non-historians and mostly using phrases like 'thrilling', 'a page-turner', and so on, that might indicate that the book's main selling point isn't how much it has impressed people who know about the topic, and that might be a clue to go somewhere else.
You could also throw in Max Adams' books - The King in the North, Aelfred's Britain, In the Land of Giants and soon The First Kingdom. They're incredibly knowledgeable and well-written, though I found that it sometimes helped to jump to a separate quick summary (can I say Wikipedia without being ostracised?) - Adams covers a lot of ground that's really quite obscure if you don't have a background in Early Medieval history, and it was much easier to understand him if I first went away to get a general sense of who all these people were and what was going on.
There's another two which I haven't yet read myself, but come from authors who know their stuff and whose other work I've read and found fantastic - Francis Pryor's Britain AD and Guy Halsall's Worlds of Arthur.