Agnes and Tom in the forest is a little different situation from a peasant family in a community, whether they own the house or are (the medieval equivalent of) subletting a room, but you probably guessed that part.
So among other things, a woman in medieval Europe most likely had a roof over their heads and something at least resembling a bed beneath her when she gave birth. But more to your question: the people assisting her were probably almost entirely women.
Midwives, for example, were mostly still women in the Middle Ages. Of course, healers' specialties were overlapping, so it's not like a barber would never serve as a midwife, and there's one awesome case where a woman noted in tax records as a midwife is the sort of 'official' medical practitioner at a men's monastery. (So either she had a broader skillset, or there were some very unmonastic things up in that monastery.).
But it does seem like midwives were mostly women. And formal physicians would only be called in for the most dire emergencies--basically, when it was all but certain that the woman giving birth was going to die, and they wanted a last-ditch, desperate effort to save the baby long enough to baptize her or him. (Midwives were, however, recognized by the Church as having the power to perform baptism if it was the absolute only way for the baby to be baptized before she or he died.).
Second, the other people in the room would probably also be female. In fact, from looking at upper-class Italy, Christine Klapisch-Zuber argued for a pattern of men trying to assert influence and even presence in the room where a woman gave birth/laid-in afterwards. (To which point: men tried to edge in on the midwife profession/midwives' traditional responsibilities towards the end of the Middle Ages into the early modern era.) But women seem to have persevered and kept childbirth a strong female and community experience.
But there's plenty of evidence for women keeping religious charms--objects, scraps of parchment/paper with "magic letters" (as we'd say) on them, or saying specific prayers--in the birthing room with them. St. Margaret of Antioch was the patron saint of women giving birth, so in the later Middle Ages, objects associated with her, or letters from her name, were popular.
Tom's family in PotE isn't particularly religious (which does make the book more palatable to people today, I get it; from a modern standpoint, medieval Christianity could get weird AF), and the mid-12th century is a little early for the overwhelming popularity St. Margaret veneration. But there should at least be some kind of reference to a protective prayer or object or what we would see as a spell/charm.
The major thing missing from PotE relates to my main problem with the book (which, let it be said, is my favorite fiction book): religion. Not that everyone in the Middle Ages was super-religious and praying all the time (BUT PHILIP IS A MONK. Yes, he's the prior and had other responsibilities, too. But BENEDICTINE MONKS SPENT MOST OF THEIR TIME PRAYING AS A GROUP.).
Oh no, I'm sorry, it's not that men shouldn't abuse their pregnant wives. It's that pregnant women shouldn't make their husbands abuse them.
Those religious, sort of "self-help" books--which were enormously popular among lay readers--also give us a couple of scraps of info into the lives of pregnant women that are harder to see in medical texts (which overwhelmingly focus on the infant). Dietrich Koelde in 15th century Germany writes:
One final, brighter note. The mortality rate for a woman giving birth in the Middle Ages was somewhere between 1.5% to 2.5%, to the best of our abilities to figure--and lower in rural parishes than urban ones. So there's at least one part of PotE that isn't wrong, but it's also not very typical for medieval Europe. But wow, would the other outcome change the rest of the story!
I'm not sure how I feel in terms of historical accuracy with Tom and his family leaving Jonathan behind. On one hand, within medieval Christianity at the time, anyone not baptized was bound for hell. On the other, at least in 15th century Germany, there were definitely religious instruction books whose authors did backflips trying to justify non-baptized babies' entrance into heaven. It's kind of heartbreaking to read, actually.
This is one of the hardest thing for modern folks to wrap their head around, I've found. It took me a lot of reading to really understand how important religion was to people back then, in a way that it usually isn't for hardly anyone nowadays. But it's vital if one wants to understand the period.
But surely men would have some responsibilities in taking care of their pregnant wives? Let's listen to Koelde again:
Yes, I think any cynicism here is a modern projection. I am as sure as you are that this kind of situation happened a lot, but I don't think we should see any kind of trick at work--a kindness at the least, and very possibly something that the midwife could also convince herself of.
The reference to dancing is kind of hilarious because a lot of didactic writers (and city sumptuary codes) frowned on public dancing, but I digress. Information like this couldn't apply very well to women who had to work daily, but the general principle of not being able to do the heaviest labor/heavy labor not being the healthiest idea was well integrated into later medieval culture.
Would that delegation of Church duties also extend to the mother (for example some portion of the Last Rites or other religious activities typical at the deathbed). Or is that a meaningless question because those types of activities came about later?
Do we have any source texts acknowledging that a midwife may have misrepresented the status of a newborn baby (i.e. pretending that they were alive for a minute) in order to perform a baptism?
Since the Church in the Middle Ages was (really) about getting people into heaven rather than keeping them out, theologians and preachers really did try to bend and flex rules when they could. So lay people could be deputized to perform baptism in extremis, although it's almost always mentioned with reference to midwives. There are even writers in the late Middle Ages who will admit that technically you can confess your sins directly to God right before you die, and it will count the same as the sacrament of confession...but here are all the reasons you shouldn't rely on that. (See also: purgatory.).
Take Mary Magdalene, for one thing. We can snort a little (and before/in the Reformation, there was some snorting) about the medieval Church mixing up three biblical women into one, and extrapolating from "Jesus drove seven demons out of her" into "Mary Magdalene was a sex worker." And then there's the rest of the medieval legend, in which Mary spends time in the Egyptian desert doing penance for the sin of lust, then goes to Marseilles and evangelizes...France. And that seems quaint and kind of laughable.
That said, medieval Christianity does seem really, well, weird to people today in a lot of ways. The flagellants who publicly scourged themselves during the Black Death so God would lift the pestilence? Devotional literature that encouraged late medieval (mostly) women to mentally envision themselves accompanying Jesus through the Passion to the cross, to picture and feel what it was like to stick their fingers into the nail holes? Monks who had visions of drinking from the side wound of Jesus, who had visions of breastfeeding baby Jesus?
Last Rites in the sense of a priest hearing a dying person's confession and giving them one last Eucharistic meal was absolutely a medieval practice--the Eucharist host in this case even had the special name "viaticum." (As in via-tecum, "with you on the way".).
But then--how many questions do we get on AskHistorians about how the Nativity (i.e. the first Christmas) really have worked in practice? What did Jesus actually do for a living? And so forth. We're doing the same thing medieval people were--we're trying to take the splinters of a story we get in the Christian New Testament and build them up into a coherent historical narrative. We have different resources, methods, perspectives, and motivations than did people in the Middle Ages, but the underlying drive to make sense out of scraps is the same.
You can call it misrepresentation or not; to people in the Middle Ages, it wasn't, and what mattered was having as much confidence as possible that an infant who died too young was nevertheless in God's arms instead of the devil's.
A popular miracle story--in collections submitted as part of a sort of "application package" for someone's sainthood, i.e. completely legitimate in both the Church's and general Christians' eyes--was despondent parents visiting a shrine with their dead or stillborn infant, and the saint reviving the child just long enough for it to be baptized. Some saints, like St. Faith/Sainte Foy, were rather well known for performing this type of miracle.
So when you see people whipping themselves during the Black Death: they view pestilence as God's physical punishment of humanity for their moral sins. Castigating their flesh is the physical way to communicate to God that people are sorry, are repenting, won't do it again. It is a sacrifice of their physical bodies in imitation of Jesus' sacrifice on the cross, for a more immediate physical effect than the sweeping salvation for all time (of course).
It's been remarked that there are two ways to study the Middle Ages: one, as the foundation of the modern world; two, as an alien era far removed from us. They are, of course, both true.