There are, it should be noted, a wide variety of "electric fish," that have been encountered by many cultures, beyond the South American electric eel (such as electric catfish in Egypt and China, and electric rays in the Mediterranean). That encounters with these fish produced numbing effects that were remarked upon and frequently used as medical therapies in both Ancient Rome and China, and electric eels were used in this way by natives in South America. Hippocrates described the electrical Mediterranean torpedo with the name _narkē_, which is to say, the same origin as "narcosis," which is a description of its numbing effect. Those Ancient Greco-Roman naturalists who tried to imagine what was causing the effect tended to think it was a form of poison.
European understanding of electricity in part derived from studies of these fish and their organs in the 17th century. Alessandro Volta's first battery (the voltaic pile) was described by its inventor as an "artificial" replication of the natural organs of animal electricity found in such fish, and there were deep debates in the 18th century about whether electricity was essentially an animal phenomena or a physical one.
The conclusive connection between the discharge of these fish and electricity was not made until the 1740s with the development of Leyden jars (basically capacitors for storing static electricity).
For more detail and information, there is a very nice article on the history of "animal electricity" here: Chau H. Wu, "Electric Fish and the Discovery of Animal Electricity: The mystery of the electric fish motivated research into electricity and was instrumental in the emergence of electrophysiology," _American Scientist_ 72, no. 6 (1984), 598-607.
The word was arimna, "that which deprives of motion." Looks similar to the narkē/torpēre etymologies suggested by you and u/bitwiseshiftleft. Funny how that works, similar naming from similar experiences and likely similar conclusions.
It’s probably also worth commenting on the name torpedo. These fish and rays are named from the Latin torpere meaning to be numb, stiff or lethargic. A torpedo is thus something that makes you (or other things) numb, stiff or lethargic. The root also came into English in the words torpor and torpid. The naval weapons — first mines, then self-propelled anti-ship charges — are named after the fish.
This is consistent with poraquê and narkē: electric fish are historically named after their ability to numb, paralyze or stun you.
While you mention there had been discussions in the 1740s regarding the animal, I come to this conclusion based off a similar look at the etymology of opossum and the history of the study of the animal. It was known as early as the early 1600s, but no species in the genus Didelphis even received a proper binomial name (Didelphis marsupialis, a species within the same range as the electric eel), and the species for which the word was borrowed was not formally named . The word opossum was also with European colonization in the 1700s, which may be part of why it had more lasting power versus whatever was potentially used for the electric eel in this case.
It's obvious where electric eel came from, though: the specific name electricus, and its close resemblance to an eel, an animal for which . Thus, the modern English name likely followed from this scientific publication providing interest from a distance, and all prior names were temporary borrowings (or even just eel, as I figure many colonists were not interested in analyzing the fauna or particularly invested in memorizing locals' names for it, and of course the English did not have as much success in South America).