In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I would like to live in a nation that stands by its Constitution -- one where traitors and enemies of the state are prosecuted timely and to its fullest extent. What we have today is lawlessness.
Right wing extremists are lawless. They want to impose their hierarchy with violence. These are not honorable “citizens” and Flynn is one of their deranged leaders.
All in the name of “freedom of speech!” Republicans get upset if law enforcement agencies listen into their phone calls with foreign nationals even with FISA permits. They hide behind this cloak of secrecy and are usually only caught when they are the “other party” speaking with foreign agents and spies.
It's incredibly astonishing that someone like him can continue to work against the US and spew out not only propaganda but that of our foreign adversaries for years and years and no matter who is in control of our DOJ, nothing happens to him. His brother is still an active duty lt. colonel which I can only assume is sharing our intel with our enemies as well.
Makes you wonder why none of this applies to either of the Flynn's. I don't believe in the death penalty but considering how many people have died because of Mike's propaganda and disinformation and how endangering his brother likely is... People forget that Charles was in the "war room" with Trump during the J6 Insurrection so we cannot pretend that he's not an accomplice for his brother's agenda.
“Whoever, owing allegiance to the United States, levies war against them or adheres to their enemies, giving them aid and comfort within the United States or elsewhere, is guilty of treason and shall suffer death, or shall be imprisoned not less than five years and fined under this title but not less than $10,000; and shall be incapable of holding any office under the United States.”.