They're possibly on the tipping point of insolvency so you should be acting faster than others who have been impacted.
How is it another larger (10 fold larger) corp buys out their contract and I would lose my investment? The larger corp is publicly traded, they're definitely not going anywhere.
They could be "owned" by a larger corporation, but in some weird ways they keep it entirely divided from their liability.
Alright, so last week some time I tracked down a few other families that were in similar circumstances, but it seems like their emotions are getting the better of them and they've retained an attorney. I communicated with him. His feeling initially was excitement to represent me ($$) and then when he found out I agreed to cancel my contract he said ok well they WILL pay you that money back and if that makes you happy you should avoid using my relatively expensive services. His feeling is this was a big pay day for the original owners of the business. I'm not trying to be defensive, just offering a little more color.
It sounds like you have sought the advice of an attorney involved with the matter, but that you do not trust what they said. The advice still holds - talk to an attorney that will represent your interests.
Get a lawyer. They know more than most people here, including me. I'm just trying to point you in the right direction.
Shelbyvill East Street Homes, Inc., then hires Somefirm Architects, who assign John Smith, RA., to be the design professional.
They form a corporation that they own to form a separate legal person to take all liability, build the development, sell all of the homes, then dissolve the subsidiary corporation. That way, if somebody tries to sue, the legal person that constructed the houses no longer exists.
I can't say what's going on with your development, but it's common for companies to form a corporate shell for individual development projects.
TL;DR, as other above have noted, the big national firm might be fine, but if they have a subsidiary--a very common arrangement--that subsidiary might not be fine, and once it's dissolved you have nobody to go after.