You're maybe wrong about your assumption about conquering sophisticated people rather than great tracts of land, but you're certainly overlooking several important things.
Caesar didn't just conquer Gaul - and remember that the Gauls were Rome's historical bogyman. Caesar was born into a situation that put a spotlight on him. His uncle Marius was the only Roman before Caesar to hold seven consulships, six of them consecutively, to fight off the threat of the Teutones and Cimbri (a Gallic/Germanic confederation), and became known as the "third founder of Rome" for that accomplishment. Marius' party lost Rome's first civil war, and Sulla banned images of Marius from appearing in public. When Caesar's aunt, Marius' wife, died, he gave the funeral oration and unilaterally rolled out the images of Marius for the funeral. Caesar was 31. That was the year he was elected quaestor, the lowest rank on the cursus honorum. From this low position and sad occasion Caesar resurrected the memory of his uncle and made a direct connection between himself and Rome's third founder.
In 63, he was elected to both the office of praetor - one step away from the consulship - and the pontifex maximus - Rome's highest religious position. He borrowed heavily to bribe voters, and had to sneak out of Rome to avoid his creditors to take up the governorship of Spain, but he won.
His civil war was not fought only (well, mostly, but let's not get complicated about it) in Italy like Sulla's was. Caesar's war was fought in Italy, Greece, Egypt, Africa, and Spain. When Caesar celebrated his triumph, it was the most lavish triumph ever celebrated up to that point. It is known as the Quadruple Triumph, celebrating victories in Gaul, Egypt, Africa, and Pontus (that's the "veni vidi vici" campaign). You can read about the extravagance of the Quadruple Triumph in Appian .
I'll skip the details of the events following the civil war and the assassination. Here's the kicker: he had really good press after he died.
As the Pontiff and Dictator with Censorship Caesar [though he was using it with or without the title] could make Cleopatra a citizen was he chose to, right? Ignoring the obviously political issues of whether a citizen could be monarch thus does Cleopatra can be a Pharaoh or the purpose of making her one as he was already married thus divorcing her [whose father was an important factor in Roman politics] and marrying a foreign 'witch' may be worse for him politically speaking, if he wants to do it legally he has the capacity to do so, right?
I'm not able to say whether Caesar would not be iconic without Augustus' efforts at popularizing him, but I am certain that Augustus set out on purpose to make Caesar an icon, as Augustus' connection to Caesar was central to his own political power. And he was quite successful at it, hence Caesar became a title rather than a name all the way into the 20th century, as you note.
He DID NOT change the constitution of Rome from a republic to a dictatorship. Dictator in the Roman system was a constitutional position; he simply applied it in new ways, and he wasn't the first to do so. That was Sulla. Caesar WAS the first Roman to put his own face on a coin. His affair with Cleopatra was a famous scandal, and had political importance. Cleopatra was the last of the Hellenistic monarchs, and Egypt was incredibly rich. When she gave birth to Caesar's only male child (and living child, since Julia died ages ago), there was a real risk of an international crisis, depending on whether Caesar made the kid his heir.
Octavian, on hearing he was Caesar's heir, came to Rome with no levers of power. He used his connection to Caesar to get leverage against Marc Antony first, and then against the assassins, and then against Marc Antony again. He stressed pietas, one of the most important Roman virtues, as the driving force behind his project for killing the assassins. During the course of his reign, he promoted his connection with Caesar, and also constructed parallels between himself and Aeneas, who also was famous for his pietas, in sponsoring work like the Aeneid. If you want some scholarship on how Octavian (AKA Augustus) did this, you might start with The Power of Images in the Age of Augustus by Zanker.
Cleopatra was a foreign ruler - Rome's rules forbade her from entering Rome (the Forum at least, I think the pomerium as well). When she 'visited' Rome, she lived in one of Caesar's villas outside Rome.
Cleopatra couldn't be a foreign ruler AND a Roman. And I doubt she would have given up being Pharaoh.
I suppose. I've never heard of an individual woman gaining the citizenship, not even through manumission. Whole communities could gain the citizenship, like in the aftermath of the Social War. Later, all citizens of Alexandria (which didn't include the Jewish population) would be Roman citizens.
The most recent biography I'm aware of is Goldworthy's Caesar: life of a Colossus. I'm not really impressed with that book, and it is colossal. My favorite biography is Meier's Caesar. It's originally in German but has been translated into English. While Meier was an excellent scholar, for some reason in this book he chose not to cite sources. I don't know why. /u/xenophontheathenian prefers Caesar: Politician and Statesman by Gelzer.