Hi there - we're happy to approve your question related to your creative project, and we are happy for people to answer. However, we should warn you that many flairs have become reluctant to answer questions for aspiring novelists and the like, based on past experience: some people working on creative projects have a tendency to try to pump historians for trivia while ignoring the bigger points they were making, while others have a tendency to argue with historians when the historical reality does not line up with what's needed for a particular scene or characterization. Please respect the answers of people who have generously given you their time, even if it's not always what you want to hear.
Additionally, as amazing as our flair panel is, we should also point out that /r/AskHistorians is not a professional historical consultation service. If you're asking a question here because you need vital research for a future commercial product such as a historical novel, you may be better off engaging a historical consultant at a fair hourly rate to answer these questions for you. We don't know what the going rate for consultancy work would be in your locality, but it may be worth looking into that if you have in-depth or highly plot-reliant questions for this project. Some /r/AskHistorians flairs could be receptive to working as a consultant in this way. However, if you wish for a flair here to do this work for you, you will need to organize this with them yourselves.
India by this time had well developed and defined caste structures throughout the subcontinent. This system divided society into 4 major divisions, namely, Brahmins, Kshatriyas, Vaishyas and Shudras. The Brahmins occupied the highest position in the caste structure, the Kshatriyas the second the Vaishyas the third and the Shudras the last and fourth place within the caste stricture. Those who remained outside this structure were considered "Mlechha" that can mean both "unclean" or "untouchable".
By the 11th century, feudalism was well established in the Northern part of the subcontinent. The demographic distribution of society during this period is interesting and in some ways predictable. The rural land owning peasantry was formed by either the Brahmin or Kshatriya castes. Since there was little to no concept of "individual private property" yet, the rights to one's land were established by recognition of patrimony. Since the Brahmins and Kshatriyas occupied the two highest caste tiers and were the backbone of feudal armies and beaurocratic structures, the granting of land to these groups in return for fixed revenue or military service or both, was common practice. We find instances of grants to Brahmins being made during the Ancient and classical period as well for administrative and political purposes. Such grants were known as "Brahmadeya" literally meaning "given to Brahmins" and were meant to expand agriculture and integrate tribal people's into the caste structure through a process called Sanskritisation.
The medieval period in Indian historiography, usually dated between the 12th century onwards to the beginning of the 18th century was a period that saw the emergence and developnent of new institutions and social classes owing to the advent of Turks, Afghans, Iranians and Central Asians as a result of the establishment of several Islamic kingdoms in North India and subsequently throughout the entire subcontinent, since the beginning of the 13th century.
These land owning peasants provided military service and revenue to the Imperial treasury and these revenues were remitted from these peasants to the Imperial revenue collectors via intermediaries, who occupied a special role in Indian society since the classical or Gupta Era (c. 300CE - 700CE). These intermediaries claimed the ancestral right to collect and transfer revenues and formed an important component of Indian feudal society. While earlier they were known by many names depending on region and language, during the medieval period and especially after the establishment of Mughal rule in the late 16th century, these intermediaries came to be known as zamindars.
Social and economic mobility during the Pre-Medieval period, was usually a feature of the upper echelons of the caste hierarchy, meaning the Kshatriyas and Brahmins. Brahmin and Kshatriya peasants could serve in the levies and armies of their kings and/or "zamindars" or local Rajas and through their continued service they earned the patronage, favour and support of their employer. These systems of patronage were very much centred around caste and clan loyalties. It was common for Brahmin zamindars to rise to prominence in regions where there were many Brahmins to begin with. Such zamindars or local feudal Lords then depended on the continued service and support of his caste brethren to rise to higher offices, meanwhile his supporters counted on continued patronage and opportunities as a reward for said support. This meant opportunities in the beaurocracy and military and that further augmented one's social status and personal wealth.
Therefore, social and economic mobility was quite possible during the medieval period, but only for those sections of society who had since the Vedic period 1500BCE - 500BCE acquired a privileged and powerful position in society. Shudras, landless labourers and untouchables had little opportunity available to them, if any at all.
Meanwhile, the urban centres were usually occupied by the traders or craftsmen, that is, the Vaishyas. The Shudras on the other hand served as either landless farm labourers in the rural country or as wage labourers in the cities.
Some examples of the powerful land owning classes asserting their authority and power to carve out spheres of autonomy and "self rule" are the Brahmins of Oudh under the Brahmin Narayan Dynasty in Benares. The Jats under Churamana and then under Surajmal. The Sikhs under the various misls and eventually under the leadership Maharaja Ranjit Singh.
One example however, of a underprivileged section of society finding a way to assert autonomy and gain social and economic status, was the Marathas. Historically, the Marathas weren't considered Kshatriyas, but after the rise of the Bahamani Sultanate (1347-1527) and the Deccani Sultanates that rose after its disintegration, the Marathas found regular employment in the armies of these Sultanates. By the time the Mughals began their attempts to conquer the Deccan, the Marathas had established a hegemony in the local military labour market. Eventually under the leadership of their king Shivaji, they managed to carve out their own independent kingdom.
Therefore, it was possible for certain sections of Indian society to acquire wealth and social status and in the rarest of rare cases it was possible for an underprivileged section of society to rise to prominence as well. The prerequisites however remained largely the same. A strong caste fraternity, centred around the goal of collective gains. The ability and will to deliver military service under absurd conditions in an age when the chances of death were quite high and finally, the ability to sieze opportunities when they presented themselves in order to gain a degree to regional autonomy, if that was indeed their ultimate goal. I believe this should establish some context and background.
Now, we look at the medieval period once again. We find that with the advent of the Turks, the Afghans and the Mughals the pre established caste structures remained largely unchanged. While newer beaurocratic roles and positions opened up, the Hindu population of North India, especially its feudal and land owning classes, found themselves competing for royal favour with their Muslim counterparts. Therefore, during the period from the 13th century onwards, the means for rise in social and economic spheres were not simply military and administrive services rendered, as before, but there was also a need to adopt a more tolerant and open outlook towards society especially in military and beaurocratic spheres. For example, during the reign of Emperor Akbar, the House of the Hindu Rajput(Kshatriya) rulers of Ajmer, the Kachwahas, rose to prominence and became the leading noble house of the country. This was because the Kachwaha kings adopted a policy of political alignment with the Mughals and ignored their religious differences. And through successful and continued military service, such as during the conquest of Mewar, the conquest of Bengal and the conquest of Afghanistan and Qandahar they secured imperial favour and patronage.
Now, in the ancient world, new "kingdoms" would emerge out of the the growth in power and numbers of a clan or group of clans who through some establishment of relation and blood ties, would see themselves as one tribe. Tribes would control land as far as their people and their settlements stretched, and would conquer and assimilate or even destroy other tribes. Soon, land came to be associated with realm, or what one ruled over or identified with. And this led to decline in associating the political influence of a people from the individuals that constituted said people, and rise in association of political influence and political extent with the territory that was under control of said people. That sedentary life was adopted by Steppe Pastoralist Indo-Aryans and land was now considered the greatest source of wealth along with cattle, which also made land the object which determined power and poltical influence.
Brahmins were merely land owners in rural areas where Sudras really did agriculture? Can you comment a bit about this? I see Brahmins associated with temples, at least in southern India, and not agricultural land either in terms of skill or ownership.
For the first example, we have the case of the Marathas. Let us observe the Maratha example more closely.