In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
So yes while I see the problems with wanting to repeal section 230, and I don't agree repealing it is the right solution, I do think someone needs to be held responsible for allowing this sort of activity on platforms they own while outsourcing the actual moderation and work to volunteers with their own agendas. I think regulation could accomplish that.
Yeah if only it were so simple. You don't have to worry about me ruining it for you. Others are already doing that. Me not using Reddit or social media doesn't prevent people from sharing fake news articles or astroturfing subreddits. Me deleting Facebook didn't stop others from using it as a news source. It doesn't stop people from getting doxxed, or stop people from brigading and manipulating posts to ensure that they drive discussion towards specific comments and down vote the rest. it doesn't prevent moderators from going on power trips, deleting any post they disagree with personally.
I don't agree. Anyone that thinks this is a good idea isn't thinking about the long-term consequences. I have to assume you like using Reddit since you're posting here. This change alone could destroy or fundamentally alter all social media, including Reddit.
Sure, I avoid these things by not using social media. And the majority of people who use social media are not participating in this sort of manipulation. But the few bad actors who have no scruples about manipulating and using everything at their disposal to push a narrative don't use social media like you and I use it.
To just continue to allow this sort of breakdown of communication is more harmful than doing nothing. It will destroy social media on its own if we do nothing to fix it.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The internet is just a tool. It might be occasionally misused (though nowhere near to the extent it is made out to be) but the overall good of having it is far outweighed by any misuse by bad actors.
By that logic we should do away with or heavily regulate every medium that lets us interact with each other including the press, newspapers, magazines, the telephone, text messaging (SMS), the postal service, etc.
And, depending on the ways it is done, having the government step in and regulate it would just get you:
Except the press and newspapers don't let you interact directly with each other. Sure you can send a letter to the editor, or reply by mail, but no one is under any obligation to print what you send. Plus slander laws do exist, so newspapers can't just say whatever they want without repercussions.
But you do really paint quite the picture of your view on regulations with your statement on what would happen. You're basically saying regulation = bad, which pretty much explains your stance.
Slander and defamation laws broadly apply for various communication channels. The internet is no different. You can't legally slander people on the internet. There are already laws against that.
2. Gimping and/or suppression to the extent companies are afraid to host sites like Reddit for fear of legal repercussions and nobody wants to use the sites due to lack of innovation and/or suppressed speech and functionality.
What you’ve typed here suggests that we need to sit down and have a real discussion in order to get at the answers, and I agree. But in the following statement you seem to contradict yourself:
Anti-vax Congress-people spreading lies through the MSM about the safety of the vaccine. Or MTG making outlandish comments about Jewish space lasers. Or, in general, a huge percentage of statements made by republicans and republican Congress-people in the MSM.
Donald Trump when he was POTUS using his platform to tell people COVID would disappear. Trump suggesting direct application of disinfectants inside the body could combat the virus, or any number of other times he was at odds with his own COVID response team.
Anyway, the internet already has regulations to the extent it can without those regulations being overly arbitrary. And even then, much of it is arbitrary.
Should we make a law that says we can't talk on the phone anymore? Should we not be allowed to talk to each other in person? Should we force telecommunications companies to monitor every phone call to make sure there is no misinformation? How do we balance content moderation with the 1st amendment? Where do you draw the line?
There aren't any concrete differences that I know of. Some like to make a distinction between sites being user-focused vs. topic-focused, but I don't think that fits very well given most websites do both things.
If the point of the real discussion is to convince people that some regulation makes sense, then how could people see it before having the discussion?
That's why you see people abusing the DMCA to take down lawful content and it's why people below the age of 13 are violating the terms of service if they sign up for most websites. It's easier to blanket ban that demographic than to deal with the broad legal challenges that would ensue if businesses didn't do that.
What do you call the likes of COPPA, the GDPR and the DMCA? It sounds like what you two want is regulations on speech over communications mediums, which is basically a fascist's dream.
For example, throwaway has mentioned that he has problems with astroturfing, brigading, "sharing fake news articles", and "manipulating posts". Let's say we make a law that allows regulations for that. How do you determine what constitutes manipulating posts (while still having any individual user content sharing system such as upvote/downvote or recommendation algorithms or even a search function), brigading (vs majority opinion), astroturfing (without privacy violations) and "sharing fake news".
And even if there were a reliable way to do that (which there isn't), it's still subjective enough to allow companies with the resources to sue smaller companies out of existence with baseless lawsuits over illegitimate violations.