You're not required to register until you have been served with the SC-100 and the order. Further, late registrations aren't disqualifying -- the site says parties can register, and have until 2 days before the hearing to complete the process.
Generally, absent a court order, evidence is not exchanged prior to trial in small claims. If the ODR procedure says otherwise, then that's what must be followed, except that won't be triggered until you are properly served.
Probably not until the time of trlal, given that the site allows late registrations and completion up until two days before the trial. You can ask at the time of trial if plaintiff made no effort to participate, but I wouldn't spend all of your precious time at trial arguing it. Raise it and move on.
And again, I would not fixate on the ODR. Because it's not required by statute, I doubt judges will be dismissing cases entirely based on failure to comply. They'll probably treat it like failure to send a demand letter and deny court costs if the plaintiff wins but didn't comply.
Makes sense, just for information: I was served, just within the 30 days before the hearing, and the plaintiff did supply evidence, but failed to provide it to me prior to 10 days before the date of the hearing. Now approaching the hearing, the plaintiff hadn’t signed up for ODR, and postponed the hearing. I’m not sure one what grounds or if there needs to be grounds to postpone it.
Unless LA has a local rule on this I'm not familiar with, which is possible, it's not required under state law to exchange evidence before trial in a small claims matter.
If they've already successfully postponed it and given you notice, there's not much you can do about the postponement. The court won't allow those indefinitely.
Again, ODR doesn't have to be complete until two days before the hearing and there's apparently no penalty for registering late, so there's not anything to be done at this point.
If the case goes to trial, you will have very little time to say what you have to say and to present your evidence to the judge -- maybe 5 minutes, total, including answering any questions the judge has. It's up to you if you want to spend that time arguing the case should be dismissed based on failure to participate in ODR, but I can't say I think it's in your best interests to do so.