That being said, doctrines like inevitable discovery and the good faith exemption can gut a lot of Fourth and Fifth amendment protections. His age is readily discoverable by booking him and identifying him through his ID. It doesn’t really matter if there was a violation if they were certain to independently find out the information anyway.
If the individual is not under arrest when being questioned, they are not in a custodial situation and don’t need to be advised of their right, even if they are suspected of a crime or are actively giving incriminating information.
Miranda warnings are only required when two triggers have been met - when the person is in a custodial situation, and the government is questioning the individual or making statements which would reasonably prompt the individual to make an incriminating statement.
Edit: For example, Maine has a ten factor test used to evaluate if a subject is considered “in custody” for purposes of Miranda.
That being said, substance is more important than form. The dividing line isn’t when police put the cuffs on and tell him he’s under arrest. It’s when a reasonable person would feel like they lack the ability to disengage from the situation and leave or refuse to answer questions. (To the level of “a formal arrest or restraint on freedom of movement of the degree associated with a formal arrest”). This can be triggered by the officers actions, the number of officers present, actively being restrained or told to stay in a location, etc.
They also knew prior things about me from past bookings so that is relevant information to that and they were asking the motel staff if I had booked a room, to which they replied yes.
More interesting to me than the Miranda issue is whether they needed a warrant to enter your hotel room. Generally they do, even if they have permission from the hotel owner to enter. The exception would be if you or the girl consented to them being allowed in (either of you could do it, even if the other refused). Or they could could make the argument that exceptional circumstances existed, due to the potential for rape/kidnapping. It would depend a lot on the information they had available at the time and the reasonableness of their action.
Thanks for this reply. I do believe though that after I was told to sit on the couch, I tried to not say anything, and I covered my mouth for the first two times he asked me. Then he checked on the girl, then asked me again. After that he said he was going to lose it if I had to answer again. Could it be argued that in that shock and heat of the situation that I tried to restrain and not say anything?