In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Let's not forget that we even have countries in Nato, who are actually in dispute over a similar situation to Ukraine/Russia who are treaty obligated to protect each other, but hate each other.
Does she have problem with the US giving military aid to other countries. It doesn't seem like it since they aren't popular talking points. We give over $3 billion annually to Israel. If it was truly about allocating money, she would be talking about Israel, but its not. Its all a republican talking point.
Putin spent $300 million+ in the last election, given to Republicans. Greene is the dumb-simpleton who says this shit outloud.
Very good summary. When you then add on top a natural foundation of nationalism, which is a rich vein for populist leaders like Putin, Trump, Johnson and Xi to tap into then you have a heady cocktail of political emotions.
She is a creation of a society where a huge percentage don't have a passport, don't understand other cultures, and have never been invaded or had the threat of invasion. They may have been attacked, but it was people like her screamed appeasement and isolationism as a policy to the Third Reich. Would the US be the dominant superpower now if they had followed her policies in 1940.
I was in Dallas recently and DFW was marketing itself as having more connections than any other US airport. I accept that the States has so much to offer, why would you leave? But culturally it means a low potential to understand other cultures.
Hence my point about there being quite a bit of ignorance. You have pretty much illustrated it very well.
Yes, have a read. Pretty much an identical narrative to Ukraine. Turkey says that the Northern (Turkish) minority are being treated differently. They invade. Get held. United Nations get involved. An unrecognised state of Northern Cyprus gets created. UN Troops still there today. Both Turkey and Cyprus both signatories to NATO. But hate each other!