Before I go into your points, we need to understand how the monetary system in the US/CS worked. Unlike today, the US was using a bimetallic standard, mainly gold and silver, to help with exchange. After 1870, the US became part of the Gold Standard - set up to facilitate international trade. Nowadays, we use a fiat currency system, where essentially the bills are not worth anything other than what the Federal Reserve says it is worth. But before the US was removed from the Gold standard in 1971, usually every dollar had a ratio of gold and silver that the bearer of that bill could withdraw from a bank, often in the form of coins. During times of trouble, valuables are hoarded, often causing coin shortages or other economic issues I won't dive into here. If you look at older notes, and especially on notes of this era, the language "payable to the bearer in silver \[or gold\]" appears on the bills. The value is in the metal of the coin, not necessarily the bill. The bill is valuable because you have the ability to go to the bank and get its value in valuable gold or silver. But, since these are troubling times, everyone has run to the bank to exchange their bills for coins. No coins = worthless piece of paper.
Now, lets dig into legal tender - what is is legal to make payments with? Legal tender is something that must be accepted as a payment, by law. The government decides this and it can be changed. This is important - paper money was not legal tender at this point in US history, only coins issued by the US government. Bills were issued by banks, not the government, so the government had no obligation to accept these notes. The bills generally need to be backed by hard assets, such as gold or silver. If the bank is not good for the payment, the bill is worthless. To put it more generally, at this time period, the bills are more of an obligation to honor a payment in gold or silver to the holder, as long as the bank's store of coins hold out.
Now, money is only worth what people believe it is worth. High supply means low demand. The confederates had to make more and more currency and were fighting a losing war. Plus, public opinion mattered - if people believed that currency could not be redeemed, it went down in value. Since the Confederate notes were only backed by a promise after the war, and the confederacy began to lose, their currency value dropped. Gettysburg alone dropped the value of the Greyback by 20%. On top of that, later notes were to be paid out after a treaty was signed, and there is no way the Confederate government would survive long enough to pay out on all of the money it issued, even if the US allowed it to continue as an independent nation. Early in the war the Confederate notes were more valuable - the CSA dollar was worth .90c of gold in Dec 1861and by 1863, only 6 cents, and lower still as the war progressed.
At the outbreak of the Civil war, both North and South issued banknotes. US issued $50 million in legal-tender $1 Greenbacks payable to the bearer on demand in gold, while the confederates issued $1,000,000 in "Greyback" notes with one important difference: the payments were not promised or backed by hard assets. Rather, they promised a payment from the Confederate Government after the war. The Confederates kept issuing these notes as the war progressed to cover their debts, backed only by a promise. $867 million worth of bills were printed in large denominations.
You might ask, why didn't they just strike gold and silver coins? Simply, they could not afford to as any valuable metal was shipped to Europe to pay for war goods. They just could not support any significant economy and fight a war at the same time.
Was the money considered completely worthless right after the war? You said as little as 6c/dollar for 63 and going down.
1. Collector value for Confederate noted depend on supply and demand. There is a high supply of these notes as the war goes on, but the earlier notes are more collectible and rare. These early are worth thousands in good condition. In circulated, maybe a few hundred. The later notes are generally worth less than $50 each depending on denomination and condition.
Obviously there was no way to cash out of the money since the government backing it was abolished. But was any of the currency still used or was it just thrown away/kept in a box somewhere. I know that speculators bought bonds during the great depression for pennies on the dollar of cash, I guess I'm wondering if there was anything similar, maybe among elites who wanted to preserve the confederacy even after losing.
I can't say for certain if some people kept using it, but from an economic standpoint, it could be possible local commerce continued in Confederate bills after the fall, but anything significant probably immediately died out. If I wanted to collect payment in those bills, that's my right, but the US government would still expect and collect it's tax in legal tender. I would need some US money at some point.
Yes. 100% worthless - the issuing government did not exist and it was not legal tender anywhere, least of all in the United States, which reabsorbed the Confederacy. An IOU is worth what you think the issuer can offer - and these notes were nothing less than fancy IOUs. The lowest statistic I see is 3c on the Confederate dollar compared to a US dollar. Once the CSA was abolished - no government was around to redeem the money. I know there are hoards of CSA bills that get found, but I can't say if they were saved and never retrieved, or purposefully put away for future use. I'm certain people saved some as souvenirs, as they did in Weimar inflation bills, but for any economic use they were not worth the paper they were printed on.
You mentioned specie left the south for Europe to pay for war goods, which makes sense. Do we have any sense if foreign governments accepted southern paper currency at first, or were they weary early on and accepted only specie or trade goods from the get go?
In Europe or America, were there people or businesses who would trade currencies around for profit? Like you see when you cross a border/airports today?
Again, that is a bit out of what I understand from the situation - so take it with a grain of salt. Gold and silver are what the bills represent, and it's a harder sell to have another country collect payment in your own banknote over their own, again which represents gold or silver - your citizens may be forced to use it, but other countries certainly are not. Many countries did not recognize the Confederate states for varying reasons, but what silver and gold they offered was as good as any other. In general, the international trade and gold standard mentioned in the main reply and a few others are most important as they relate values of gold and silver internationally.
What happened in August 1971 is that the US ended gold payments under the Bretton Woods System. This was a system set up at an international conference in 1944 whereby participating countries agreed to peg their exchange rates (within a fluctuating band) against the US dollar, and the US dollar in turn was pegged at $35 to an ounce of gold (which was the same rate FDR set under the Gold Reserve Act when he raised it from $20 an ounce). But it wasn't regular citizens who convert dollars to gold under the system - it specifically was participating foreign governments and central banks who could convert their US dollar reserves to gold, if they so wished. And wish more of them did in the late 60s and early 70s, as the US dollar was experiencing inflation from the high expenses of the Vietnam War. That inflation was getting exported to other members of the Bretton Woods System (they had to inflate their currencies to keep in their agreed exchange rate bands), and exchanging dollars for gold was a way to cash out, if you will. US gold reserves fell from over 20 metric tons to just over 8 metric tons between 1960 and 1971, and that alone was a big reason for the ending of the convertability: it simply was no longer sustainable.
Thank you for this correction, I got a bit too focused and blew by this very important piece - I was a bit to generic, so I appreciate this being clarified!
So this isn't quite accurate. The Gold Reserve Act of 1934 ended the private holding of gold for monetary purposes - from this point you couldn't cash out your paper dollars for gold. This also ended the use of gold certificates as a form of paper currency (although silver certificates continued to be issued and could be redeemed in silver until 1968). This effectively took the United States off of the international gold standard, although by that point it was effectively the US and France left on the standard anyway.