There are no legal ramifications for testing positive for THC unless you are under some sort of parole or plea agreement that specifies so.
I'm unsure what angle the office would be trying to pull, it's entirely possible that she consumed THC unknowingly.
At the end of the day, if it's not restricting her from access to her prescription from the office, I don't think there's anything to worry about here.
There is also no "universal" record for this sort of thing, so there's no reason to suspect that any psychiatrist she would visit in the future would even have record of that information, let alone bar her from necessary medication.
CBD products aren't really regulated all that great and it's super common for them to contain small amounts of THC even if the product label states otherwise. And THC can remain detectible for quite some time. It can be found in urine over 30 days after use in some cases.
If you have concerns over the state of the office she is attending, find a new one. They can drop her as a client whether or not she tests positive; they don't need a drug test to refuse service and have no reason to manufacture test results in order to terminate services.
Possible and probable are two very different things to consider and I yield to occums razor: the simplest conclusion to draw after some consideration is that the psychiatrists office is looking to dummy some drug test results and stop prescribing Klonopin to a few of their patients so they can convince the DEA they are doing something about the narcotics problem and the DEA will get off their back. My girlfriend just drew the short straw.
I understand your level of trust in your GF, but you are, in fact, not her. Whether she mistakenly, purposefully, or unknowingly consumed THC is something only a test could identify for sure.
It's highly unlikely she consumed THC unknowingly. She stopped even so much as taking the CBD once she became aware she might be tested, even though the CBD products she consumed were supposed to be 0 spectrum THC. We dont go to parties. It's not like she would have eaten a brownie not realizing it was a pot brownie. When I say there is 0% chance she had THC in her system, I mean there is a 0% chance. If you say not to worry about it as long as she can get the SSRI/Mood stabilizer combo without problem then we believe you, but we are concerned about the psychiatrists unwillingness to provide her with a copy of the results and that they might just try to drop her as a client altogether resulting in a gap in her access to medications that allow her to function. Without her medications she is highly likely to completely melt down and become a non functional mess. It seems the best path forward for her is to just find another doctor asap. Thanks for the info. We will take it to heart.
Hate to have to tell you this, but there is totally a chance that thc would still be in her system. That’s kind of the whole point of why people hate drug tests/think they’re unfair. Thc stays in your system a lot longer than any other drug. It varies from person to person based on body chemistry, weight, regularity of use, etc… if the cbd she was taking had thc in it(also incredibly possible btw) and she was taking it regularly, like a medicine, then yes she could fail a drug test 2 months later. 2 months is on the longer side for thc to clear your system, but it is by no means impossible.
She hasn't taken cbd in over two months. Even if it had small quantities of THC in it, there is no way it would show up in a urinalysis for two months after considering your average joe can smoke a joint and clear a drug test in as little as two weeks. Some baby aspirin levels of THC that MIGHT have been in her CBD products stuck around for 2 months though? Nah. I dont buy it.
I don't think there is any reason to be concerned. But if you're really worried just get a second test/opinion.
I dont think the third party colluded at all, I think the psychiatrists office was sent a negative test back and they called my girlfriend and claimed it had come back positive anyway. No conspiracy required, and a pretty simple solution.