Might sound like a stupid question but why should I no longer have contact with this person? While it is absolutely unpleasant for me to think about today's events and him, I am curious and am also slightly worried I misunderstood something.
The reason you should have no further contact with this person is because he has expressed that he has feelings for you that are inappropriate and dangerous. Him calling you 50 times suggests his feelings are driving him to act in an unreasonable way. At his age he knows that acting on romantic feelings for a 15yo by relentlessly calling and making contact and suggesting 'intimacy' is predatory behavior.
You worry that "I'm being cruel to a lonely person who was finally shown some affection." You are sweet to show concern for him, and your empathy is admirable... But I hope you also realize that his words/actions are not normal / healthy / acceptable, and further contact with him will only encourage him. He is not showing 'affection', he is displaying hebephilic behavor.
I understand that but there is also a part of me that actually wants him to get prosecuted. He broke my trust, turned out to be not a good person and might harass other people that get in contact with him. I don't know...
Yeah, that's true. Nothing remotely similar to this has happened to me before and I had little idea how to act at that point.
You are getting downvoted for that question. I will accept that your question comes from your age and relative inexperience. Most of the folks who post here are older and a bit more worldly wise, and we tend to forget that we were all young and inexperienced back in the day...
I did realize his actions were very far from normal from the very beginning but I was confused about whether I should try to take the matter into my own hands since I'm really not sure the organisation is going to do something. After reading all of this and other comments, this does sound like an incredibly stupid idea that I thought about in a moment of frustration. I'm taking too much of this onto myself and this is not a superhero movie.
I am not a lawyer. You are 15 years old. This person is 68 is years old and has expressed his romantic interest in you. What are you hoping to get out of continued contact with him? You do not have to light yourself on fire to keep other people warm. Do not put yourself in potentially unsafe situations because you feel bad for someone.
It wouldn't even matter if you were his age; it's still not okay to harass you for companionship after you've said no to him. The combination of him pressuring you, saying he's in love with you and that your age doesn't matter is a clear indication that he's a predator. You have nothing to feel bad about and you're not overreacting. His loneliness doesn't excuse his behaviour. Block his number from your phone and never call him again. If he finds another way to contact you, report him to the police.
Yes. It might not be 100% clear since English isn't my first language but basically the volunteering opportunity was me calling to a lonely/sick etc. person from my personal number and talking with them.
There are other underage volunteers as well. This is a very rare instance as most clients are thoroughly double checked before being connected with volunteers. It's usually very chill and nice and allows people to make new friends and stuff like that but something went wrong this time.