You want to request a "reasonable accommodation" under the ADA. From what you've said (large corporate landlord, not owner occupied, etc) the ADA applies.
Your doctor's note is good enough. Reiterate to the landlord (preferably in writing) that you are making a request for a reasonable accommodation under the ADA, and you are providing a doctor's note (as well as a translation to English for their benefit).
If they want to reject your request you'll have a paper trail, at which point you can (free) or get a lawyer.
I really hope it doesn't come to a legal dispute. I don't think that's something we have the energy to do. My gf's is not confident in her English and is generally very shy and I live 900 miles away now and don't feel comfortable helping her through a case with no prior experience. I know that's the purpose of a lawyer but my gf would not be able to go through that.
First step: get the doctors note. I'll post an update when I have more information. Thank you so much for your time!
We'll call again and see if they can refer us to someone. I want to make sure her insurance will cover it as well so it won't cost her a fortune. She's a relatively poor college student as can be expected.
Is this a dorm living type situation owned by a university or employer, or privately owned housing? That might make a difference(I'm not sure, but adding a "stranger roommate" in my area is more typical of dorm life vs private apartments, and they do have different rules some places).
Are the apartments listed as no pets(if so that could move into ESA/FHA/HUD territory)? Did gf move in knowing pets are allowed(they likely would say that given their pets allowed status she should have known that this was a possibility)?
If she's already affected by second hand dander; Im sure your girlfriends quality of life is going to be greatly affected by a cat in her living quarters.
I will call back and ask for a referral and confirm with them that her insurance covers it to make sure she won't be financially crushed from medical expense. She's a no-income college student.
It's a privately owned complex near the campus that people rent at. There are a ton of 1, 2 bedroom and 4 bedroom units. It is a "pet friendly" apartment complex, meaning dogs and cats are allowed, but it was never brought to her attention she would be forced to live with someone who owns a cat.
This is a great last resort effort, but I feel that the landlord might not respect that. I will definitely consider trying this if the other recommendations don't work out.
I would ask a doctor to write a note about quality of life, in addition to severity, and then Id have a second note from your girlfriend about cost of allergy medications. (Estimated). Which is a unplanned expense that she should not have to take up if she was provided a safe/clean living space as per whatever tenants laws you have in your area.
We called urgent care and asked if they could confirm her paperwork and they hung up on us. I have to figure out if her insurance will cover a hospital visit next.
Thank you for your input. I do not think she will qualify as "seriously allergic," under American standards and in the end she might just have to suck it up. Its a terrible way to start off meeting your roommate too I'll add. She just signed the lease for an entire year too.
That's definitely what I'm afraid of being the case. I do want to say I feel she was taken advantage of here due to her lack of familiarity with English because she wasn't informed prior and only heard about a cat allergy form after her roommate was given the go ahead to move into her apartment. She did not even know her new roommates name or contact info.