If you have not already received a copy of the trust, you should retain the services of a trust attorney who can ask the trustee for a copy of the trust on your behalf. It is possible that the trust might allow you to receive payments for your education and there will be other reasons listed in it that will show the conditions under which you would be allowed to receive payments.
Yes you can get the money from an IRA you inherit. You'll have to jump through a few hoops, but do it now. I'm dealing with the fallout of waiting. My dad left an IRA to my and my siblings. I didn't need the money right away, and left it in the account. My siblings all cashed out their portion right away\\ I didn't realized that I had to get my share out within 5 years of my dad's passing, and now the (very big name, multinational) company holding it has my money and I have tried several times to get it, each time being told my paperwork is out of date, or I have to prove my dad died all over again. It's been a huge pain. Plus now that I've passed the 5 year mark, there are tax consequences I wouldn't have had to pay if I'd cashed out sooner.
\\ What we each had to do was open a beneficiary IRA account in our own names with the company, and roll the money into that. My siblings all did that, then immediately closed their IRAs. I left the money in my dad's name.
This is good advice too. The purpose of a trustee (your uncle) is to carry out the wishes of, as stated in his will, the decedent (your father). Your fathers will and terms of the trust almost certainly set some sort of guidelines as to how your uncle, as trustee, is supposed to handle disbursements to you as beneficiary. If you ever felt that the trustee wasn’t paying out trust income or even the trust’s corpus in certain situations as you feel the trustee should, you need to have the will and the trust instrument to figure out whether your concerns are justified.
This seems like good advice and an enhanced look into the consequences of not doing what I was suggesting — looking into the specific terms governing your IRA in your jurisdiction.