3-4 months is honestly fast. 6 months to a year is pretty standard, and that's without considering backlogs for COVID and such.
We're most likely going to end up selling everything. Would be nice to open the business again but may be too much to handle.
What would happen is the estate would sell the property and get the money for it. The estate would hold the money until everything is settled, then gives the money to you and your siblings like any other money the estate has.
The executor of the estate (sounds like it's the lawyer) can run the business just like any other owner can. That includes hiring staff to run it.
But if you're concerned about the property, the estate can deal with it before transferring it to the heirs. If you or one of your siblings wants to live there, the estate can rent it to them at fair market value. If you want to keep the property as a rental, the estate can rent it out on the market. And if you and your siblings want to sell it, the estate can do that too. Either way, the estate gets the proceeds from the rental or sale, and those are distributed to the heirs once everything is settled. Of course, the estate should also keep insurance on the property and maintain it.
It is unsurprising that probate of an intestate estate would take six months. Certainly you can talk to the lawyer about if that could be accelerated but likely not.
If you have questions about the progress of the estate, you have the right to get an accounting of the estate funds from the lawyer.
The "estate" is a legal entity, like a company, that automatically pops into existence when someone dies. So when Joe Smith dies, all his property (and debts) then belong to "the estate of Joe Smith." The person who runs the estate is called the "executor." Just like a company, the estate can buy, sell, and maintain property, as directed by the executor.
In my case, with the lawyer being the executor I'm assuming, wouldn't he only be allowed to do things we, the children, give permission for?
I'm failing to fully understand who currently has control over what the estate can do right now while it's being transferred since there was no will or instructions.
The executor of an estate has a duty (called a "fiduciary duty") to act in the best interest of the heirs, that is, you and your siblings. He doesn't have to get permission for every little thing, but should respect you and your siblings' general instructions.
For example: Say you and your siblings tell the executor you want the property maintained until the estate is settled. The executor can pay the electric bill and hire a landscaper to mow the lawn without needing your permission for every check.
So if the lawyer wanted to be a dick he could technically not listen to anything we say and just flat out do what he/she wants?
Really, you and your siblings should sit down with the lawyer and have a conversation about what you ultimately want to happen to the estate assets, and what steps need to be taken to resolve everything. If you find you can't get on the same page as the lawyer, you can have him replaced as executor. This would involve hiring another lawyer and petitioning the court to do so. You don't have to have a lawyer as executor either; you or one of your siblings could be executor and just use the lawyer for legal advice. (This would mean more work for you but lower legal fees.).
Sorry for your loss. Half a year is not too surprising, especially since your father had a business. A complication of estates is that all debts and taxes have to be paid before any property can be transferred to heirs. Depending on how it's incorporated, the business could easily impact the estate's taxes or debts.