I'm surprised to hear you say that "the Bolshevik leadership of 1917 knew the limits of a planned economy", given that in 1921, when introducing the , Lenin himself described it as an "abrupt change" and said the following:
It's perhaps too specific to ask if Lenin thought central planning was flawed. You see, at the time of the Revolution in 1917, not a single revolutionary leader believed Communism could work if isolated within a single country. That idea ('Socialism in one Country') was defined much later in 1924 by Stalin and Bukharin.
Lenin, Trotsky, etc, intended for the Russian Revolution to be the spark which ignited a revolutionary fire across Europe and the Americas. They understood, like Marx, that the capitalist system is highly innovative and productive; just that it also can produce horrendous inequality and suffering. As such, they didn't think a state managed economy could compete over the long term.
It then shouldn't be much of a surprise that Lenin proposed the NEP in 1921, after the German Revolution was crushed in 1919, and hope of revolution elsewhere died. This left the question of how the revolutionary state could catch up. Lenin saw the only remaining possibility as the utilisation of capitalism in the context of state control of industry - this time for profit. And he imagined this as a transition which would last a few decades.
According to John Reed's 1919 eyewitness account of the Revolution: 'Ten Days Which Shook the World', in 1918 Trotsky said:
"Either the Russian Revolution will create a revolutionary movement in Europe, or the European powers will crush the Russian Revolution.".
Of course, Stalin had other ideas. The question of why is somewhat complicated, but the gist is that he, like Trotsky, was concerned that the revolutionary state would fail if it didn't catch up fast enough. In 1931 he said:
"We are fifty or a hundred years behind the advanced countries. We must make good this distance in ten years. Either we do it, or they will crush us.".