If the conditions she's relying on weren't made obvious before you agreed to the service and to pay a deposit, then your tattoo artist has no real justification for withholding the deposit. "Non-refundable" generally has to do with clients backing out, not with the service provider backing out.
I'm curious - If they offered to cover up the old tattoo, but OP wanted them to work around it, would that potentially be considered the OP backing out?
If the artist wasn't abundantly clear that they would not work around other tattoos as a general rule then I don't think they can justify keeping the deposit. OP wouldn't have paid the deposit to attempt to secure a date if they had known this ahead of time. Also usually this kind of discussion regarding what a tattoo artist will or won't do and their approx pricing would be handled prior to paying the deposit.
Also the pricing they're quoting OP sounds insanely high and with the way it seems this artist is operating they could be scamming everyone contacting them. So they get the deposit ahead of time then could quote someone $20k for a tattoo and when the client backs out of the deal because the pricing is not as expected they keep the $1k deposit because that's now the client backing out.
Yeah, the part I find highly irregular is the demanding the deposit before the consult. I've only ever gotten two tattoos (well, technically one tattoo that I then expanded on) and I've never pre-paid before discussing the idea with the artist. The original tattoo was only an hour and cost me somewhere around $100 and they just got the apprentice to do it (it was a really simple tattoo), so I didn't even need a deposit. But the expansion (that I just finished less than a year ago) was about $100 deposit, and he just hung onto that until the last session which he then just took it off my last payment (about 6 sessions maybe?). Enough to make sure that I didn't skip on the appointment, but nothing ludicrous.
This is not legal advice, but it is VERY common for tattoo artist to not want to perform work on or around someone else's art. 13k sounds like an insane amount for a tattoo as well unless we are talking a full back from the best of the best in the entire country.