I do remember a page in the contract specifically listing these repairs and that we needed them completed by a professional, but I don't have it in front of me so I'll have to look through it when I get home. I wish I'd have been firmer on checking everything on the walk through. It was hard enough to secure a house in this market, I didn't want to alienate the sellers. Now I regret it.
Lesson learned big time. I'll have to see what the realtor put in the contract. I told her specifically I didn't want him to do it and she said she'd make sure a professional did it, but honestly I don't trust her that much either at this point.
Unless there's fraud involved, your chance to addess the issue is generally before you close. Next time take the cash.
Language will matter here. Did it say 'professional' or a clearer statement like 'work shall be completed by a licensed, bonded and insured contractor and a lien release must be provided to buyer before closing'?
And that's why I'm worried, that was very much my realtors attitude the whole time; "you don't want to lose this house, have to play nice with the sellers".
Contact your realtor. This was partly their responsibility. You, as buyer, should not have closed before you verified the repairs were made properly. "Alienate the sellers"??? That does not mean kiss their ass and let things slide till after closing. Now you have very little leverage.
Thank you very much for the reply. I'm 100% of the mind that I want my own team to handle repairs and I'm going to personally supervise this time. I can tell from all of the other repairs to the home that the previous owner was sloppy and cheap. There are so many repairs I wish he hadn't made because taking them down would cost more than it's worth but if he had left well enough alone I could have repaired things the correct way. All in all a terrific learning experience, albeit frustrating as heck.
Will do, I have texts from her stating the work was completed but I'm not sure if she ever got receipts. This was my first time buying a house and next time I'll require them prior to closing.