Is it possible? Sure. Is it likely? No. The job market in the humanities is about as bad as can be imagined. Any tenure-track opening will have hundreds, if not thousands of applications. And more often than not, the position is filled before it's posted.
Many PhDs can find work as an adjunct, but that's barely minimum wage. Pay varies by school and discipline, but where I teach, it's about 3500 per class. Adjuncts are usually restricted to a 3/3 load, so if you're lucky, you'll teach 6 classes per year and make $20,000. And this will almost certainly be without benefits. NB: there are some schools that pay adjuncts more and provide benefits, but this is hardly the norm.
This quite old, but worth a read, as much of it holds true today: (It's paywalled, so if you don't have access, the argument is basically that unless you have some other means of financial support (spouse, trust fund, lottery winnings, etc.) it's a bad idea to go to grad school in the humanities.).
RE Community Colleges, yes, on paper, most will hire you with an MA. Reality is that they get the same hundreds to thousands of applications for every position, most who hold a PhD. Unless the person is somehow stellar, they can't compete with the PhD holders.
If you don't want to do research as an integral part of your job, teaching at the university level is not for you. University history professors (like other professors at research universities) are expected to maintain an active research agenda and publish in their fields in addition to their teaching responsibilities. Research is generally less important at community colleges and some smaller colleges that are more teaching-oriented, but again, those jobs are just as hard to come by as the jobs at research universities are because there aren't very many jobs and there are a lot of people that want them.
So if what i want to do is more teaching based, (research is cool but i dont want to research full time) i should just go the highschool history teacher route? What worries me is how little highschool teachers are paid and how controlled the curriculum is/ will be. Idk i guess im just lost.
Someone asked a similar question last week and . The tl;dr version is that no, this is not a realistic career plan. The traditional academic career path of getting a Ph.D. and becoming a tenured professor simply does not exist anymore. As others have noted in this thread, every teaching job (even an awful adjunct job at a community college) gets hundreds of applicants because there are way more history Ph.D.s than there are jobs. If you have a passion for teaching, you should focus on the secondary school level, where there are actual jobs and you won't waste several years getting a Ph.D. that won't do anything for your career.
I can't really speak to the day-to-day reality of secondary school teaching because I haven't worked at that level. I assume the pay and things like that will vary from location to location, so you would want to do some research on that and learn what the situation is like wherever you live. Sorry to not be more help in that respect.
I would love to tell you otherwise, but I have to mirror other comments here. Academic positions within the humanities are extremely scarce and notoriously difficult to get. I'm mostly experienced with the situation in Western Europe so I'm not entirely sure how it translates to other continents, but acquiring a PhD position is already a challenge and acquiring a position that relates to the subject matter that actually interests you is exponentially more difficult. You have to be absolutely on top of your game, be specialized in a subject that's trending and get lucky. I only got a few chances due to the head of my department being a very unruly man who was in love with historiography.
I can tell you from experience, however, that getting a college-level teaching job as a history Ph.D. is nearly impossible right now, because the job market is very limited in size and is therefore hypercompetitive. There are just way too many people searching for the number of jobs that are available. I cannot recommend strongly enough that you do not go down that route. It's just not a viable career path in 2021.
My high-school teacher was a great inspiration to me. While teaching, he wrote several conceptual and philosophical books on historiography. He also weaved his findings into his teachings, which is part of what made him an amazing teacher. It's not a coincidence that five students in my class went on to study history at a university, haha. So maybe that's an approach to consider? There may also be organizations near you that provide basic history courses for adults. That's another possibility. Still, research is an essential part of being a historian on nearly every level.
The most common road towards a PhD and teaching position - at least from my personal experience - is to excel as a student at a university, assist the professor and wait until an opportunity arises. That's not a guaranteed career path though, so I would only advise that route if you are truly passionate about researching. I would even go as far as to say that in most people who are pursuing a PhD in social sciences are largely motivated by personal growth and not mostly not too concerned with the potential career opportunities that may come with it. I honestly think that some high school teachers have quite a bit of room to adapt the curriculum to their own sensibilities. Really depends on the school and country I suppose.