Can you? Sure. You technically solicited someone for sexual favors in exchange for money. If you had the misfortune of being in a place that was under surveillance or had cameras, you could certainly be on the receiving end of blackmail or criminal charges.
Also this place is known to do this stuff - wouldn’t it be against their interest to report anything?
In cases involving sex work, they will usually go after the operators along with any clients who happen to be present at the time. Yes, clients do sometimes get charged after the fact.
Again, just to be crystal clear, I think your odds of this are probably zero. There's no point worrying about it unless something actually happens, in which case you should contact a criminal defense lawyer.
Honestly, you're going way off the rails here. If you're contacted by the police, you should contact a criminal defense attorney. Otherwise, anything else is just pure speculation.
Fair enough. In cases where there are video surveillance, why would the police be going after the clients? Shouldn’t they be going after the owners who run the place?
In theory, your face is on video and maybe so is the license plate of the car you drove there. Or you're on video using the subway system to get there.
Maybe the masseuse is willing to make a report, and testify, and the massage parlor has excellent cameras to identify you and your vehicle, and your local police vice unit will assign a detective to find you.
Occasionally illicit businesses are placed under surveillance by law enforcement agencies. This can and occasionally does include interior audio / video surveillance. The simple solution is, of course, to avoid breaking the law.
In general, if you didn't offer money to an undercover police officer, and get arrested on the spot, you aren't going to get charged with soliciting prostitution.
You might be remembering the notorious massage parlor scandal that caught up Robert Kraft, owner of the New England Patriots, in Florida. Charges against Kraft and all the other patrons were dropped because the video cameras placed by police in a "sneak and peek" operation were ruled to have been part of an illegal search.
I can tell you that in my jdx, the only way we pursue prostitution clients is in industrial-scale undercover operations where we take over a website or brothel (usually a massage parlor) and staff it entirely with undercover police. We spend a whole day welcoming johns, having them offer money for sex, then hustling them out the back door to be booked, charged, and released with no bail required. All of them are offered a plea deal for probation.