Definitely unreasonable to just steal your license. Indeed you should have called police, itheir actions were unreasonable in your case, but it's standard procedure for both security and police. Since you didn't do this immediately I'd say give the bar a call during daylight hours and explain the situation. Most bars keep IDs even if they think they're fake. You may find they're like "Yeah that was dumb of our staff. Sorry, come get it." But if they won't budge call the non emergency number for that city's police and ask that they escort you to the bar to retrieve your property. People with fake IDs typically won't go to that effort and again it's kinda standard to have to do that.
It’s actually not unreasonable as state statute allows for it, and most Certified Alcohol Sellers Training (CAST) classes teach this practice in South Dakota.
Well I meant more it was unreasonable if all they did was walk up to a bouncer, showed them their ID and asked for entry to find their friends. You don't just take someone's ID and tell em to get lost that wouldn't make sense.
What they should have done was barred you from coming in and allowed you to stand out front and call your friend's. It's an old trick to pretend to be DD so you can gain entry. For places that check ID at the door it means the barstaff probably aren't checking themselves. Someone trying to exploit that may say they're looking for their friends.
Forgot to specify in the original post, I literally walked through the front door and there was no bouncer as I was going around inside I was approached.
Some jurisdictions do have laws that explicitly permit this behavior, with the proviso that they turn the ID over to the cops before a certain deadline (like 72 hours).
I couldn't find anything specifically for SD, but even if it's not explicitly permitted, the bouncer is either brand spankin' new or has probably already had positive interactions with the police regarding this matter. If it was explicitly illegal, the police would have unkind things to say to the bar for having such a policy sooner or later.
The bar doesn't actually have a way of validating IDs. The police do. Rather than calling the cops every time there's a questionable ID, they put the onus on the person with the potentially fake ID.
The premise is this: People bring in fake IDs. Bouncer/Bar yoinks them and says "call the cops if you want it back." If the fake ID is actually real, the person calls the cops and gets their ID back. If the fake ID is actually fake, the the person will not call the cops and the fake ID will remain confiscated.
So it sounds an awful lot like your intent was for legally permissible purposes. The bouncer was certainly within their right to prohibit your entry but even if you did enter, you would probably not in violation of the law (jurisdictions and interpretations may vary, of course).
The rest of underage stuff is about actually serving/selling/being served alcohol, so not applicable to this situation.
You may, however, wish to bring your parents into this (even though you're an adult) while you recover the ID (with or without police assistance) simply to make things go smoother. Not doing anything wrong has never been a reason to not hassle someone who people think are doing something they shouldn't be doing and having your parents there might help.
Unfortunately parents live too far away, I just don’t want to face any legal troubles by telling a non emergency 911 operator what happened and then I have an officer show up fining me or putting me in cuffs.
Some states (colorado kept coming up, but I assume there are others) explicitly give bars the authority to take IDs they think are false, but requires them to turn them into the police in no more than 72 hours. The person they take the ID from can, of course, be the one who calls the cops to validate the ID on the spot, but the bar is not required to do so.
CAST Certification (Certified Alcohol Seller Training) trains employees to confiscate the IDs of underage individuals and false IDs, state law in South Dakota also calls for this as well.
Most employers for bars and places that sell alcoholic beverages in or around major towns enroll their employees in CAST training.
Don’t know why you got down voted to hell, but this is what law enforcement in the area teaches in their CAST certification (alcohol seller training) classes. But OP should not just pay for a new ID, they should retrieve it.
Ah I see. Yeah I would have not even handed them my ID at that point but as you said you didn't know they'd do that. Hindsight is 20/20 though. I hope mgy advice helped, at least. Good luck!
Your intent was not to linger without purpose. Your intent was to get in, find your friends, get out.
That seems like paranoia talking, from my experience. You can try your luck on your own getting it back, but my guess is that they won’t without a cop there.
Also to OP: just call local law enforcement non-emergency number and have an officer meet with you to retrieve your ID.