...uhmmm, it kinda is. If Bill is so valuable, pay him the overtime, or make him salaried non-exempt, assuming his duties would allow him to qualify.
You can try to adjust Bill's payrate(s) so that you can get 60 hours out of him for the price of 40, but I too would be surprised if you get Bill to agree to that. Even if so, there are additional laws you would have to be in accordance with when it comes to which rate you have to use to calculate his time and a half.
I won't say you're a bad person, but you're trying to skirt the law to benefit yourself and your company. Just because you think you might get Bill on board with it, that doesn't necessarily make it ethical or legal. A lot of people would probably work for less than minimum wage too.
The problem is that I don’t have that power. We are run by a group of people in a completely different building who have no idea what the individual issues are in our building. There is no justification for me paying Bill time in a half to work as a “waiter” when he is already earning $5 per hour more than waiters anywhere else. They think that I can just hire someone else and I really can’t. Our area is very hard to wait for and so I only want experienced waiters and I pay them that way. But the only solution for Bill is to work 40hrs a week and $20 per hour from us, and then 20hrs a week at $15 per hour somewhere else; or I can find a way for him to earn $20 per hour for 60 hrs a week with us. I can’t get him OT and I can’t get him on salary. Out office just won’t allow it.
If your hands are tied like you say when it comes to hiring, overtime, or classifying Bill as an employee, then that's unfortunate, but that doesn't justify exploiting people below you.
But in the real world, you have to recognize that the methods of skirting things like overtime laws have been thought of and made illegal already.
For the record, if it wasn’t clear I am not trying to have this kid work 60 hours and stop paying him after 40. He has a second job that pays him $15 per hour. He wants to work those hours with us at the pay rate he earns with us ($20) but I can’t because of my company’s overtime rules.