Hi, sorry about your dad. You mention a lease ... how long does it run through? How old are you? Generally speaking (not an attorney, not familiar with Ohio tenancy laws), the estate would be bound to the lease for its term. But most landlords who aren't dicks will work with the family.
If you have been living with your father all this time, you have established tenancy, even if you're not on the lease. This gives you rights as well. So most likely they cannot just say you have to vacate by October 31. Have you spoken with the landlord? Do you have a plan in place and an established timeline for moving out? Your best bet is to try to work out an arrangement with the landlord that works for both of you.
It’s a large apartment company. The manager for our specific apartments said the place was only paid through this month. Unfortunately, I have no idea where the paperwork is. She’s been very difficult and keeps saying this is all “policy.”.
Take a look through your father's paperwork and see if you can find the lease. It's uncommon, but not impossible, to have month-to-month leases with a large apartment company. If you can't find the lease, ask the management company for a copy. If it is a month-to-month lease, the company has to give you 30 days notice.
Finally, if you need but can't afford legal assistance, there are usually legal aid clinics where help is available for free. Good luck.
Are you able to pay for November? If you are, perhaps you might mention that and see if you can work out an arrangement.
Thank you. I wish he had told me how the lease was handled. I think he thought they’d just transfer the apartment to me, but they don’t seem willing to do that. Plus, I was his caregiver in the last year, so I now have no job (though I will get life insurance), and my ex-husband wrecked my credit, so I couldn’t take it on if I wanted to. I might have to consult with someone legally if I can’t get all of this together.
I would strongly consider finding legal assistance. Here is one such organization I found by searching on the internet:
Hi, that is a lot to handle. Just keep at it a little at a time. There is help available. The trick is finding the resources you need--housing assistance, legal help, mental health counseling, etc. Take care of yourself. It's hard but you can do it.
Fortunately, I do have a place to move into, thanks to a friend. And I have a therapist, so that’s good. It’s just hard to grieve and go through the apartment, making big decisions.