Great question! We’re currently experiencing a resurgence of 1990s fashion, and both the trend of recycling fashion and the specificity down to the decade is not a new phenomenon.
To answer your main question, you absolutely could differentiate a stylish person from the 1860s compared to the 1870s. (A brief caveat - my knowledge is exclusively regarding Western European and American clothing, and cannot speak to whether this holds true for other cultures and regions.).
All in all, really fascinating stuff! It goes to show that we’ve cared about how we look and keeping up with the latest trends for centuries.
For women’s fashion, the 1870s saw a transition to low, square necklines, tighter sleeves, an elongated waistline, and long trains of fabric in the skirt that would be swooped and bunched up. Also lots of ruffles! Men’s coats were buttoned higher on the chest, and the tips of collar corners were folded over.
Women’s fashion in the 1860s was marked by high necklines, wide sleeves, and full skirts at the first half of the decade (the 1850s was all about huge bell-shaped skirts), with a transition to a flatter front and more volume in the back of the skirt in the second half of the decade. Men’s fashion featured single breasted jackets and high starched collars.
The pace of change in fashions is surprisingly rapid and parallels our modern experience - last decade skinny jeans were fashionable, and now they’re falling out of favor. A common theme is the reversal of silhouettes - high necklines to low, wide sleeves to tight, full skirts to narrow. Women’s fashion changed more noticeably than men’s fashion, but there were still distinctions in men’s fashion from decade to decade that would mark one as fashionable or not.
One reason for this pace of fashion change even in the 1800s was the circulation of fashion plates or engravings being produced in Paris, which began in the late 1700s. Seamstresses across Europe would copy these designs, resulting in a fairly cohesive and widespread fashion environment that changed rapidly. Another factor is the emergence of a middle class, which allowed for more accessibility to fashion than in previous centuries (the details of this social phenomenon are better left answered by someone with a more suitable area of expertise). However, even when there was a more stark split between nobility and commoners - say, in the 1600s - fashion still changed at a surprisingly fast pace. There were more regional variations (Flemish fashion and Italian fashion from the 1650s have noticeable differences), but the difference between 1650s and 1660s is still discernible. Janet Arnold’s Patterns of Fashion is a great source for exploring historical patterns and how they changed over time, going back to 1600. Much of what we know about fashion from the Renaissance comes from portraiture, typically of nobility, which allows us to see the changes over the decades. The changes in silhouette were more subtle during this time, but still noticeable. For example, women’s 1650s fashion featured low, off the shoulder necklines with full sleeves and a very long, pointed waistline; women’s 1660s fashion had a similar neck and waistline, but the sleeve lenh shortened and got a little narrower. The 1670s added more lace, embellishments, richer fabrics, and overskirts. In the 1680s, necklines stayed low but began to have a square or v shape, the long pointed waistlines reached ridiculous lenhs, and the skirts took on an almost bustle-like silhouette. The overall look was very linear and streamlined. Contrast this with 1630s fashion, which was very wide, voluminous, and often with a waistline so high it sat directly under the breasts.
The concept of fashion in general dates to approximately the mid-1300s, with a change in tailoring methods and closures allowing for a closer fit. Fashions during this time changed less rapidly, but are still discernible in half-century increments.
Hope I'm doing this right: SO, I majored in Fashion design and we intensively studied the history and historical timelines of strictly fashion and clothing. So your short answer is : yes, it is quite possible and very common to be able to identify time period based on clothing and has evolved quickly over all eras, ours is just the fastest due to internet and means of production.
Long answer with explanation is: there's always been some form of documentation since first recorded civilization on types of clothing, if there was no form of writing or art to depict, some fibers and sometimes even furs, pelts and skins have been well enough preserved to understand what the clothing of that time period was like. Part of what can help pinpoint the time is carbon dating if they are unsure (think nomad and Neanderthal eras). Basically (if I'm remembering this part right) the amount of carbon goes up as time passes so higher the carbon levels = longer time from the present. So that's one way to date clothing if human remains or Graves are found with an unsure time Era and have fibers or other cell data they can extract.