In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
It’s one thing to grant an exclusive interview to Maggie Haberman, but it seems to me like releasing criminal evidence exclusively to an organization explicitly incriminated in the actions is quite another.
Will also pass confidential info about the Capitols security to future Coup attempters. This is one of the main reasons that the Capitol police do not want it out there for everyone to comb through.
Can anyone with a legal background weigh in on this? Can the government deliberately and selectively release information to a single media outlet that it does not release to others? That seems like it should cause FOIA issues, because the information is obviously no longer considered restricted.
He could cut out all the violence, show hundreds, or even thousands of hours of MAGA cosplayers standing around, spitting tobacco juice and cleaning their fingernails with pen caps.
But that does no undo any of the stuff we all saw live and in the January Sixth Commission hearings. It's like showing home movies of Derek Chauvin at his kid's Little League game, yawning and scrolling on his phone. Does that say anything at all about the 8 minutes and 46 seconds he spent on George Floyd's neck? How are they going to try to spin this? The only shit worth viewing is the footage of the insurrection.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I think people are overlooking one major issue here. The Capitol police do not want all of this footage out there because it will reveal sensitive security secrets. Location of cameras, etc. Tucker is definitely going to pass this along to future Insurrectionists.
What will they do next- show footage of Putin sleeping to prove that because he was asleep he couldn't have possibly invaded Ukraine?