NAL but ask them to pay you for it. It worked for that guy who briefly bought the Google domain name. If they’re a multi billion dollar company they won’t mind paying out a few thousand for a username.
I guess that could be summarized as any business deal but I'd rather keep the username and not get any money from it, but I also rather not get sued haha.
I considered that, and maybe I am stretching - I'm not a lawyer - but I thought THIS might be the illegal thing? aka extortion?
It’s not a force or threat to keep something that’s already yours that somebody else wants lol. That’s how selling anything works. Someone asks for something, you ask them to exchange money for it.
You say they reached out "asking you", as in they were polite? If so at this point they'd probably rather not pursue this in a negative light. Be polite back, explain your interests aren't intended to be in correlation with their products. Ask if they'd compensate you for relinquishing the rights to use it.
I'd really not want to give up the username for any amount, but I figured that would be my plan B/C.
Is transferring accounts to other people or entities permitted by the terms of service of the platform you are on? You might not be allowed to give the account away.
Some platforms like Twitter let you just change your username, while keeping the account. I suppose you could work out a deal with the company where you change your username away from their name, although that still wouldn't 100% guarantee that they get it for their account; someone else could snap it up when it becomes unused.
There doesn't exist any clause for transfering accounts or usernames at all in the Terms, but that really isn't the issue at hand. I can change my username to anything I want, but I want the username I already have. It's a big platform so I can see why they'd want their brand represented on the platform, but I got there first and am in no way saying I'm affiliated with them.
I'm wondering if purely on a legal front, because they have a trademark on that name, that they can get my username, regardless of the platform just intervening and giving them my username against my will.