Pope Urban I, was actually born ‘Urbanus’ and became Pope in the year 222. The name ‘Urban’ is very simply the Anglicised version of his name.
It only became common for an elected Pope to take on a new name in the 1300’s, so there was a lenhy period of over 1000 years where Popes are believed to have simply used their birth names. The first known Pope to change his name was John II in 533, who was born Mercurious. He considered that using his birth name could cause issues because his name had Pagan roots (in the Roman god Mercury). By changing his name, he appears to have set a precedent for later popes, although it didn’t become commonplace until much later on. There is also a not-so-subtle nod to the Bible - Saint Peter was given that name by Jesus, his actual name was Simeon!
You may also be interested to learn that Urban is far from the most popular Papal name. John is the most popular, followed by Gregory and Benedict. Also, no accepted Pope (yes, there have been disputes as to who is the Pope over the centuries) has used the name Peter because the Catholic Church considers Peter to be both a Saint and the first Pope, so the name appears to be “off limits” out of reverence to him, although a number of Popes were actually born Peter It’s obviously not a problem because tradition allows them to change it.
So, is it just Saint Peter who has a name so famous that you aren’t allowed to use it as a Pope? Or is there some sort of mechanism by which the Catholic Church can basically “retire” a name, like how sports teams may “retire” a jersey number?
I just wanted to add that the choice of Urban II's name was probably for political reasons. The previous pope was Victor III but he only ruled for about a year; Urban II’s real predecessor was Gregory VII, who was big on reforming the church and was the intractable opponent of the Holy Roman Emperor. Urban II ended up being a strong reformer pope and an enemy of the emperor as well, but in 1088 he probably didn’t want to reignite the struggle by calling himself Gregory VIII.
Urban III was elected on November 25, 1185, which was the 90th anniversary of the Council of Clermont where Urban II launched the First Crusade. Maybe that’s just a coincidence though...but Urban III certainly continued the struggle with the Empire so maybe he felt connected to Urban II. Urban IV was Patriarch of Jerusalem when he was elected, so maybe he was emphasizing that connection. Urban IV was from Troyes and Urban II was from Chatillon-sur-Marne, which were both in the County of Champagne, so they were also connected that way.
So, why so many Urbans? Well, it is believed that a Pope selects their Papal name carefully in order to signal to the community what policies they will adopt and the direction in which they will seek to take the church. Selecting the name of a previous Pope signals that they may emulate one of the previous Popes using that name. Not a lot is known about Urban I, but the little we do know indicates that he valued generosity toward the poor.
So why Urban? It might be because Gregory VII died on May 25, which is the feast day of Urban I (he died on May 23, 230, but was buried on May 25, so that day was celebrated as his feast day). This could have been Odo’s way of honouring Gregory without actually taking the name.
As for the other Urbans, I don't know...now I also wonder why there were no more Urbans after Urban VIII?
Now I wonder why no other apostle's name became popular but Paul. I can understand why Judas wasn't popular or why John was popular (not only John the apostle had this name but so did John the Baptist, another significant christian figure). However, why Paul and not Matthew or James or Bartholomew?