In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Your source won’t load for me, but I definitely question how many employers “give sick leave” but have their employees in similar situations. While that’s definitely the lowest 10%, I would bet money on it being higher.
Real talk; I’m going to cry like a baby once Sanders passes away. I just want to give the man a hug and thank him so much for fighting for us common folk. He wants corporations to have less, all so we can have more.
I hope they hammer the derailment as an example of cuts to staffing on trains. Those companies are fucking over their employees and safety concerns are on the cutting room floor.
Yeah, that’s what the whole potential railroad strike was about. The rail workers on call basically 24/7, 365 and denied time off to go get medical care, while also not getting any raises.
Most of the US doesn’t have sick leave, at least not the average worker. It’s only a thing in white collar, management jobs.
I counter that, at least in my experience. For instance, I worked a lot of corporate restaurant or retail jobs that offered sick leave… but only if you were full time. Then they would demand full time availability while only offering part time hours and keeping you just under the limit to get access to benefits.
Makes perfect sense that there’s only 60% in the lowest paid workers— again, I still wonder how accurate that is within the context of actual workers conditions. “To be able to earn” could mean a lot, and if the employers say you can earn it once you “earn” full time, they could technically answer that question differently than the reality for many workers.
Also, I’m in Pennsylvania, where our minimum wage is still $7.25. States that are more progressive for employees are going to have different circumstances.
Which is why legislation to prevent companies from doing that shit is so necessary. The only time I ever had access to paid sick time while working for a corporation is during the height of the pandemic when you would get paid to stay home for 2 weeks with a positive test. That’s just my experience, and anecdotes aren’t representative of the whole picture, but it’s not far off from what other people go through.