I'm just a poli-sci guy from Saskatchewan, but maybe I can provide a bit of insight on this one...hopefully this is in-depth enough, and not too blathering. I'll do my best to answer any follow-ups as I can as well.
I'll focus mostly on Saskatchewan, since that tends to be my more informed area..If anyone wants to cover Alberta, then please fill in by all means. I can't really speak to other countries either.
With this history in mind, I'll shift now to the federal sphere of things. In 1957, the CCF dominated Saskatchewan's federal seats holding 10 of the 17 seats the province had. Just a year later, in 1958, the CCF lost all but 1 seat as Diefenbaker's Progressive Conservatives swept the other 16. Part of this, much like the provincial counterpart would follow in 1964, was the collapse of the federal Social Credit Party. Diefenbaker's popularity, and status as a Saskatchewan 'native son', compounded the issue and definitely helped provide a boost for the PCs in the province. And with the collapse of Social Credit, vote splitting that had previously helped the CCF/NDP in the province disappeared and allowed for the PCs to end up with the largest majority in Canadian history (up until Brian Mulroney.).
The short answer is a combination of Western Populism and Right-Wing Vote splitting. While Saskatchewan was flirting with populism on the left, under the CCF, Alberta was doing the same with the right under the Social Credit party. What both of these organizations had in common was that they spoke to generalized concerns and proposed solutions that the 'common man' saw as a good answer. In Saskatchewan, the CCF (forerunner to the NDP) under Douglas was bolstered by the fact that it was a collective of labour-farmers, which in an agrarian province like Saskatchewan, provided a pretty solid base.
Up until Douglas' election, I think it's important to keep some facts about the rural parts of the province in mind. When Douglas came to power in 1944, Saskatchewan was a very different place. The entire province had only ; by contrast, Saskatchewan in . Douglas undertook expansion of surfaced/paved roads, including the completion of the Saskatchewan portion of the Trans-Canada Highway; of which, Saskatchewan was the first province to complete their portion of the nation spanning road.
Prior to 1949, By the end of 1956, Douglas' government had connected about 47% of Saskatchewan's rural farms to electricity, along with other rural communities outside of farms.
The reason to keep things like this in mind is to highlight what a different place the province was when Douglas came to power, and what a different place it was by the time Woodrow Lloyd lost to Ross Thatcher. Thatcher is one of those figures I like to call attention to, as if history tends to repeat itself, he is a perfect parallel for Brad Wall in the future. (But that's another subject.).
The CCF was always quite self conscious about being a movement as well as a party. It was an important part of their self conception. The party had a social basis in organizations external to it, and a clear political program that it was willing to lose elections rather than compromise. The New Party initiative was explicitly aimed at adding 'urban liberals' to their potential voter base. This is usually characterized as being partly because the USSR's example had 'discredited' central planning, the CCF's previous proposal, as well as heightening cold war tensions making socialism unpalatable.
Thatcher campaigned on the EXACTLY the same kind of rhetoric you see today: The 'socialists' have taxes too high, they scare aware 'private business and investment', and they make cost of living too expense for the everyday person. Add to this some fallout from the Doctor's Strike in establishing medicare, and Lloyd not quite having Douglas' personal popularity, and the CCF narrowly lost the 1964 election.
Under Douglas, Saskatchewan changed as listed above, but also this meant that taxes were high to compensate for social spending. And while the Social Credit Party in Alberta experienced electoral success, it never formed government in Saskatchewan...BUT it did enjoy a good degree of support within the province. At least, until the 1964 provincial election; wherein the party imploded and only managed to run 2 candidates in the entire province. Thatcher's Liberals were the beneficiary of Social Credit's collapse as they became the 'go-to' anti-Socialist vote in the province. If you didn't support the CCF, then you were likely voting Liberal.
In what has become a 'trademark' line for pretty much all centre-right and right politicians upon being elected, Thatcher declared that Saskatchewan 'was open for business' once again. (Grant Devine, Brad Wall, Doug Ford, and other centre-right Premiers across Canada have made such declarations upon electoral success since.).