Me and friends and cousins have done them many times, and say stupid shit like “i fucked your mom last night”, or “your dick is small” or other shit like that.
You didn't know it was illegal to call someone, to harass them, and to threaten to commit violent acts against them, or to facilitate such things, as you did? Of course that's illegal. In some places it's also assault (with "battery" being if you go through with it) and in some places it's "making criminal threats" which is illegal. Depends on state law. The other things are "just" harassment but are also illegal, almost everywhere.
> Penal Code 653m PC is a California statute that prohibits phone calls, electronic messages or emails that are obscene, threatening or repeated, when done with the intent to harass or annoy the recipient. The offense is a misdemeanor, punishable by up to 6 months in jail and a fine of up to $1000.00.
I just thought it was illegal to actually carry through with the threat. But yeah, sorry for not knowing much.
You thought it was funny that you and he were committing a crime against his ex? But then you didn't think it was funny later when it was the police, not his ex? It's all harassment, it's all the same (terroristic) threat.
Calling his ex was a terrible, illegal idea. Calling the police was a terrible, illegal idea. Calling the police back to try to "explain your innocence" or whatever was merely a terrible idea.
Also i never knew prank calls were illegal… me, friends, cousins, etc. have done them many times, saying stupid shit.
Look, I just thought it was illegal to carry through with the threat, ok? Just a threat itself i didn’t know was illegal.
You weren't tricked into doing anything. What you're failing to grasp here is that even if it was "just" his ex it would have been illegal. Also, even if "I was tricked into it" was a defense, that's a defense to make in court to the judge, that doesn't keep the police from arresting someone. And, "it's just a prank bro" is not a recognized defense to criminal acts.
What's most baffling here is that it seems like you think it was perfectly OK to call someone's ex to threaten them with a violent crime, as that was happening (or as you believed that's what was happening) "we were just there snickering and laughing our asses off." It's not funny, nor legal, to threaten someone with violent crimes.
Would it be illegal if my cousin said to me “when you go i’m gonna beat your ass?” Or if my friend said li’m gonna kill you in your sleep?” I never knew that was illegal.
The general rule is the unless the person knows 100% it's just a figure of speech, then it's a legal issue. You and your friends know that when someone says "I'm going to kill you" that 100% they are not serious. But when those things are said to others, people whom you don't know, then that's when the people may get involved.