In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The vote here Saturday morning came at the DNC’s winter meeting, where Biden and Vice President Harris spoke Friday to some of the party’s most active members from across the country. Biden, who has yet to officially announce his reelection plans but has said he intends to run for a second term, was greeted by cheers of “four more years” as he took the stage.
PHILADELPHIA — Democrats on Saturday voted overwhelmingly to remake the party’s presidential nominating calendar, embracing President Biden’s push for South Carolina to be the first state to hold its contest in 2024, replacing Iowa amid calls for greater racial, geographic, and economic diversity in the process.
The move by members of the Democratic National Committee was long expected, but it does not guarantee the calendar will ultimately be enacted as designed. In December, Biden asked DNC leaders to move up South Carolina, which sealed his comeback victory in the 2020 Democratic primary, to the first slot.
Under the new plan, New Hampshire and Nevada would hold their primaries a week later, followed by primaries in Georgia and Michigan.
Saturday’s voice vote marked the last formal step in the DNC’s efforts to fundamental overhaul the nominating calendar, as the committee’s members officially approved the new order set by Biden. But the push to reorder the states still faces some hurdles.
It seems to be an issue that states and the DNC are still trying to figure out themselves. Here's what some Iowa legislators had to say about the DNC decision:
Two states granted entry into the early window — that is, holding contests before a large number of states vote on “Super Tuesday” — have yet to change the dates of the primaries and have until June to do so.
Iowa Democratic Party Chair Rita Hart said her state “has been put in a position that makes it impossible to comply with both DNC rules and our own state law, which has exactly zero chance of being changed by the Republican legislature.”.
Scott Brennan, a DNC member from Iowa, said the calendar “is a mess.” He added, “Passing the calendar today accomplished nothing other than kicking a deeply flawed can down the road.”.
In New Hampshire, where state law mandates they hold the first primary, Democrats say they cannot change the date of the primary. DNC officials have already passed rules that dictate states violating the calendar order will be punished, as will candidates who campaign in states that hold primaries outside their assigned days.
Just have another state pass a similar law so that the entire universe collapses from the ensuing paradox. Sure beats the current state of affairs. Do it before we have to file our taxes, please.