An often pointed out fact is that ownership of enslaved people was not anywhere near universal in the South, and while Southern apologists disingenuously like to diminish its importance by citing the number of people who actually owned enslaved people as relatively small (only the head of household would "own" the enslaved people on behalf of a whole family, and people who didn't own enslaved people benefited and could take advantage in a variety of ways), it was nevertheless a concern of the plantation class that abolitionists may be able to convince lower class white Southerners that slavery was not good for them. It drove down wages, it created a permanent upper class of wealthy plantation elite, and so on.
Good question, and it was one that Northern politicians and moderate Southern politicians from slave states were wondering about out loud at the time, too. Put it into context: Even before the Civil War and the Secession Crisis, there had already been related crises. The most notable is the Nullification Crisis of 1832-33, during which some South Carolina politicians had threatened secession by a "state's rights" or "Compact Theory" interpretation of the Constitution, a view that had never had much support in the federal judiciary (almost certainly to have South Carolina's argument on behalf of nullification upheld by the federal courts). This culminated in the South Carolina General Assembly passing an "Ordinance of Nullification" in November 1832, signed by the governor in February 1833, to secede from the Union if South Carolina did not get their way.
TL;DR: Many secessionists understood that Lincoln and the Republicans in the incoming 1861 Congress likely wouldn't be able to get their agenda enacted. But his election represented, to them, a turning point in federal politics. Due to the population discrepancy, the North had now proved they could win the White House and gain Congressional majorities without any Southern support at all. That meant, compromise and concessions from the North would soon be unnecessary, and slavery was certainly going to be an eventual victim. Secession was important in the aftermath of Lincoln's election because there was likely to be no future point when the South would be as united as they then were in support of slavery, and against the Republicans and abolition. It was "now or never". If they did not take a stand in support of slavery at the present moment, Southern politics were sure to soon fracture on the slavery issue, and it would be doomed. Secessionists were willing to go to war to prevent that from happening.
Violence was averted by a Congressional compromise, though not before President Andrew Jackson issued declaring secession to be illegal. There was a famous Senate debate at the time, too, called the Webster-Hayne debate between Daniel Webster of Massachusetts and Robert Hayne of South Carolina, highlights of which were published in newspapers nationwide. Webster was roundly considered victorious in his defense of the Constitution that it rejected nullification or secession as a legal constitutional remedy to federal-state disagreement.
Another flash point had occurred with the passage of the Compromise of 1850, after which there was a Nashville Convention of representatives from slave states, some of whom advocated for secession in response to the Compromise, though this was still a minority view. Nevertheless, Southerners in Congress lobbied for a more favorable compromise and further concessions by the North, to replace what had been passed by Congress in 1850.
And at the time, many of South Carolinas's that a state had the right to secede, let alone that it was justified in the 1832-33 circumstances. But over the next couple of decades, the pro-slavery, pro-state's rights wing of Southern politics became more vocal and more extreme, and began to find supporters in almost all the Southern statehouses, particularly in the Deep South.
Through the presidencies of Franklin Pierce and James Buchanan, the situation over slavery deteriorated even further, especially due to the fallout from the Kansas-Nebraska Act that led to the proxy war known as Bleeding Kansas.
In the lead-up to the 1860 Presidential election, with the North having organized of repealing the Kansas-Nebraska Act, of stopping the spread of slavery to new states out West, of repealing the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850, and of appointing abolitionist judges to the federal courts, there were calls by Southern politicians during the campaign that the election of Abraham Lincoln would be tantamount to an act of hostility against the South that could only be resolved by secession.
About six weeks later, on September 22, 1860, in support of slavery but against secession. After giving many reasons why secession would be worse for upholding slavery than would continuance in the Union, he said that Lincoln's election by itself was not reason enough to secede:
Not every politician from the slave states saw it that way, however. During the campaign, in August 1860, U.S. Senator John Crittenden of Kentucky gave saying that, even with a Lincoln victory, however alarming that may be to the South, it should not be a cause for disunion. Slavery could survive a Lincoln presidency, and the best course of action was to fight the constitutional way, through the congressional process, against any anti-slavery measures that Lincoln and the Republican Party proposed. Oppose the Republican platform in Congress, then vote Lincoln out of office. Secession was a drastic, and unwarranted act:
Of course, Lincoln was elected, and within days, South Carolina was passing legislation to hold a secession convention, and other states had followed suit by the end of November. South Carolina was the first to secede on December 20. Six more states seceded by February 1 of the following year.
There was a lot of negotiation of "compromise" back and forth during the Secession Winter of 1860-61, essentially to make further concessions to the South to prevent secession. But Republican politicians, and many in the North otherwise, already felt they had given way more concessions than they should have under the Compromise of 1850, and the Kansas-Nebraska Act, and Dred Scott, and more, so compromise didn't get very far. Though it did get far enough that the "Corwin Amendment" to the Constitution got its 2/3 approval in both houses of Congress in the last days of the Buchanan administration. However, it was a rather modest concession, basically saying that the federal government couldn't interfere with slavery where it already existed, and making a concession that the feds could never abolish slavery in those states in the future against their will, even if they had the votes to do so. But this didn't do anything to stem the tide of secession.
So, why, if even many Southerners recognized that Lincoln could not enact legislation on his own, and his Republican Party did not possess enough votes in Congress to do all that their platform entailed, why did Southern politicians resort to secession?
In the days before South Carolina seceded on December 20, 1860, there was debate on the floor of the Senate over an earlier, failed, compromise (the Crittenden Compromise, in fact, proposed by the aforementioned senator from Kentucky). During the debate, that echoed the sentiments of both Crittenden and Houston. Sorry it's a bit long but it is all worth reading (emphasis mine, which is the section most relevant to your question):
For some Southerners, Lincoln's election was just the final vindication and justification that they needed to finally turn the tide toward secession that they'd been advocating for since the Compromise of 1850, or in South Carolina's case, even longer. But by and large, it was less of what Lincoln and the Republicans had the immediate power to do, and more of what Lincoln represented. From George Washinon's inauguration in 1789 until Lincoln's election in 1860, the South basically had had uninterrupted power at the federal level. John Adams had Federalist majorities in Congress throughout his presidency, but since 1801, Southerners had been in firm control of at least one house of Congress almost without exception. And in all the exceptions, they had controlled the Presidency, which they had dominated since 1801 as well. John Quincy Adams had been the only president between his father and Lincoln that was really unequivocally anti-slavery; men like Van Buren and Fillmore always left room for compromise. The ability of Lincoln and the Republicans in the House to sweep into office, despite not being on Southern ballots at all, was the writing on the wall that a political party no longer needed Southern support to gain electoral victory. That mean that the "compromises", or, really, Northern concessions on slavery, would soon become a thing of the past.
While obviously biased, Northern abolitionist Orville James Victor made this argument at the end of the war, in his 1865 book , writing that secession "was not the result of the election of a 'sectional' President" but rather:
Southerners at the time wouldn't have much disagreed with Victor's interpretation, though they would have put it in different terms, such as Northern "tyranny" and unconstitutional "Black Republicanism". But Southern secessionists certainly did fear the lack of control they would be able to exercise in U.S. Congress and the White House going forward. Senator Matthias "Matt" Ward of Texas basically said as much in December 1860 debate on compromise legislation:
We Have the War Upon Us: The Onset of the Civil War, November 1860-April 1861 by William J. Cooper, 2012.
I know "what ifs" aren't great historical questions, so hopefully I'm phrasing this properly... Would it be fair to say that the South was correct in their evaluation of the political climate? Did the election of Lincoln fairly illuminate the demise of institutional slavery?