Emancipation is not for children that are trying to escape abusive conditions. Emancipation is for children that are already fully self-sufficient and need the freedom to manage their own finances.
A part-time job at Dollar Tree and couch surfing at a friend's place is not going to convince a judge you are self-sufficient, as that is not nearly enough of an income to support an adult living on their own.
The appropriate thing to do in this situation is report the problems to CPS, or speak to a counselor or trusted teacher at school, who could make the report for you.
I have one more question please, an emancipated child has to still be in school, and working, right? how can one be in school and working, and yet a part time job isn't enough? I don't think you can be going to school 5 days a week, and have a full time job? please correct me if I'm wrong, I'm trying to learn.
What is the solution for kids who don't want to end up in the system? do we just have to ride it out? As much as I'd love to say DHS/The police has been helpful to me, it hasn't, and I have no faith that it will. The last time my grandma called the cops on me, the police officer told me that I only have a few years and to deal with it. He didn't even take into consideration that I said I don't feel same in this house.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
. It has sample forms and a video about it. You’ve been given information about the need to show you are self-supporting. There are two other big issues for you.
I was more saying the adult friend thing, as in I have a reliable place to stay. Thank you so much for the advice, I'm still thinking about what to do.
You cannot file the petition yourself. It must be filed by a legal adult, called a “next friend,” on your behalf.
Your parent or legal guardian must consent to emancipation. If they do not consent, you may be able to be emancipated by making a very compelling argument.
You've just nailed exactly why it is so difficult to get emancipated and why it is not for average kids who just want to move out early.
It is really only meant for kids who are already very successful in their early lives and do not need their parents interfering in their finances. Perhaps they have graduated early and started a successful business, or lucked out and became a successful actor/musician, etc. Generally speaking, you're right, it isn't typically possible for a minor to do both a typical, mundane full-time job and also continue going to school, which is exactly why emancipation is so rare.