They're not required to sell you their products for more than 60% off because you found an exploit in their online store.
Extreme hypothetical: Merchant sells $1000 TV, but bundles in a free roll of toilet paper that they claim MSRP is also $1000. Merchant delivers toilet paper and you use it. Afterward, they cancel the TV and charge you back the full value of the toilet paper. You can't return it because it's already been used. Are you now stuck with this $1000 bill because the merchant canceled the TV without your authorization?
That's where my issue is. I agree that they are not obligated to sell me anything. However, they are required to refund in full any items that were not delivered, correct? They have not done so. Are they actually allowed to partially refund in this scenario?
I know it's an extreme hypothetical, and perhaps because of nuance it wouldn't apply here. But my understanding is if a merchant fails to deliver an item, they are required to refund it in full. If there are exceptions to that, and this is one of them, I would love to know that.
There is, as you say, nuance to that. But they have refunded the phone in full. And adjusted the price of the tablet to MSRP which is perfectly typical and reasonable here.
Return the tablet for a complete refund. Or keep the tablet and pay MSRP for it. That's how nearly all bundles work.
The difference with nearly all bundles, when it comes to refunds, is the customer authorizes the return and refund, not the merchant. I have a hard time believing the merchant can do that without ramification. That pesky nuance keeps popping up!
This didn't start because Samsung decided no phone for you. It started with your effort to defraud them. If they refused to take the tablet back, that indeed would be complicated and ugly. This isn't. At all. Keep the tablet for MSRP, or return it.
The cancelation of an item was reasonable. You tried to defraud them and they caught it. If the cancelation of the item wasn't reasonable (e.g. they canceled the item just to see if you failed to notice how much you were paying for the tablet) the answer could be more complicated.
I understand in my circumstances, I (the customer) benefit and the merchant loses. In the above hypothetical, the merchant benefits and the customer loses. The law has to apply equally in both circumstances. So can a merchant cancel the sale of a bundle and force you to pay MSRP or return the promotional item after delivery without your consent?
The jump to defrauding the company is a bit startling, since what I did did not seem to be anything worse than what extreme couponers do. Anyway, if what I did was considered fraud (TIL coupon fraud is a thing) then naturally the merchant is in their right to combat fraud however they see fit.
If you’d entered a bad coupon code once, the legal fundamentals here wouldn’t perhaps be any different, but our sympathy for you might be.