As a brief reminder, this post is for experts to post about how Crusader Kings II represents history (or doesn't). As such, any comments that ask questions on this post will be removed. Next week, there will be an AMA thread on the topic, where we'll be throwing the floor open to questions.
The Bon scriptures used for events is listed as the Mdo ‘dus. “mDo ‘dus” as it should academically be written, would be pronounced Do’dü, not ‘m-du-duss. It also betrays a deep misunderstanding of the Bon religion which I find rather bizarre considering that all of the other unreformed Paganisms the scriptures are listed as “the Legends” (or in the Germanic case “the Sagas”). This points to the more ritual, oral, and decentralized (i.e. unreformed) nature of Pagan faiths as opposed to the literate and bibliographic faiths that would come to almost entirely replace them. Weirdly, the devs decided to give the unreformed Bon a scripture, but I can’t for the life of me figure out what scripture they were referring to or found. “mDo ‘dus” literally translated to the “assembled Sutras” which sounds much more like a Buddhist scripture than a Bon one. However, by the time Bon stuff was actually set down to writing (beginning in the 1300s) so much crossover had occurred that the terma movement was as much a Bon development as it was a Buddhist one. The Bon even adopted monasteries, chortens (stupas), monasticism, even the imagery of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas as their own. So a Reformed Bon could definitely have a scriptural assembly, but secret Bonpos hiding out from the reigning Buddhists would not be secretly reading to their heirs to be proper Bonpos. And they most certainly would not be reading from scriptures titled “assembled Sutras.”.
If one reforms Bon and becomes the secular-and-religious head of the religion, your new title is This would be like referring to the head of your Reformed Asatru as the Ecumenical Patriarch. The term “Dalai Lama” isn’t remotely associated with Bon religious tradition. Hell it’s not even a purely Tibetan term. “Dalai” comes from the Mongol word for ocean, a literal translation of the “rgya mtsho” in Sonam Gyatso’s name when he met Altan Khaan in the 1500s. If I had to offer an alternative, I’d suggest Menri Trizin (lit. Throne Holder of the Mountain of Medicine), which is the name of the current head of the Bon religion (which has been reformed, at least by the game’s standard).
I was tremendously excited with the Rajas of India expansion that they would add Tibet to the game and I could roleplay a Tibetan Empire that never fell! Alas, it was not to be. The devs got cold feet and when Rajas was released, there was just a big black hole where Tibet was. They did add Buddhism, Hinduism, and Jainism, and I’ll discuss those below, but when I checked the update log, they said they didn’t include Tibet and “Dalai Lama style succession” because it was too complicated to include in the game.
I acquired the “Cruel” and “Arbitrary” traits and everyone within ear shot had to listen to me explain why the devs were wrong, how the tulku system didn’t exist in the CK2 timeframe (more on that shortly), and how the Tibetan Empire, which was far more similar to the Mongol and nomadic empires which are a big focus of CK2 (specifically with The Horse Lords), had a somewhat complicated primogeniture succession. (If I remember correctly, it was on one of these rants on r/crusaderkings that I grabbed the attention of some devs here and they encouraged me to apply for flair).
Well, then Jade Dragon came along and while I was (am) sincerely happy that now I can play in Tibet, and am honestly impressed with the amount of research non-specialists did in making a more-or-less accurate Tibet simulation. That said, on with CK2's representation of Tibet, Bon, and Dharmic Religions (and how they could/should be improved without too much change to the game systems).
Tibetan culture characters have the option of constructing “Gonpa Monasteries.” I loath redundancies. “mgon pa” literally means “monastery.” As far as I’m aware, “Monasteries” aren’t a building option for any other cultures, and certainly no one has access to a “Gonpa.” The term I usually prefer would be “Dzong,” which Bhutan usually translates to “Fortress Monastery” which nicely combines both the religious and defensive functions of the structure.
Tibetan Imperial Succession is still as yet, unclear, but there is a lot of evidence that Tsenpos rose to power at age 13 (!). Thirteen is when one becomes a man, and this created some weird problems to the new Tsenpo’s father and predecessor: to transfer power, not just temporal, but spiritual power, the previous tsenpo had to die. Since the Tibetan language just barely predates the game (was invented in the 630s) it’s still unclear as to whether or not ritual execution/suicide was actually practiced among Ancient Tibetan kings. Sonsen Gampo (who has a heroic lineage in the game) apparently broke this tradition by passing the Empire to his son, Gungsong, who died before his time, and so Sonsen Gampo returned to rule for some years more. Erik Haarh has some textual evidence that Sonsen Gampo committed suicide ultimately to pass on the lineage, though that this was the tipping point of a change in Tibetan culture. I think it would be ridiculous to mimic this system in CK2 since there are obnoxious regencies that go on until age 16, and it’s not inconceivable that a player might have a child at that age and could thus limit Tibetan reigns to thirteen years, which would be dumb. Also that by the time CK2 starts, that system was on its way out. There’s a lot more to say on this, but it’s a bit much for this post which is already excessive.
Bön: the umlaut isn’t necessary. Yes that is how it’s pronounced, but there’s no other religion or context in the game in which we will confuse it with anything else. There’s no accent above Cátholic.
The names are… weird. They use “Tibet” for the empire, which is a pretty modern development, but has historical precedents in Turkish and Indian languages. I was impressed by their use of “Maryul” in what would usually be called “Ladakh.” “Maryul” literally means “Red Country,” a common epithet of Ladakh. But then they use Ü-Tsang, which is a combination of two areas in Tibet, Ü and Tsang. Not totally weird, but it is more than anachronous. But the one that gets me is the use of “Bhutan” as far back as 769. “Bhutan” as a term wasn’t mutually exclusive with “Tibet” until 1776 when George Bogle decided to designate the “northern realm of the Teshoo Lama” as “Tibet” and the “southern realm of the Deb Raja” as “Bhutan.” The most accurate names to apply to the country in the time period are “Mon” (the land of darkness, i.e. the land without Buddhism), “Lhomonkhazhi” (the southern dark land of four approaches), Menjong (the land of medicine, a reference to the area’s flora), or just “Lho” or “Lhomon” which would be my choices. Both refer to “south,” and “Lho” is the very simple name by which the country’s founder, Zhabdrung Ngawang Namgyal” referred to it. The one the devs would probably like, though, would be Drukyul, Country of the Dragons, both for its name, it’s bridge between ancient and modern, and the fact that it’s not so obscure. Then again… Maryul.
I can’t tell why the devs use that weird Bhutan flag. They’re clearly aware of the more detailed and accurate white dragon that current sits on Bhutan’s flag. They use the proper dragon for the Fascist, Communist, and Republic alternate history versions in the Victoria series. But for some reason, the modern and proper flag uses a weird green dragon instead. Other than the obvious (the flag is a modern creation dating from the 1930s), I feel like there’s a regulation regarding the use of the proper Bhutan flag that I can’t find and the devs are respecting (for whatever reason). That said, I can’t find it. If I had to choose a historical symbol more accurate to Lhomon’s creation as a separate entity, I’d choose the Yes, it’s just as anachronous as the Flag of Bhutan, but it’s closer to the CK2 time period, and it’s the oldest symbol of the region’s separate identity.
A fun hobby of mine while working on my thesis research would be to be scrolling around on treasuryoflives.org, find a scholar relevant to my work, and then find out he lived during the CK2 time frame. Welp, I’d load up CK2, go to the relevant year, find where that scholar/monk lived, zoom in to find his monastery/temple was actually represented, find that the devs did enough research to actually represent him in-game, aaaaaaaand he’s a Theravada. I get that these traits are probably randomized, but I find it so bizarre that the devs put so much research and time and thought into accurately representing the game and they didn’t include this basic trait. I mean, I know the game suffers from lag problems already, but it’s so bizarre to go so far and come up weirdly short.
I have to say, Bon is oddly weak in the game. When the Tibetan Empire fell in 841, Buddhism collapsed fairly spectacularly and Bon (as the traditional telling goes, though more accurately we should say “Tibetan indigenous religion”) reasserted itself forcefully. This will almost never happen in AI Tibet. This isn’t surprising seeing how small Bon is and how many provinces nearby the Buddhists already start out with.
The Tibetan portraits are awesome. Compare the portraits of the Tsenpos with Tibetan , the , or, in the case of the Mongolized Phagspa, this .
Also, Padmasambhava was a King, according to legend. He was king of the semi-legendary Zahor. In my perfect CK2 Tibet, Zahor would be a titulary title so even if the allegedly immortal Padmasambhava dies, he passes on that title down to his High-Learning, High-Piety heirs.