Some title companies will place their name and the title commitment policy number on the deed itself before it is recorded.
Therefore obtain a copy of the deed that put you in title from the county recorders office and look at it.
Most deeds also have the name and address of the person or attorney who prepared the deed along with the name of the notary who notarized the sellers signature.
Finally you should give us the name of the state in which the property you were trying to sell is located.
If the title issues or problems occurred after the recording of the deed that put you in title, then the title policy will probably be of no help to you.
Probate Court did reach out to Christopher S. Curry on 10/29/07 to have him address this issue of the husband and gave him an extension until 12/28/07. Then, on 2/11/08, estate was closed by Rule 4 Order.
Thank you for your reply. The property is in South Carolina. But I thought that owner's title insurance was supposed to protect the buyer AFTER the deed was cleared and recorded by the closing attorney. If it does not, why buy title insurance?
In your case, finding the old owners title insurance policy would definitely help you in your situation.
Christopher S. Curry had already conveyed subject property to the current owner and Seller, Homeowner Solutions, LLC.
2006ES32-190 Estate of Irene Boulware Curry. She dies intestate 8/16/00. Per her estate, husband Robert Curry may have inherited an interest that was not addressed. Irene’s death certificate filed with the estate lists him as her husband/spouse.
Abstractor found no probate or deeds out from a Robert Curry. However, a google search revealed that Robert may have died after Irene on 11/23/01.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Your current title company should be able to come up with some ideas as to how to find out which title company was used when you purchased the house. The current title company can provide you with a copy of the deed that put you into title.
The question is .... did he have legal title ownership to the property at the time he deeded the property to you?
At least in my state if you produce an owners title policy that you received when you purchased the property, the current title company that you are using to sell the house should be able to rely upon the conclusions of the past owners policy.
Moreover, if the current title company will not ensure title, you could insist on using the old title insurance company when you purchase an owners policy for your new buyer.
You could ask your Agent, if you used one when you bought, about the title company or you could contact Mr. Curry and ask him if he recalls the name of the title company.
It's also possible that the current title company you are using to sell your home already knows the name of the old title company that issued you an owners title policy.
However the new current title company may not want to discuss this issue with the old title company and issue an owners policy on the sale to your buyer on their own terms.
By handing your new title company a copy of your old policy will force them to deal with their inability to issue an owners title policy to your new buyer.
More importantly the old title company that issued the old title policy will probably be more than willing to issue a new title policy to the buyer who is purchasing your home.