Ideal scenario would have been quarantine while vaccinations were being developed and refined, followed by the entire population being immunized, and then a gradual return to business as usual while ensuring there are adequate medication supplies.
But if only 65% of those over 80 were immunized before re opening, what even was the point of such strict quarantine measures? You’re just back where you started.
A vaccine is not a treatment. A vaccine prevents becoming ill such as the measles vaccine or the MMR vaccine given to infants.
Well when you reject the vaccines that work and use vaccines made by yourself that turned out to not be so effective against the original COVID-19 strain, now multiple variations later, you will have to accept the fact you messed up big time.
Why so many people saying the Chinese vaccine don’t work? There is data out there verified by not China that it is in fact very effective. Just because you get fever doesn’t mean anything, as long as a ICU visit is prevented it has done it’s job. As for the unvaccinated that’s on them for not doing it and listening to people like this who says vaccines are not that effective.
As it turns out trying to vaccinate against a virus is extremely hard and even moreso against a virus mutating as rapidly as COVID is.
China as a country is lead by a one man dictatorship now with a cult of personality on the level of Mao Zedong.
China not taking MRNA vaccines is on them. They have their own vaccine that’s just as effective in preventing severe illness from omicron proven by data which is the point you ignore. For people who don’t vaccinate what is even the point of importing vaccines when they don’t take them.
You have not rebutted any of my points. You even ignored the fact that the Chinese Communist Party REFUSED to accept the MRNA vaccines offered by the international community.
Rebuttal 1: If the vaccines were effective then that would have naturally resulted in a zero covid outcome for the vaccinated.
The vaccines weren't effective which is the draconian quarantine measures were enforced for such a long time.
Rebuttal 2: Since I can't read then how is this reply being typed out on a phone using letters of the English alphabet that have to be read?
The Chinese Communist Party vaccines are not MRNA vaccines and thus lack the ability to be tailored so quickly.
MRNA vaccines can be tailored, and have been, with each booster to adapt to the latest strain of COVID.
COVID through prevalent mutations has declined in mortality and symptom severity while increasing R0.
Rebuttal 4: I'm not ignoring the data. I'm saying the data itself is wrong. If the CCP vaccine was so effective at preventing the latest strains then the rest of the world would be asking for the vaccine, but the CCP vaccine isn't effective at all. This is proven by the CCP vaccine not being asked for by the rest of the world.
Nah I’m good no need for further argument. If you don’t believe in data then there is no point. Everything can be made up. Just believe what you want, I won’t dispute you. There is no sense in argueing that.
1.) Because draconian is effective in a zero Covid strategy. Which they have abandoned if you noticed.
2.) Again since you can’t read. Vaccines have long lost total prevention after Alpha. That includes MRNA vaccines, you still can get Covid even vaccinated. The job is now to prevent a severe case.
3.) Vaccinating is hard because people don’t go to vaccinate for x amount of reasons. Dumbest take I’ve heard so far is you will die if you take the vaccine.
Also looking at the data again, you are right. Chinese vaccine is not as effective. Still very effective.
Stop moving goal posts. If the vaccines do not prevent sickness then they are not vaccines and are treatments.
Two doses of Pfizer in 60 years older protects by 88.2% against severe disease and death. Whereas three doses shoots up to 98.1%. Whereas Chinese vaccine is 74.4% after two doses but shoots up to 95% after three.
That’s basically it, you’re right. What write after is only for people who want to rationally discuss this.