Any country capable of building a nuclear reactor can build a nuclear weapon, as once you have the fissile material, building a nuclear bomb is trivial, as nuclear bombs are deceptively simple devices.
Yeah I get that but aren't there already treaties with npt to stop production by counties that already have them and countries with nuclear reactors?
Like France, they're not making any more but also have the largest amount of reactors in the world?
What's more, while nobody who has is making new ones (ostensibly, the reality may or may not be murkier), but they are maintaining the stockpile they have, and a percentage of those warheads are still ready to go at a moment's notice.
Far more problematic are those who haven't ratified the treaties, like North Korea, which has become a nuclear power despite it's lack of actual military might or proven delivery systems.
What I'm getting at is this: While those who ratified the UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons (among others) aren't producing new nuclear weapons, some nations which didn't are still actively getting their own nuclear programs off the ground, and you cannot stop that, because now that nuclear weapons exist, the one surefire way to be taken more seriously is to have nuclear weapons of your own.
This is what the concept of Mutually Assured Destruction is built upon, and it gives the new nuclear power a lot more leverage militarily.
I'm not saying they don't work as deterrence. What I'm saying is that it's not acceptable and we shouldn't capitulate to countries that are threatening to blow up the world because their idiotic war of conquest isn't going the way they want. They're not being forced to make nuclear threats as the guy I replied to seemed to think, they're just being assholes.
I'm not saying that it's a good thing, but again, the genie is out of the bottle and you can't shove 'em back in.
As someone who isn't Ukrainian, I'm not qualified to answer that. In general, though, I'm not in favor of blowing up the world, regardless of who does it.
You might not be in favor of it, but you know what? It works. If Ukraine had their nukes, Russia would very likely not have invaded.
China will walk into taiwan, and neither the US nor europe will risk global nuclear war over it. We won't even try for a proxy war like we are doing with Ukraine, because that just would not work with China on the other end.
North Korea has nukes. Iran is trying to get nukes of their own as hard as they can, if they don't have one already. All for the same reason - if they have them, the west will be much less likely to do anything militarily.
Oh, I know what he \said\. Presidents aren't Emperors though. We are going to find out pretty soon - my bet is within 3 years.
That's not what . And despite whatever batshit things Medvedev has to say this week, we're not letting that influence our support for Ukraine, nor should we. This is because nuclear weapons aren't a free pass to invade and pillage all the non-nuclear countries in the world and they don't actually need to be used just because you're not getting everything you want.
You do understand that all that does is remove nuclear weapons from the United States, while Russia, China, France, the UK, Pakistan, India, Israel, North Korea, and many other countries all still have nuclear warheads.
True, it hasn't invaded anyone, they have enough problems internally to last many lifetimes, namely, that the cartels run basically everything.
It's called MAD, Mutually Assured Destruction, the concept is that if two major powers have nukes, neither will strike first because if they do, the other will retaliate. Both sides lose, naturally, that means nobody wants to ever throw the first missile.
Like I said in another comment, this train of thought is a pleasant one, but alas, it is one rooted in the naïve notion that throwing all the nuclear weapons away will solve all our problems somehow. It won't.
The Nuclear genie is out of the bottle, and you cannot force it back in. Any nation capable of building a nuclear reactor is capable of building an atomic bomb, which is a .
Disarming one nation does nothing but make that nation weaker on the world stage, and for the US, removing nuclear warheads also removes their leverage against nuclear attacks, because MAD is a thing.