Do you mean the word "amen"? It's not Latin, it's Hebrew, and it's used pretty frequently in the Bible.
In Hebrew אָמֵן means something like "truly" or "so be it." In Deuteronomy 27 it's a cry of assent: the Levites are supposed to state a law (e.g., "Cursed be anyone who misleads a blind person" NRSV) and the people are supposed to consent to that law by responding, "So be it!" By the Second Temple period it appears in prayers and liturgical practice. For example, in Tobit 8 (2nd or 3rd century BCE) it's used at the end of a prayer. Modern Jews use it prayers like the Kaddish.
It's very frequent in the Gospels, especially John, in constructions like ἀμὴν ἀμὴν λέγω ὑμῖν (Truly, truly I say to you...), usually the punchline in some teaching of Jesus. Examples: John 5:24; 10:7. It shows up in places like Romans 1:25, where it indicates that Paul is quoting a liturgical formula. In some manuscripts it's also the very last word of Revelation, and a lot of English translations therefore retain it as the last word of the Christian Bible (the latest Nestle-Aland edition has it as a variant reading, but it has strong and major manuscripts witnessing to it).
So, to answer your question, Protestants retained it because it's an indelible part of the Christian liturgical tradition, inherited from the Jewish liturgical tradition.
Just to emphasize - this is a word that Jesus uses _a lot_ to the point where it may be a characteristic of an actual historical Jesus or at least an attempt to maintain a sense of "legitimacy" as with various Aramaic phrases in the Gospels. Whenever you see a teaching of Jesus translated with a word like "verily", "certainly", "truly", "surely", there's about a 95% chance that the Greek has "amen".
Yeah, I was looking up citations for my answer and I hadn't realized how different Jesus' usage is than most of what's in the Hebrew Bible, especially in terms of frequency. That's probably partially explained by changes from pre-exilic to late Second Temple usage, but Jesus goes overboard.
It's one of those big linguistic things that's especially interesting to compare when reading John, where you basically have Jesus saying a lot of things that are very much in line with the theology of John but which appear in no other gospels. (Basically things to the effect with "I am God, equal with God the Father" and so on). It's almost like the author of John goes _way_ over the top trying to emphasize that "no, guys, this is really exactly 100% what the historical Jesus was saying, I don't know why the other gospels written 30-odd years earlier don't have this stuff!".