You can get a court-ordered paternity test once the baby is born. I would not assume you are the father before getting a positive test result given the circumstances. If you are the father, you do not really have many rights until the child is born and I don't think sending letters to her will make any positive difference given that she's clearly not interested in being in contact. I would be careful of anything that can be seen as harassment. I don't see how this (sending letters or lack thereof) would be relevant for child support. If you are the father you will be responsible for child support regardless, unless your custody agreement is equal or you have the majority of custody. It would not be wise to think of having more custody as saving money. Caring for a child is expensive which is why child support exists in the first place. You are either paying it in direct expenses and reduced ability to work or as child support to the mother, there is no getting out of the financial responsibility of having a child.
Edit: Given that you're considering this in terms of finances, you should also be sure you're well prepared to actually take care of a child emotionally and physically if you fight for any kind of custody.
I would contact a family attorney. You need to know your rights in regard to your child. You need to start getting a game plan for a custody agreement. If she has gone no contact and stopped engaging in co-parenting talks, that means she's cutting you out of the baby's life.
Be preemptive and proactive. You need to get a court ordered paternity test to establish parental rights, get that paperwork going now. This isn't about your romantic relationship any longer. Your child's needs must be the priority and come first.
You should also be open to the possiblity that she's already working with an attorney or has a custody plan. Any letters, texts, etc. that you send, she's likely keeping for evidence. I'd suggest documenting all of your communication efforts. If she does communicate, make it solely about the child, her pregnancy health, or the baby's needs. I wouldn't send a letter until you consult with the attorney. They can better advise you how to proceed.
ETA: They have financial services in TN. It was probably a bad idea to leave your job. I get you're concerned about your finances, but you need to make sure your priorities are straight. She could cut you out of this child's life forever, and in TN your paycheck can be garnished for child support. You need legal advice. It's better to get ahead of this than to wait until she serves you with papers.
Also, if you have any texts where she declared her intention to get pregnant with you, save it, make hard copies, and give it to the attorney. Anytime she's addressed or acknowledges you taking her to the hospital, building the nursery, buying her or the baby things, etc. save the texts/voicemails, make hard copies, and give them to the attorney. Regardless of your finances, you're going to have to get an attorney. Either, she forces you by taking you to court, or you get ahead of it and serve her.