Good morning and welcome to the “Pick Your Poison: Climate, Disease, and Human Disaster from the Middle Ages to Today” conference panel Q&A! Natural phenomena, from volcanic eruptions to pandemics, have obvious repercussions for humans throughout history. This panel explores the ways in which societies have responded to natural and environmental disasters from the Middle Ages to the present day.
Dr. Christopher Rose (/u/khowaga), presenting his paper, “The Importance of Epidemics for Social History”.
What is the difference between an epidemic and very successful virus? This paper examines the epidemic as a social event—demonstrating that a key part of the experience of an epidemic is how societies react to the presence of disease and the fear of death, and how they channel their anxieties and fears. In the present moment, Black Lives Matter has taken on a new life in the midst of the COVID-19 lockdown; while the mass protest in a time of quarantine has struck some observers as unusual if not illogical—in fact, such social upheaval in the time of epidemic is relatively common.
The historian Roger McGrew observed that "an epidemic intensifies certain behavior patterns \[that\] ... betray deeply rooted and continuing social imbalances." From protests over cholera in Europe in the 19th century, to the anti-Chinese ordinances of the San Francisco plague in 1907–08, and the revolutions and uprisings that followed the "Spanish" flu of 1918–20, this paper demonstrates how epidemics provide moments of social tension and abnormality that allow historians to gain insight into the everyday lives and worries of normal people—the poor, immigrants, and minorities—who might not otherwise have left written records.
Daria Berman (/u/dariabermanama), presenting her paper, “The Anti-Jewish Riots in the First Castilian Civil War”.
This presentation highlights the key aspects of economic, social, and demographic change that influenced the start of the anti-Jewish riots in the first Castilian Civil War (1355–1369) between Pedro I and his half-brother, Enrique de Trastámara. It addresses the effects of the Black Death on the social hierarchy in Iberia, mainly focusing on Castile, as well as Pedro I’s price controls that sought to resist inflation and his struggle to balance monarchical power with factions in the nobility. Underlying these social and economic changes, It highlights the increasing vulnerability of the Jews and the anti-Jewish riots that occurred throughout the civil war. It argues that in combination, the Black Death, the taxation system, and the monarchical tradition to exploit Jewish moneylenders, create a more cohesive understanding of the causes of the anti-Jewish riots and the civil war, a blame shared not only between Pedro I and Enrique de Trastámara’s armies, but the whole of the Castilian populace.
Chris Day (/u/Dr_Cl0wnius), presenting his paper, “Computing Cholera: Topic Modelling Catalogue Entries for the Correspondence of the General Board of Health (1848-1871)”.
The correspondence of the General Board of Health (1848–1871) documents the work of a body set up to deal with cholera epidemics in a period where some English homes were so filthy as to be described as “mere pigholes not fit for human beings”. Individual descriptions for each of these over 89,000 letters are available on Discovery, The National Archives (UK)’s catalogue. Now, some 170 years later, access to the letters themselves has been disrupted by another epidemic, COVID-19.
I’m just tuning in now to this panel, and I look forward to being able to follow up with questions. For now I just want to say that Dr Rose’s presentation so far is absolutely fascinating to listen to.
That’s a great question, and the funny answer is that I actually didn’t - the Ph.D. program was the first time I did history as a formal course of study. My undergraduate degree was in international relations, and my M.A. in Middle Eastern Studies.
In the mid-1250s, the Samalas volcano in Indonesia erupted in the single largest eruption of the Common Era. The resultant sulfate aerosol cloud expanded worldwide, causing global climatic disruption, apparently culminating in 1258. Ongoing projects detail multiple years of poor weather, crop failures, and related disease outbreaks. The Samalas eruption’s long-term effects coincide with the end of the so-called “Icelandic Commonwealth” and the submission of the Icelandic elite to Norway in 1264. It therefore is justifiable to explore the social impacts of this eruption, and whether they contributed to the decision-making process of the Icelandic elite.
This paper examines how data science can be used to repurpose archival catalogue descriptions, initially created to enhance the ‘human findability’ of records (and favoured by many UK archives due to high digitisation costs), for large-scale computational analysis. The records of the General Board will be used as a case study: their catalogue descriptions topic modelled using a latent Dirichlet allocation model, visualised, and analysed – giving an insight into how new sanitary regulations were negotiated with a divided public during an epidemic. The paper then explores the validity of using the descriptions of historical sources as a source in their own right; and asks how, during a time of restricted archival access, metadata can be used to continue research.
​Adam Bierstedt (/u/sagathian), presenting his paper, “Galt margr óverðr þessa ófriðar: The Samalas Eruption, Unusual Weather, and the end of the Icelandic Commonwealth”.
Using comparisons with the Tambora eruption, this paper records significant environmental disruption, including a disease outbreak and ice surrounding Iceland, and contextualizes it in European climatic impacts generally. It explores how the literate elite interpreted the disruptive weather effects, and the ways in which it was and was not incorporated into understandings of the elite feuding of the end of the Icelandic Commonwealth.
I went to a magnet high school with a strong humanities focus, which is what made me interested in other parts of the world. International Relations seemed like a good fit, although I wasn’t very good with the political science parts of it. I spent a year in Cairo as an undergraduate that is still one of the defining experiences of my life, and sent me down the road toward my eventual master’s degree, and I suppose the doctorate came from realizing that I like discovering why things are the way they are. I eventually realized that what interests me is how normal people lived their lives in the past - kind of mundane, but also the hardest thing to work on.
Play around with your interests in college while you can. Even though I’ve always focused on the Middle East (medicine came about fairly late as an interest, and even now I’d say I focus on health in the Middle East), some of the best classes I took were on Latin America or India. See what appeals to you, and get outside your comfort zone to explore approaching topics you’re interested in from different angles. You can, for example, marry archaeology and history and do a program in Art History (it’s not just about paintings, honest). Plus, all those skills give you better avenues to look for eventual employment.
My question is for with regards to your DH work. Do you see any value in archival digitization initiatives so that computational methodologies can be employed directly on the source texts themselves in addition to on the catalogue descriptions of these sources? Do you think if you had topic modelled the full texts of the General Board records your results would have varied from the results you got from the catalogue descriptions?
But as u/khowaga says, the issues arise when the initial, devastating wave of these diseases (what Engels called a "universal terror" that "seized the bourgeoisie" in the 1831-2 outbreak) fades, and people are asked to a) alter their behaviour and b) pay for new protective and preventative measures.
It plays in both directions -- not to step on /u/DrCl0wnius's toes, but in Egypt during the cholera of 1883, the British authorities did very little to proactively deal with the epidemic on the basis that Egyptians "didn't have the same regard for life as Europeans" (no, really), and since they didn't care about hygiene (a common accusation in imperial settings), any measures would be wasted anyway.
Cholera is often described as a 'shock disease' due to its rapid spread and symptoms/deaths when the conditions are right, and in my context we're looking at a society where one local official in Yorkshire described the dwelling of the poor as "mere pigholes not fit for human beings" and most urban people's water supplies, whether rich or poor were drawn from wells often \next to\ a cesspool.
Certainly we find in the records of the General Board of Health that after the initial terror of cholera fades in 1849 many local elites are highly resistant to measures that might protect their poorer, un-enfranchised neighbours - even though they had often explicitly called for them months beforehand - because it would put their rates up.
What's interesting (at least to me...) about this period is that in the General Board we have a central government body tasked with and staffed by people committed to enacting these changes with a degree of permanency, with mixed results!
Finally, can you speak a little about why you chose latent Dirichlet allocation over something like latent semantic analysis in your own research?
This makes sense I've heard it said that LSA models are faster to train but that LDA results are more sensitive, so I suppose that's one consideration I'm using latent semantic indexing and word embedding models in my own research and so I'm just fascinated by the way historians employ natural language processing with different sources. Thank you so much for your answer!