What was the relationship of the ex with his executor? Generally speaking the executor is tasked with following the wishes of the deceased with regards to funeral arrangements. You can legally challenge the executor but you can't do it simply because they're following the directions of the deceased.
With that being the case I would start by simply having a discussion with the executor about the arrangements that they are making and see what reason they have for the additional service. If they were not aware of any specific final wishes that this additional 'celebration' was requested by the deceased then there's not really a justification for it since the desires of unnamed parties isn't really a good reason to have additional events. If they insist on having it anyway, regardless of the financial impact on the actual beneficiaries, then you (your children) would have to challenge it in court to stop them from proceeding. That expense is going to cost the estate as well though since he did name that person as the executor.
Given the very limited estate value, this may be the best way to start. Hopefully you can appeal to this person's understanding of what is financially responsible for the actual beneficiaries. INAL, but having been to my share of funerals I've only been to one where there was a similar event and that person's estate was significant, therefore not meaningfully impacted by any of the events. It was also the wishes of the deceased that there be an actual party for his friends.
The second event came about because of limited attendance at the funeral. Some family members (not the beneficiaries) would like to welcome their friends, in-laws, etc to accept their condolences and celebrate his life.
Sounds like your children should have their own counsel, but that will eat into the inheritance as well. Maybe a letter to the executor explaining the kids’ position would help? Idk this executor sounds like either a pushover or unreasonable; but maybe just unthinking. I concur w the first post in thinking the relationship between your ex & his executor may be important, likewise any previous experience you may have had with the executor. So for example if his executor is also his widow I would definitely pursue counsel for the children.