It’s my first time answering a question here, and I hope I don’t break any rules. But I’ll try my best!
Being a historian is far deeper than learn as a hobby. You’ll learn how to make a properly investigation of your field of interest and also all the others too. Have in mind that you’ll learn about methodology, application and probably will read a little about “everything” (also everything is impossible, but let’s take that as an example) as modern and contemporary history.
First of all, learning history as a hobby is really different when you made this as a job decision. For this, you’ll need compromise with a university and for that, maybe 3/4 years of research, or even more, that’s depends where you’re from and what you have in mind. Want a good pay check? You’ll need a master or even a PhD on history.
I’m currently working on my masters degree on History of Human Rights as a a primary subject. Besides our main interests are far different, I think I can contribute as someone who work in the field about 6 years here in Latin America.
From there, you have some options. But realistic speaking, is about teaching and doing research most of the time.
If you don’t see yourself teaching in a university (where mostly you’ll have a good financial return) you can work as a librarian, archivist, in a museum or even aim for production of documentary’s, as a TV consultor and many more. As an example, my wife is a historian with a PhD about horror movies and work in a podcast.
Just be aware that, in some countries, librarians, archivists and museum curators are very specialized professions; and while some places might hire non-specialized historians to do it, many won't.
Even if we're considering historical archives, you're talking about two very different professions and two different masters to get there. A historian not trained in archives would have a hard time learning everything he needs to know on-the-job, and an archivist would have an even harder time undoing their untrained work.
That said, it's common for people with a bachelor degree in history to then do a masters in Information Science (or Archival Science, if you prefer that name).
But those 3 options you've mentioned may not be realistic for OP (or others here) if they only intend to study history, depending on where they're from.
2) University/college trainig with bachelor/master degree in history and/or political science, followed up by doing your own research and getting a PhD. This is followed by two years vocational training/internship as archivist.
1) "Low-level" entry for a administrative office job. Learning through vocational training, starting at 16 or 19 years (depending). Wage cap as for higher paid jobs with more responsibilities one needs a university degree.
I have two history degrees (undergrad/grad school) but my answer may differ slightly from the others. History is an amazing passion to have, but when you devote the necessary time in academia in order to become successful it is very easy to burnout. What you may have enjoyed before now becomes incredibly tedious (bibliographies stretching into oblivion, working with difficult advisors in your area of interest). The sheer amount of writing involved in this discipline can easily destroy a formerly beloved passion. History does not offer the same job opportunities, security, or salary as many other professions that also require graduate degrees. You may spend the necessary time devoted to your degree(s), but this is a highly competitive field, again with little job security (especially at the moment with covid-19 and how undervalued the humanities are overall in our society).
This is not to say that you don't have what it takes (given that you already have an impressive degree) but you may find that you need to go back to school in order to pursue teaching or other entry-level jobs in the field.
I recommend auditing classes at a nearby university, you may get the "fix" that you're craving on your own terms- you get to pursue your passion at a relatively low cost and enrich yourself and others in the course while maintaining the lifestyle you already have achieved. Bonus if you connect well with a nearby professor/ specialist in your area. I've seen auditor/professor relationships that were tremendously fulfilling for both parties. I had auditors in my classes who had successful careers outside of the discipline and were EXTREMELY knowledgable about the course topics, oftentimes they were second to the professor (who would sometimes rely on them for random knowledge given their extreme level of interest). This ideally would be your outlet for a few hours every other day/week depending.
I wish the best for you and I hope I answer some of your questions. If you have some more, feel free to ask me!
Hey OP - historian here that went so far as to try a PhD, but did not have enough ambition to see it through.
If you build a relationship with a professor (well known within the discipline), audit their classes, and grow to learn more about your area of interest, you could potentially contribute research/writing to all kinds of projects. Auditors can contribute research papers and project proposals for courses, author books relating to their interests, sometimes even submit papers for publication in scholarly journals. And again, this is all on your own terms.
You will have to master at least Latin and - if Jewish history shall be your focus - Hebrew would not hurt. In order to round these two fields, Ancient Greek is also recommended. We are talking about the Mediterranean here and those are the languages that were prominently spoken and which shaped the socio-cultural background of the ancient world/antiquity.
In addition to the excellent advice already given, I want to point out that in order to be able to focus on your area of interest (after having acquired a broad historical knowledge according to the syllabus) you will have to master at least one to two ancient languages to really shine and study Roman and/or Jewish history.
(Source: Studied history and had to get a Latin degree as I did not bring it to the table from my school days.).
It depends, of course, on what you plan to do with your new degree. For a teaching job and most of the jobs within the public sphere, this is not as mandatory. But if you want to enter the academic field - as u/lurkerbot17561806 outlined before - you have to be able to read the original sources and make up your own mind about them.