I've broken this up into two parts: the first are primary sources, and the second scholarship. For introductions, while some scholarship can help contextualize things for you, a lot of it relates to very fine points of historiography that won't be very useful, and to understand the culture first and foremost I think you should engage with the culture itself!
This is an abbreviated reading list of what I envision would be useful for an introductory course on Bolshevik and Soviet literary culture; I have bolded the more important works.
Maxim Gorky, The Lower Depths (1902); social realist play and antecedent to Soviet literature, though--as the title implies--with a much more critical valence.
Alexander Bogdanov's Red Star (1907), with introduction by Loren Graham; socialist, extraterrestrial utopian sci-fi!
Vladimir Mayakovsky, A Cloud in Trousers (1915); this might be what you mean by "picking up pace"--probably the standard example of Russian Futurism, but for more of Mayakovsky's more iconoclastic inclinations, A Few Words About Myself is one of my favorite poems.
Alexander Blok, The Twelve (1918); a Bolshevik poem that was lambasted by nearly all its original readership--why?
Nikolai Nekrasov, Who is Happy in Russia?" (1877); epic poem coursing across Russia contemplating class, life, and happiness.
Isaac Babel, Red Cavalry, (1925); extremely rich short stories that underscore the reality of war in contrast to the violent fantasies of figures like Mayakovsky.
This list is, of course, far from complete, and if you follow up with particular threads that might be more interesting to dive deeper into I am happy to point you in different directions. We have the growing literary culture in the decades preceding the revolution explode under the early Bolsheviks, alongside satirists like Zoshchenko prodding at the reality of Soviet life and lamentations for what could have been; the thread to perhaps consider chiefly is socialist realism, as this becomes the state literary culture of the 1930s (and you can read these novels, but they are just not good literature). For artistic culture, I would turn chiefly to the avant-garde with figures like Malevich, Chagall, Popova, Goncharova, Kandinsky, and El Lissitzky, but important antecedents might be Ilya Repin (Barge Haulers) and the Mir iskusstva movement tied to the journal of the same name.
Sigizmund Krzhizhanovsky, “Quadraturin" (1926); fantastical, existential reflection on communal apartment.
Gleason, Kenez, and Stites' Bolshevik Culture is a more academic, but excellent resource; somewhat outdated.
Stites' Revolutionary Dreams is an intriguing characterization of Bolshevik utopianism that is taken up in Krementsov's Revolutionary Experiments.
The three books that most immediately come to mind are all by Katerina Clark: The Soviet Novel: History as Ritual (Bloominon and Indianapolis: Indiana University Press, 1981); Petersburg: Crucible of Cultural Revolution (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1998); and Moscow, the Fourth Rome: Stalinism, Cosmopolitanism, and the Evolution of Soviet Culture, 1931–1941 (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2011). I will be honest, all three can be quite dense, and more than a little difficult to read, which is probably why u/Dicranurus made the perfectly defensible choice of not recommending them. However, Petersburg is exactly about Soviet avant-garde culture and literature in the 1920s, and the other two books have large sections on the 1920s and go into great depth about cultural trends at the time.
Fitzpatrick, Rabinowitch, and Stites' Russia in the Era of NEP, esp. Robin "Popular Literature of the 1920s", is another good collection addressing some of the challenges of conceptualizing and implementing the New Economic Policy.
If you want somewhat less dense reading, though, the final article that u/Dicranurus recommends is a good choice, and though it's getting towards the end of the period you had in mind, Katerina Clark's article "Little Heroes, Big Deeds" in Cultural Revolution in Russia, ed. Sheila Fitzpatrick, is another good option. If you, finally, want something even more concrete and focused than any of these general overviews, I have also heard good things about Manuscripts Don't Burn: Mikhail Bulgakov, A Life in Letters and Diaries (Woodstock, NY: The Overlook Press, 1992), by J.A.E. Curtis.
P.S. — Can't believe I forgot it, but if you want a broader cross-section of academic history from multiple authors, I would recommend Russia in the Era of NEP: Explorations in Soviet Society and Culture (Bloominon: Indiana University Press, 1991), edited by Sheila Fitzpatrick, Alexander Rabinowitch, and Richard Stites.