Hilarious. Russian volunteer in "LPR" Murz explains how expensive Russian EW works. It's put in the rears to avoid destruction by artillery and... you guessed it, it jams own Russian equipment. And no one does anything about it because "orders". Waste of money, says Murz.
Russia has the greatest disparity of wealth in the word. In a country of 140 million people about 9000 people have over 90% of the assets.
The middle class is what makes democracies strong. Not the rich. Not the poor. The middle class have the ability to make changes and the desire that make them. The rich don’t want change. The poor don’t have the ability.
There is a reason why Authoritarian governments always fail. The lies become a house of cards that is destined to fall.
This is by and large wholly true. Examples being the rigidity of decision making in the Third Reich. The part about having the heart to see things through is probably the most important aspect. Underlying lots of "failures" by democracies in war have been a sense of moral ambiguity about the aims and the desire for men to not die needlessly, something the Russians feel they can capitalise on by making the cost of the war too great for public opinion. Thankfully I don't envisage that happening at all in Ukraine although my sense is things are going to get very messy before it's all over. Putin thinks he's literally fighting for his life and he probably is making this an all in face off. Foremost for Ukraine to win is to keep the message about the collective need to defeat Putin uppermost in the minds of everyone in countries supporting the war effort. If that aspect is achieved the Russians are totally screwed from an ability to fight modern war.
President Vladimir Putin’s war in Ukraine was meant to be his crowning achievement, a demonstration of how far Russia had come since the collapse of the Soviet empire in 1991.
Well, down is a direction too… and Putin has quite successfully shown how far down Russia has come since the time of the USSR, so… success is some type? 🤷.
I have not seen any change in this direction despite RU claims. What I have seen is geolocated videos of horribly failed attacks by the RuAF side. Red/blue dots are geolocated positions. I have not moved the front line here.
“In cooperation with France, we are completing the shipment of SAMP-T. In any case, there are other actions that we are working on confidentially,” the Italian official said.
⚡️Latvia will not allow russians fleeing from mobilization into the country, — the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Maris Kuchinskis, in an interview with Delfi.
The minister stated that Latvia has a concrete action plan in case of the announcement of a new wave of mobilization in the russian federation and massive attempts by russians to flee to the Baltic country.
This was reported by Politico with reference to the statement of the chairman of the foreign affairs committee of the US House of Representatives, Michael McCaul.
According to him, such a decision of the White House will be able to create a domino effect to force other countries to transfer Leopard 2 tanks to Ukraine.
⚡️Italy and France are completing preparations for sending the SAMP-T air defense system to Ukraine. This was announced in an interview with Corriere della Sera by Italian Foreign Minister Antonio Tajani.
If persecuting 19 year-olds is what the Russian government needs to do to make themselves feel important, then they are lost.
I haven't written about the Svatove-Kreminna axis because the fog of war is thick. Now that 🇺🇦 is knocking on Kreminna's door, we're getting clarity. Here's a short 🧵 explaining what's going on, & why it's a big deal.
"We want to be sure that the Ukrainians will win and that it will happen soon, because this is the best way to save as many lives as possible,"- he said.
⚡️ Great Britain is discussing with NATO allies the delivery of Leopard 2 tanks and other modern combat equipment to Ukraine, said the head of the Foreign Ministry of the United Kingdom, James Cleverley, in an interview with the Sky News channel.
Girkin does not think highly of a successful Russian offensive in the coming future unless done by small motivated units such as Wagner on limited sectors of the frontline. He believes Russian forces have no superiority over Ukraine to achieve success anywhere due to low morale.
If Chancellor Scholz lacks the political will, he shouldn’t be looking for excuses. In our ARD interview @ZelenskyyUa says: “Ukrainians don’t need 80 years to understand what a tank is. We are not that stupid.”.
Wow. 120 thousand KIA, and almost 10 thousand mechanised fighting vehicles (tanks plus IFVs) in 333 days.
That’s 360 dead and 30 pieces of heavily armoured fighting vehicles destroyed every day for almost a year.
This will go down in history as one of the worst planned and worst executed military campaigns ever.
Russia is recording almost WWII losses because they are rising equipment and tactics that are barely improved from WWII.
This Ukrainian artillery strike on a Russian position somewhere in Zaporizhzhia oblast send those Russians straight into orbit. I’m not certain but i believe that ammunition (and a lot of it) got hit.
Any country that accepts the American offer is a loss for the German military industry. And with each country losing German industry, Berlin's political influence over its allies in NATO and the EU diminishes» — Neue Zürcher Zeitung.
The United States is offering used Abrams tanks (pictured) from its stocks, as well as a long-term industrial partnership, to any European country capable of supplying Leopard 2s to Ukraine — Neue Zürcher Zeitung.
If Germany does not agree to the supply of Leopard 2 tanks, we will create a smaller coalition of states ready to share tanks with Ukraine, — Polish Prime Minister Morawiecki.
"We will not just watch as Ukraine bleeds out. And we will not allow Russia to capture Kyiv and then burn Europe.
Ukraine and Europe will win this war - with or without Germany. It only depends on Germany whether they want to join the end of Russian barbarism, or whether they will continue to passively watch.".
To those who think putin can still turn things around on the frontline: his army is not a pumpkin that can magically turn into a carriage. It’s just a pumpkin, even if it can grow big.”.