why wouldn’t i want my money back?? and they can literally check the cameras or count the cash register. which they did both and said the cameras are to blurry and the cash register is the right amount.
how would you feel if a business took your money that you worked for and didn’t give it back to you? wouldn’t you want it back? duh, so why point out that i said i want my money back. like of course i do tf. you just finna give away money like it’s nothing or sum?
Nobody is saying you don't want your money back, there's just no way for you to prove your side of the story that doesn't require spending substantially more than $20 on attorneys.
The police investigated and determined that nothing happened, and there's no real proof either way that you gave a $20 or $1.25. Your only two options to escalate this would be:
Of course not, that's why I've explained to you two ways to escalate the situation and get it resolved.
Sue in small claims for $19, which is likely going to be significantly more effort on your part than it is worth.
it could be the employee at the register stealing it though. cause how else would the “cash register be right” if they stole the money :/. unless they just saying the register is right. i wish that the cops could look for us and see themselves ugh.
It could be. Not sure if you have worked in a business with a register. After a shift, money is counted up and ties to a register report (based on transactions run up). Managers generally arent too happy when a register is over/under the report, especially multiple times. You could contact the owner and ask them to check if the register was over that day, I am sure they get reports that show the daily over/under for the store.
Generally each DD is owned by a franchisee and that information is usually disclosed in the store (and a lot of times near the drive through area). Contact them and make a complaint. Maybe they send you a giftcard or something.
Can any store do this? I guess. Is it worth it for them to get caught and face jail time (if they were doing it to a large extent), then probably not. While this might sound strange, companies generally have ethical values, at least when the dollar amount is small. Companies are not going to risk bad press for stealing.
If the employees were stealing, then they would take the money from the register. My thought is, in this day and age, if it was being done on any type of scale (once a day, few times a week, etc), you would have bad reviews and the owners/managers might look into it.