I have some problems with the premises of this question, but I’ll try to answer it as best I can. Hopefully I don’t end up answering the question I wish you’d asked, rather than the one you actually asked! I should also say right at the beginning that although I’m good on Roman religion, my knowledge of religion in Ancient Greece is patchy so I’m not going to address that side of the question. In terms of how I’m going to approach this topic it’s actually not a problem – one of the premises of the question that I find problematic is the idea that there were these two separate things called ‘Greek culture’ and ‘Roman culture’ that can be compared and contrasted as neat, bounded entities. It’s probably too much of a tangent for me to address that properly here – perhaps we can go into it later if someone is interested.
However, the Roman association of Mars with war was more complicated than just the overseer of battles and armies. He was more closely connected with the purification and protection of the army, and by extension the whole city. The major festivals for Mars were clustered in March (the month named after him), at the beginning of the campaign season, and October at the end. In the March festivals, Mars was asked to protect the soldiers and their equipment in the coming battles, and in October the rituals remove any spiritual pollution picked up over the summer, thereby protecting the army and the city as a whole. It’s important to remember that for the entire republican period there was no professional Roman army – all the soldiers were conscripted citizens who were drafted for particular campaigns and then disbanded once they were no longer needed. Hence the close connection between the army and Rome more generally – the army was the citizenry and vice versa.
This connection with the ordinary citizenry brings us onto Mars’ other main area of influence in Roman religion: agriculture. Cato the Elder, in his handbook on agriculture, makes it very clear that Mars was called upon to protect farmland, and that specific sacrifices were expected before using land for the first time. Again, Mars is being called on as a protector and purifier and is worshipped using the same rituals that were used to purify the army before going into battle. It’s interesting that Cato specifies that the sacrifices be offered to a particular version of Mars – Mars Pater or Father Mars. This is almost certainly a reference to the fact that Mars was supposedly the father of Romulus and Remus (having raped their mother), and therefore symbolically the father of the whole Roman people.
So, we’ve got a relatively clear picture in the republican period of Mars as a protecting and purifying god, connected with the army as a god of war, but also presiding over farmland and the population of Rome in general. I’m not quite sure where you’re getting the idea that Mars represented wars that brought peace – I can’t really think of any specific ancient sources that discuss him like that, although I’d love you to point me in their direction!
OK, so let’s focus on Mars. He seems to have been worshipped at Rome from very early on, although the evidence for archaic Rome is not good. Later Romans would have us believe that the whole edifice of Roman religion was invented by Romulus and Numa, the first two legendary kings of Rome. This includes the worship of Mars – Livy (1.20), Plutarch (Numa 13) and Dionysius of Halicarnassus (2.70) all attribute the foundation of either one or both major priesthoods of Mars (the flamines Martialis and the Salii) to Numa. The major problem here is that all these writers, and indeed all the information we have on archaic Rome, come from much later – no earlier than the 1st century BC. They were not writing what we would call an ‘accurate’ history of the city’s early history but were using these descriptions to define Roman culture for themselves and their contemporaries, and to debate its problems and peculiarities. Again, probably too much of a tangent to go into too much detail here but suffice to say that the literary record on Rome’s early history must be read very, very carefully. Nevertheless, we have no reason to doubt the fact that Mars was worshipped in early republican Rome by dedicated priesthoods, and that this worship was connected to the army.
I wonder if the question as you’ve asked it is actually more to do with Roman attitudes towards and justifications of their own wars of imperial conquest, rather than being specifically about the god Mars. It is certainly true that from at least the first century BC, the Romans were starting to think about why they go to war and the ways in which they have conquered their empire. In his speech on the Lex Manilia, Cicero gives hints that the idea of so-called ‘defensive imperialism’ is already being bounced around, suggesting that the Romans waged war on their enemies to ensure security, peace and prosperity for themselves and their allies. This idea gets a huge boost under Augustus after 27 BC, once he’s ended the civil wars and installed himself as the first emperor. From then on Rome supposedly entered a new Golden Age of peace – the Pax Augusta – free from strife and bloodshed. The job of the army now was to preserve the peace, even if that often still meant fighting offensive campaigns against the barbarians outside the Roman frontiers. The Roman historian Tacitus criticises the obvious paradox in this image – into the mouth of Calcagus, leader of the Caledonian resistance to the Roman invasion of Scotland, he puts the now-infamous words: “To robbery, slaughter, plunder, they give the lying name of empire; they make a desert and call it peace.”.
There's also likely to be sense of purification from bad omens and other things that harm the relationship between humans (individually and collectively) and the gods, so that they will protect the army and ensure its success in the coming battles. Lots of Roman religion is focused on keeping the gods on the side of the Romans, and I think the offerings to Mars in March are certainly oriented in that direction - the god needs to be kept sweet, otherwise he might remove his favour from the Romans or directly seek to harm them.
As one of your standard nerds who went through a mythology obsession, I love reading great answers like this that complicate the idea that each god was assigned one or maybe two specific, rigidly defined things to be in charge of.
I think my problem with this is that it's not a realistic model for any human culture or society. They're slippery, malleable, changeable beasts that can mean vastly different things to people depending on a huge range of factors. We know that's the case for our own contexts - the way I might define my own (British) culture will be very different to, say, a black woman from London or a Welsh farmer. There will be some overlaps, some stuff we might agree on, but also huge differences in music, religion, language, clothing etc etc etc. And this is not even to go into how culture changes over time - all three of us in 2019 will understand British culture very differently to people 10, 50, 100 years ago.
Finally, March and October are both transitional periods for the army, when the men go from civilian to soldier and then back again. On the way out they are leaving their normal lives in the city or countryside, taking up arms and going off into foreign lands. When coming back they are shedding that martial side of themselves and reintegrating into peaceful civil society. On a spiritual level, transitions and changes of state are always difficult and potentially dangerous for the Romans, so getting the assistance of the gods was often necessary.
I think all of this must also be true for the ancient world, although of course the nature of the evidence makes it much harder to get a true reflection. Thinking about Rome, what does it mean to describe someone as Roman? Do they have to be born in the city? If so, that discounts big names like Cato the Elder, Cicero and pretty much every emperor after the Julio-Claudians. Do they have to speak Latin? That counts out half the empire, where Greek was the main language. The Romans themselves were always asking these questions, especially around the late Republic when the empire was expanding and encountering all these weird foreign people. I wrote a post last week about my problems with the term 'Romanization' - it doesn't work because even for the Romans there was no single idea of 'Roman' culture that could be imposed on the provinces.