The child in the house needs to get a lawyer. Normally the will must be followed, but the amount of time that has passed might give the child in the house a claim to the house under the theory of "adverse possession." It depends on a lot of facts, a lawyer can help sort through them.
I was looking up adverse possession, but I guess that's questionable. I wonder if the will is even legitimate. The only reason I would say the situation might not be hostile/adverse is that he's only asking them to move out now. But I guess if there's any suggestion that he always wanted the house, then yeah that would adverse.
If the child lived there 30 years continuously then said person will at the bare minimum qualify as a tenant and can't just be forced to up and leave at the beheast of the estate with zero notice.
The biggest question is - did the child living there get the deed transferred to themselves or does the recorded deed still have the parents name.
I suspect the child that has come out years later is hoping to force a sale of a house and cash out with elevated housing prices. Problem with that would be the child living in the house has since paid down the house so in theory should be entitled to more of the equity and that could muddy the waters. The estate is owed the value of the sale after mortgage is paid off via the sale. Since the one child paid down that mortgage the other child can not assume an equal share without having paid anything towards the mortgage (either out of pocket or via the estate) Since the child paid that portion and another didn't one could argue that their portion should be substantial in comparison at at a rate in which they paid. So of they paid off 25% of the value of the original mortgage (say 25k of a 100k mortgage) then they should be entitled to 25% of the current value of the house PLUS then their share of the remaining 75%.
Now they could offer to buy out the other children but I would use that math as a first step so if house is valued now at 500k and they paid 25% of the original mortgage themselves I'd look for it to be fair that they take 125k right off the bat and then the remaining 375k is split (and they still get an equal share of that so if 4 kids they'd get 218k while the others got 93k.