This happens effectively all of the time and is part of why history is an interpretive craft and not an exact study of "fact." For one thing.
That's not to say no one studies hadith, quite the opposite. Even if you assume that they're all later forgeries, they can still tell you a lot about what Islamic legal debates were in those centuries.
To give one famous example of the kind of interpretation of primary sources that historians engage in, This example gets into some of the tools that historians can use to interpret history, e.g. what is the provenance of the source? When was it dated? How does it compare to what was transcribed by an eyewitness? How do the documents compare with each other and how much overlap do they have?
Is there any evidence that people from centuries ago were less sophisticated than we are about deception?
It's also an example of why "real"/"fake" isn't necessarily the dichotomy that historians are dealing with. We know that Lincoln spoke at Gettysburg. The trick is in making a determination of what he might have actually said on the day.
If someone did want to commit a forgery in 800AD (say somewhere in the Middle East), would he be so naive that he'd never think that maybe "I should include an embarrassing anecdote, because no one will believe I would were it a lie"? This sort of strategy is well-attested in the modern world, and common enough that I don't think it has a particular name. It's a sitcom cliche for crying out loud.
There are sources however that might be outright forgeries or fabrications. In Islamic Studies, one of the great, unresolved questions is whether the collected sayings of the Prophet Muhammad can be treated as having any historical reliability or whether they were partly or entirely fabricated centuries later. There are various forms of analysis that can be applied to try to tease out whether a given piece of evidence might be fabricated or not. For example, you could try to apply the which holds that a statement that is embarrassing to the speaker or source material is more likely to be true or non-fabricated. But this can create a meta problem of assuming that we know what a scribe (or fabricator) thought might be an embarrassing statement to record--a very large assumption when, in the case of hadiths, we're looking at reports from 1400 years ago in a radically different cultural context.
All of this interpretation and method is part of historiography, the methods historians use to approach history and to define the field itself. For further reading you might want to take a look a the historiography section of the book list:
One of the other issues is that all hadiths have what's called an "Isnad", which is the chain of transmission from the prophet to the person recording the hadith. 'Muhammad told Ahmed, Ahmed told Majid, Majid told Hamed, and Hamed told me.'.
Both testaments of the Bible have this problem too. Even the long sought "Q" document for the New Testament was probably written some years after Christ's death/ascension/return to heaven. Not to mention all the differences in world view among the centuries of translators.
Robert Hoyland's Seeing Islam as Others Saw It is one such compendium that emerged from the challenge of looking at non-Islamic sources about 20 years ago:
This is supposed to be a verification tool that the hadith is sound, but the problem is of course that for a clever forger, there's no reason why they couldn't attach an impeccable isnad to a fraudulent hadith.
There are different approaches, but one is to simply treat all of this material as fraudulent because it's impossible to determine what's true or not.
Once you say "Ok, we're not going to argue about the reliability of hadiths anymore, we're going to look for other contemporary sources" that unleashed a lot of research into non-Islamic sources about the rise of Islam.
Some of the most interesting research into the rise of Islam is looking at these non-Islamic sources, or in early Islamic textual sources like Egyptian papyri, a lot of which like some of the Oxford collections still hasn't been translated or analyzed.
I always point people to Robert Hoyland's as a good overview of the various approaches scholars can take to this material.
There's also the simple fact that humans aren't tape recorders, and memory is notoriously unreliable.