In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
You should be able to file a civil suit against a media company or political figure just like dominion did against Fox.
Any elected official who spreads disinformation about elections without evidence should be disqualified from holding office. It is an attempt to perpetrate fraud and lies on the American people, rather than serving them in good faith.
In fact, I'd say that this should be the determination before being banned from holding office. Otherwise, the Republicans could get control of Congress and declare that anybody who doesn't accept that 2020 was rigged is lying and is thus banned from office.
Make them bring their evidence to a court room and try to testify under oath and under penalty of perjury. All the "2020 election conspircists" talked a lot to the press and over social media about how the election was stolen. Once they got to court, though, they wouldn't testify to this under oath. All their evidence seemed to evaporate.
You would still have to prove it in court just like everything else. They have actually managed to get companies to pay for polluting rivers, why can’t they get media companies and charlatans to pay for polluting the air waves? It’s the same concept. you can’t just sit there and spew toxic shit and lies into the community with impunity. There have to be repercussions.
Public accountability and issuing grievances are the powers for which the 1A was enshrined. It doesn't include any rights to commit fraud, lies and slander, her often-claimed conflation and abuse of the amendment.
As long as a person is not committing fraud, libel or slander, they're free to take any political position you like.
For example, she could say she's saddened by the election results, but she is not free (entitled by the 1A) to wrongfully attack voters' election results, election workers, voting machine manufacturers, and members of other parties by falsely accusing them of "stealing" the election.
I would generally agree, but she's issuing the same "big lie" as Trump did, in trying to claim voter fraud, deny US election validity. J6 was the result, and she needs to be held accountable not only for her participation in those crimes, but for continuing the crime into this election cycle.
Her lies have already contributed to political violence, and still can. She remains a danger to our democracy, and must be stopped. We can't afford to simply ignore her, but must convict her, demonstrate the crimes to all of those who would support her.
People can tell me I'm dreaming in hoping for conviction, but it's an ideal to which I'll continue to cling. We must first conceive of it to will it into existence, whatever it may be.
Think good thoughts about the States who are still counting House votes. Maybe we could compel Blue to do something about the SC grifters and liars.
The Speech and Debate clause covers only "official duties," and fraud, libel and slander can never be part of their "official duties.".
. It really just boils down to their poor sportsmanship, poor citizenship, poor leadership, and being willing to cheat to win.
I checked a few days ago, and in my small, red county, voter participation increased by 171% over the 2020 election. Lines that are typically less than a dozen people were an hour and a half long and were the main topic of conversation.
I have an entire (long) diatribe on this issue pinned to the top of my account. Specifically, this item is under the heading: Candidates and members of the Government cannot have it both ways.
I'm picturing something like a tennis match, and the only points they score are the ones in their favor.
They don't even know the basic rules of the game, much less being worthy opponents, always trying to cheat and whining like babies when they lose anyway.
Not that I disagree with you in general about mass media, but this article in no way amplifies her claim, but equates it to Trumps false claims, offering no evidence whatsoever.