Then an adjustment of status and getting married wouldn't work either. He would need to leave the country for you to sponsor him, and 100% you need to talk to an immigration attorney.
It’s a fairly straight forward process but it’s a very time consuming process. None of the above can start prior to a marriage though and you (and spouse) will be interviewed in the future to “establish the credibility of the relationship.”.
If the relationship is real and you marry, and you’re a US Citizen, you can proceed with an I-130, DS-260, I-864, and then, after being issued the conditional green card (as your marriage would be less than a year), you’ll then file an i-751 to remove the “condition” on the green card.
Edit 1: reading the above comment I would very much emphasis and encourage you to seek an immigration attorney as the status of your spouse in the US complicates things immensely.
Would we be able to go forward with an attorney right away or would we have to wait some time? Its a real relationship and like i mentioned we have a 7 month old c:
Depending on the state, you could do a “court house marriage” on very short notice (2-3 days for most) but the major concern that comes to my mind is the status of your spouse.
I am a lawyer but not an immigration lawyer and not your lawyer. The most I can confidently say is that to initiate a petition under I-130, you need to be related (read: married). But to marry, you will need to involve the state. Involving the state may not be in your interest given your scenario and, presuming (and hoping) you secure an immigration attorney, they may advise you to marry abroad in spouse’s home country and Initiate the proceeding abroad… again - not an immigration attorney so don’t take my word as gospel.
Reach out to your local bar association (google: “(your town/city) bar association”) and search for an immigration attorney or firm. If financing is an issue, your bar association may be able to direct you to firms that perform pro Bono or reduced / flare rate work.
There may exist alternative means for persons that have a child/children in the US but I am not privy in this area.