No but. If she wants you to move she can initiate legal eviction proceedings... you know, like a normal landlord. Yelling and screaming isn't it. So until she serves you with an official eviction form/notice as is appropriate in your state, she can pound sand.
As for the parking spot and access to the car: if your rental agreement states specifically that part of your rent entails that parking spot - and clearly a parking spot is useless unless you have unfettered 24/7 access - then she can also pound sand on that.
Inform her that unless she removes all restrictions on your car, you'll be filing with the tenant board (show her the form even.).
If she continues to threaten, yell, scream etc. feel free to involve the police (start with the non-emergency unless she starts waving a knife or something), her actions definitely fall under the term harassment.
Research whatever passes for WA's landlord-tenant tribunal and launch a complaint immediately. These boards are backlogged what with the covid, but forcing you through these hoops just to get your car in/out is directly interfering with your enjoyment of your unit... she's in violation.
And yes, WA is a two-party state meaning you can't record a conversation with her (or one of her tantrums) without announcing you're doing so. However, announcing/threatening to her that you will be "recording her ridiculous tantrum for future reference and/or legal proceedings" might be one way to get her to stop (as if she'll know the two-party bit); it may not be admissable in court tho.
Lastly, re: legal help - Im sure WA has a renter's association or some renter/tenant advocacy and assistance group, and Im sure they have a 1-800 to call for at least a "hey, is this something I should be putting up with" confirmation.
Consent is quiet broad, you can record audio along with video but you must place a sign stating that their being recorded. They consent by remaining in view of the camera(s) and signs.
To add to this, IANAL, but as far as I'm aware the recording only applies to audio-only recordings. You can set up a camera in your own home and it's not illegal as far as I'm aware. But double-check!