Since you know your 18th century dresses, I was wondering if you could answer my question (I hope you don't mind follow-up questions).
Arno Dorian (A fictional character from a video game set during the french revolution) wears , is this accurate for someone during that time? Can he wear something like or or and look normal in 18th century Parisian streets? How accurate do they look to you?
None of those are accurate for the period. One pretty big problem is the hoods: the little tiny shoulder-capes with drapey hoods don't fit into the late 1780s or early 1790s at all. It's purely something done for the required Assassin's Creed aesthetic.
Someone who knows more about uniforms would have to comment on the second and third to really get into the nitty-gritty - apart from the hood I'm not really sure what to say about the coats. In either case, he should be wearing breeches, stockings, and shoes. Yes, that looks formal and dopey to modern eyes, but it really is what they wore. Riding boots with breeches only became fashionable around 1790 (and this is from the RevWar game, correct?), let alone normal dress for utilitarian work.
The first image doesn't work at all for formal dress at Versailles. - as you can see, it's considerably more embellished and the coat is cut a) without lapels and b) not to actually button. Even if court dress wasn't required at this party, there are problems. Coats that did have wide lapels were made to be worn with those lapels open, . Double-breasted coats were also usually made with a decorative row of buttons so that they weren't asymmetrical. And, of course, his hair: to have no styling or powder was to look working-class. The narrow, colored necktie is also nothing like anything you'd see until perhaps the late nineteenth century. I don't know what he's wearing on his legs, but unless it's breeches, white stockings, and shoes, it's also very wrong.
The girlfriend's dress isn't so much modern as it is ahistorical. It looks like it might have been designed after a steampunk Simplicity pattern.
The fourth has many of the same problems as the above, so I won't repeat them. (I assume this is the French Revolution-era game?) And additionally, the cut of the coattails, cuffs, and boot-tops are extremely anachronistic. So all of these would look completely bizarre on the streets of Paris.
How does a late 18th century hood looks like? I have seen dozens of Assassin's Creed characters wear them but I have never seen how a historical one looks like. Do you have a link?
No. AC Unity happens during the French Revolution (early 1790s) and (Arno gets this outfit on 25 July 1789 and walks the Parisian streets with it). I guess as you said most of the military outfits like and and are pure fantasy.
It is funny that Arno spends so much time saying how his (Which I think is not accurate as well) is not appropriate enough for the party but then he goes on and wears a for the party. Thanks for the confirmation.
Would you be kind enough and give me your opinion on these Sans-Culottes outfits (That's what the game calls them).
Arno infiltrated the Palace of Versailles to attend a party that was being held in Élise's (His girlfriend) honor on 5 May 1789. Does her dress for the party looks accurate or is it more like 18th century costumes in Hollywood?
To be honest, I don't believe men's cloaks in the late 18th century had hoods, just an extra layer over the shoulders. - you can see that one does have a hood, but it's from a bit earlier in the century and it's also a bit of an anomaly, as part of a general's field outfit. In general, though, a historical hood should drape less closely/droopily to the head and shoulders because the fabric is woven and not a knit (you can see modern ones in stretch velvet that do look like this).
Yeah, the waistcoat is more like one you'd see sometime later in the 19th century, as is the cut of his shirt. But clearly all of these inaccuracies were deliberate, because the seam placement on the coat of the man on the left is actually perfect, as is the styling of his hair.