In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Fun fact, the soldiers and marines in occupied Fallujah had stricter rules of engagement than police patrolling Atlanta. Any of those military members did anything like this, they would be in Leavenworth so fast...
The video is still somehow worse than I thought it’d be. Justice for Tyre is a start, but there is so much reform needed.
Ending Qualified Immunity and police unions would be a start. Stop with the warrior cop training bullshit where they think it’s fucking Fallujah. Actual civilian oversight not some bullshit that has no teeth. If you’re fired from a police department for certain things or resign before an investigation can complete, you can’t fucking drive 15 more minutes out of your way and become a cop.
I hate to break this to you but a lot of cops are ex-military. One hopes that theyre ex-pencil pushers from the military and not actual combat soldiers thinking they can act like this.
People need be ok with just being an ordinary Joe. A lot of folks go out there wanting to badass heroes and can't take it when the reality of their jobs and position in life disagrees. So you get this stolen valor shit mixed up with causing unnecessary violence to soothe a fevered ego. Pencil pushers should be proud to be pencil pushers and go about their lives being peaceful. Pencil pushing is an important job. It may not be glamorous, "manly", or any of that shit but they keep the lights on and the wheels moving. It's ok to be normal and you don't need to go around starting violence in society to prove something.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
There’s more but holy fuck. People think that because they’ve been charged, that means things have changed. The culture hasn’t changed because they thought it was perfectly fine to MURDER someone with kicks, punches, and a baton because he ran for his life.
Pretty sure beating someone to death while demanding they follow contradictory commands is a bit different than shooting someone invading the capital to prevent the transfer of power.