Does this company have a separate HR department? If so, you need to notify them about the inappropriate behaviour on part of your boss. Show them any documentation of him trying to video call you outside work/work hours. If it's inappropriate material, then they should be made aware.
You need to continue speaking up. "Please don't say 'I love you' to me" each time he does it is fair game. Do not answer the video calls if they're not at work. Did you get this internship through a university/college? If so, also loop your advisor/university in because they'll want to know.
He guides me and helps me with my work but at the same time says things which make me feel little uncomfortable.
I’m not sure if I am being too nice to him, and giving him the impression that this is what I want. WHICH I OBV DON’T.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
If he continues to harass you, and HR does nothing, you can contact an attorney and file an EEOC complaint. But for an internship I don't think the juice is worth the squeeze. Just save yourself and GTFO.
Quit and get a better job. Really, you might find a legal solution here but you're young, internships are a dime a dozen at your age. Just find a different job. Internships aren't expected to be long-term commitments anyway, just leave.
Is your internship connected with a college? Where you get school credit for working at a company? Or is it a shady company calling a job an internship so they can pay you less and treat you badly?
Draw boundaries -- tell him you want to learn from him but he is making you uncomfortable with some of his comments. If he asks what, tell him. If you are too afraid to say this to his face, send him an email (bonus for the email as then you have evidence). I know when you're young this can be hard, but, not letting people make you uncomfortable is a skill you can learn. You will feel much better once you tell him, because you will see how he reacts. If he apologizes and knocks it off, no harm no foul, you will have a much better atmosphere to work in. If he gets defensive and blames you, such as, well if you weren't wearing that short shirt my pecker wouldn't get all hard, then you know nothing you can say or do will fix this, and you need to leave.