In summation: yes, people who wanted to get divorced after WWII without invoking any real fault could do so. If our.
it was actually a remake of a remake of a remake. The original was a book, Das doppelte Lottchen (1949; the girls.
Despite The Parent Trap (1961) being well-known for having remakes after (including one with Lindsey Lohan).
made into a film a year later (Das doppelte Lottchen) using a screenplay by the author, and the real-life.
life twins Jutta and Isa Gunther. It was well regarded and won Best Picture, Director, and Screenplay for the 1951.
1951 also saw a Japanese remake (Hibari no komoriuta) and two years later came a British one (Twice Upon a Time).
In other words, the story had already had international appeal right from the start, and there didn't seem to be deep.
So, mending pre-story divorces did not raise a fuss. What could raise a fuss was divorce on screen in the _middle_ of a story -- From Here to Eternity.
upset about the divorce. Meanwhile, in Hollywood, story of divorcees reunited generally met with approval, in movies.
famously had Karen (Deborah Kerr) _consider_ having a divorce (with a famous beach scene between Kerr and.
Returning to The Parent Trap, the context above meant there was nothing shocking about the divorce. It does.
were not there, but trying to address them: treatment rather than punishment. The twins Sharon and Susan (both played by.
Hayley Mills, who was a true star by then after her showing in Pollyanna the year before, and part of the reason the age got bumped up.
in a sense, take an anti-divorce stance, but in (what was then) a modern-for-1961 sense -- not pretending the problems.
from 9 to 13) meet at a summer camp, realize they are long lost siblings, switch places, and bring the parents back.
after fending off the father's fiancée using the power of love and rock 'n' roll. If anything, the use of rock music.
was the more controversial part -- in the 1950s rock still meant doom to the youth, and it is certainly possible.
Japan did return to the subject matter; one of the more fascinating remakes is the anime series from 1991.
I love how you can take something as niche as a silly comedy film and use it to explicate a whole theory on the larger social conditions that the text arose from. Awesome answer.
Brode, D. (2014). From Walt to Woodstock: How Disney Created the Counterculture. University of Texas Press.
Aquila, M. L. (2014). Movies as History: Scenes of America, 1930-1970. United States: McFarland, Incorporated, Publishers.