The rules of communication in russia are known and literature like 1984 is clear in one aspect: the system will not be changed. 1984 is a dystopia with no happy ending. So it fits with the narrative that "resistance is futile" and every political actor is equally bad and one should keep their head down.
“The rules are simple: they lie to us, we know they're lying, they know we know they're lying, but they keep lying to us, and we keep pretending to believe them.”― Elena Gorokhova, A Mountain of Crumbs.
It is commonly used in spoken language. I'd say it's mildly more expressive than a more literary "ложь" (n) or "лгать" (v).
And of course there's an obscene/vulgar verb as well: "пиздеть". And the noun in this case would be "пиздёж".
Just wondering because in my native language we got a saying going: \a crow does not attack another crow. Crows in this context being implicit known as vultures.
In context to russia it would fit to: one state agency does not attack another. The suppression methods in russia are overlapping and not reactive, they are smater: State agencies like FSB exhausted their civilians out of the hope to even talk about certain topics in a produktive way.
Oh, that's cool - in Russian there's a proverb "Ворон ворону глаз не выклюет"/"A raven would not peck out another raven's eye". In Russian, words for "raven" and "crow" are very similar: ворон vs ворона.
I'm not sure about the link between lying & crows in this case. According to , its origin is unclear. Although there are two hypotheses:
1. It comes from a proto-Slavic "вьрати" "вьрѫ" (ah, the beauty of proto-Slavic characters!). Interestingly enough, it also could be related to "врач" - "a doctor". There could be Greek roots: "ῥήτωρ" ("orator") + "ερι̯ων" = "εἴρων" ("someone who tells not what they think"). Also Serbo-Croatian "varati" ("to betray"). Apparently there are similar words in Latvian, Prussian, Latin and even Gothic.
The etymology you did dig out there for me highlights: "orator", "somewone who deceives", betrays...
However, if you are already living under a totalitarian regime, then the message could be become "resistance is futile", so it's a tricky subject.
It has a Western intended audience, with the message being "don't let Western society become totalitarian".
What is worth mentioning (for non ST readers) is that cardassia is an authoritarian, suppressive state born out of struggles. Famine and lack of resources and the following internal conflict created a society dominated by military.