In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The states that go early have a more influence on the nominee than the states that have a primary in July or August. The media will start spinning up narratives about the horse race in anticipation of Iowa and doesn't stop until we get a presumptive nominee.
Traditionally Iowa and New Hampshire go first, then we have a couple of weeks before super Tuesday. Then the presidential pack starts thinning out quickly.
Can someone explain what the big deal/point of any of this is? Why does it matter which state goes first? This does not have to be an ELI5 answer either .
The real problem is that Iowa and New Hampshire are not as diverse as other states. That matters to democrats more than republicans.
So basically South Carolina is more diverse and the hopes are they’ll pick a more progressive delegate that National democrats will rally around as opposed to the white bread version usually served up in Iowa? (I know I’m probably greatly generalizing this).
If this is the case, why don’t they go for a state like Hawaii or something? Or are they afraid they’ll end up with an outlier?
Not even close. Southern Black electorate are far more left than midwestern Democrats in the voting booth. They just prefer ppl who actually have gotten some sh!t done.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Because the earlier primaries influences the later ones esp campaigns. You want a state to lead that reflects Dem voters. More importantly Primaries are used to shape platforms. Having Iowa and NH first actually is the reason the destruction of the VRA wasn’t treated as seriously as it should of been by the left.