You'll want to talk to a lawyer who specializes in investments and securities business. It likely won't be cheap, but the initial consult will probably shake out whether the money is worth spending or not.
Some things you'll want to come prepared for include an explanation as to where the money comes from when these investments grow in value, and where the money disappears to when they lose value. For example, in classic stock exchange trading, when a share grows in value, the owner realizes that gain by selling the share to a new owner (who pays for it out of their own money). I mention this, because if _any part_ of the gain in value comes from new customers entering your platform, you need to tread very carefully, as that suggests that you may be operating an illegal Ponzi scheme.
I've disclosed all the details to a patent attorney, who didn't see any obvious legality issues, but again, patent attorneys aren't exactly experts in this area.
Investment firms and securities are the most heavily-regulated industries in the country, with the most-complex compliance requirements. (There's lots of money in those industries, and therefore lots of crooks eager to steal money that way.).
You're being coy here, understandably, but don't be coy with your lawyer. Client-attorney confidentiality protects the secrecy of your nascent business, and your lawyer cannot advise you fully if you keep your business model secret from them.
Frankly, if you are asking if your idea is investing or gambling, you don't have nearly enough capital to get the idea off the ground (because your corporate counsel would be answering this question for you.).
Makes sense. Out of curiosity, do crypto apps require the same legal requirements as other investing apps? My understanding was that they are far less regulated, so I thought they would have much smaller legal costs.
I understand and expect high legal costs, but I can't hire a corporate counsel without figuring out which attorneys I should be asking these questions in the first place.
You need a general corporate counsel, and they can advise you on the rest of your legal team. (And for securities (or gambling) laws, you'll totally need a team.).
Absolutely they do. The regulatory landscape for cryptocurrency may not be etched in stone right now but it’s rapidly developing every day. State and federal regulations are passing bills regularly that affect cryptocurrency, block-chain, etc. What’s acceptable today may not be tomorrow. Any legitimate companies in the cryptocurrency sphere are paying their lawyers handsomely to keep up with the regular changes in the US and worldwide.
My idea isn't crypto, but it also isn't a security. Since crypto isn't gambling, I'm guessing my idea isn't either. My hope was that my legal costs would be similar to crypto (and hopefully far less than traditional investing apps).
The financial sector like another poster said is the most regulated industry in the nation. You will need to plan to invest in legal guidance before you do anything unless you want to waste time and money on an idea, app, platform, or whatever that isn’t legal.