A nice unworkable plan that will fail hard unless we some how unlock some awesome new Battery tec that will allow it.
You might get away with the Bus part of the plan as you can cycle them in and out. The problem is that is not going to work for trucks and so you have the ICE trucks or you have nothing. I doubt there even going to have enough charging points to meet the needs for cars never mind trucks.
I do not know enough about hydrogen engines to say if it will work or not. If it works its great but a fast google seems to show there only just starting to be in testing so can not say if there going to be finnish and affordable enough in time to meet this deadline.
There are several non-fossil options, and several would even allow us to keep the current fleet running until it's due for replacement (bio- and E-fuels etc.).
The long haul stuff is a bigger challenge, but one that can be solved in a variety of ways. The best one, in my opinion, is fast chargers along major road ways. These trucks will need a few hundred kWh of batteries - even at 350kW that is an hour charge, and I think getting that down to 30 minutes is necessary. And the chargers need to be built with bathrooms and food courts nearby.
Its come along way over the short time engine wise and over all rest of the car but batterys are the big problem holding them back. Trucks would need batterys that can cope with the heavy power demand and range and right now we got nothing able to do that.
17 years is along time and the new soild state battery tec might allow for this to happen but i do not think it will be in time for this plan to work.
Using a Tesla semi as an example - it gets 0.5 miles per kWh of battery. Most heavy trucking can get by with a couple hundred miles of range. I brought up a fact sheet that claimed 73% is less than 150km in Europe. That's "easy" using current tech. Biggest challenge is making enough of them - and being able to charge them at their destinations/sources. "Slow" charging would be enough for them to do 1 round trip per day. (say 20kW for 10-14 hours).
If each truck can get 200 miles range in 30 minutes, that is a pretty good ratio of driving : charging of their time.
I won't believe it until I see the required investments though. We'll need massive infrastructure upgrades before the agricultural and resource extraction sectors can be considered green.
I have not looked in to weight but i expect the E trucks are going to have a higher weight over all due to the batterys and that will bring up problems. You run the risk of been to heavy for a bridge under full load and on hot days could be enough to start to damage the road and if i recall even concrete can start to warp.
Another option is what Tesla is aiming for - 500 miles range and 1000kWh of batteries. Not a new type of battery, just lots of batteries. This will work, it's just very expensive. The battery pack alone will be $150k.
A third option is more logistical - move long haul stuff to trains. It's difficult to manage 3 trips (source to train, train, train to destination), but trains are very energy efficient.
Is that 0.5miles loaded or unloaded as that will have a massive effect on over range. I would like to know if that takes in to account what else the truck might have to run as well turning on the heating eats a lot more power than people think. If we look at refrigerated lorries how much of a drain would take add and cut in to the range?
The cost is going to be a massive factor you can buy a new ICE for around 100k give or take. The E Truck has to be in that price range the Tesla 500m truck right away is unlikely to be under 200k due to the battery unit. If we look at second hand you can get them as cheap as around 15-20k.
Then we have the fire risk i am not sure if you have seen the E bus fire that is quite a risk to take in to account.
The charge time lets keep it at an hour for now if you time it for when the driver has to rest works well as long as there is a charge point around to use. The problem comes when the forced break timer pop up and you are not close enough to one as it will then cut in to delivery time.
Its clearly going to happen but i just do not think we have the range and have them be affordable in the time frame needed to make this work.
I think apples-to-apples, an ICE truck like this one is going to run more like $150k. Second hand, you'd never want to buy a truck that cheap, because maintenance costs will kill you. My family runs a trucking business - when they are that cheap you end up spending $30k+ to put a new engine and transmission in them, and it's a constant struggle. My family learned to avoid that, because in addition to the expense of repairs, it also means down time for your drivers while you wait - and lost revenue for missing deliveries - and potentially pissed off customers. Older trucks also get worse fuel economy.
Fuel cost is the biggest expense for truckers. Even more than the truck itself. Its come down but its still like $4/gallon now. When you only get 5mpg, that means each mile costs you $0.80 in fuel. In an EV you'll pay half that - in my area I pay $0.10/kWh, so $0.20 per mile. These trucks will run for a million miles, so saving even $0.50/mile means $500k fuel savings over the life of the truck. That means your up front cost can be significantly higher without actually costing you more money in the long run.
I agree with you on the timer situation - it's very common around here to see 20+ big rigs all lined up on the side of the highway near a rest stop because they hit their daily timer. It will be hell for them in an EV if they can't use that time to charge. Rest stops are going to need to see massive upgrades so they can at least get 50kW over night. I know very little about trucking in Europe, though, so I don't know how their timer rules are set up.
Thats good to know you know a lot about trucking as i have worked around dispatch but not with the trucks them selfs just the loading/unloading.
The real reason these legislative actions are taking place is to force the inevitable change, and to make the transition faster and more efficient. With the law in place, people will scramble to install EV chargers and to ramp up EV production and all of those things that they might not normally do without the push.
Brake time is every 4.5 hours for 45mins so as long as you start the trip close to a full charge that should be enough time. The problem is the lack of charge points the UK is quite poor when it comes to this but is getting better seen quite a few pop up. The problem is there needed along the Motorway as that is a place most of our trucks end up when the brake timer hits.