Edit IV: It appears the feature has been rolled back from the subreddit, and a few others I checked. We will stay tuned for an official announcement by the Admins, but it looks like we have been successful. And now confirmed by the admins. Thank you everyone for your support over the last 12 hours.
Edit II: This hit all over night. If you are just seeing our community for the first time, before posting! To see the kind of content produced here, check out our weekly roundup .
Edit: I appreciate the irony of posting about the Admins doing something shitty, and then getting gilded for it, but I have plenty of creddits as it is, so please consider donating a like amount to a favorite charity instead. Thanks!
Over a year ago, the Admins rolled out chat rooms. It was on an opt-in basis, allowing moderators to decide whether their communities would have them or not. We were told we would always have this control.
Today, that promise was broken, and in the worst way possible. With no forewarning, and not in the normal channels where such information is announced to mods, the Admins rolled out chat rooms on all subreddits, even those which have purposefully kept chatrooms disabled for various reasons, be it simply a lack of interest, viewing them as not fitting the community vision, or in other cases, covering subject matter they simply don't believe to be appropriate for chat rooms.
But these chat rooms are being done as an end-around of those promises, and entirely without oversight of the moderators whose communities they are being associated with. At the top of our subreddit is an invitation to "Find people in /r/AskHistorians who want to chat". This is false advertising though. The presentation by the Admins implies that the chat rooms are affiliated with our subreddit, which is in no way true.
They are not run according to our rules, whether those for a normal submission, or the more light-hearted META threads. We have no ability whatsoever to moderate them, and in fact, it is a de facto unmoderated space entirely, as the Admins have made clear that they will be moderating these chat rooms, which is troubling when it can sometimes take over a week to get a response on a report filed with them.
We unfortunately have very few tools available to us to protest, but we certainly refuse to abide quietly by this unwanted and unwelcome intrusion into the space we have worked to build. As such, we are using one of the few measures which is available to us, and will be turning the subreddit private for one hour at 8:30 PM EDT.
As Moderators, we are unpaid volunteers who work to build a community which reflects our values and vision. In the past, we have always been promised control over shaping that community by the site Admins, and despite missteps at points, it is a promise we have trusted. Clearly we were wrong to do so, as this has broken that trust in a far worse way than any previous undesired feature the Admins have thrust upon us, lacking any control or say in its existence, even as it seeks to leverage the unique community we have spent many years building up.
We deeply thank our community members for their understanding of the decision we have taken here, and for everything they have done to help shape this community as it has grown over the years.
We love you, mods Thank you for always being diligent, helpful, honest, and clear. This well reasoned communication shows the same thoughtfulness and foresight you bring to everything you do in this sub and we stand behind you. Cheers.
It's a great example of how versatile Reddit as a platform can be. You can contrast /r/AskHistorians, which shows what you can do if you take the subject very seriously and enforce strict moderation, with various meme subreddits or subs devoted to things like videos of animals and TV shows where the moderation varies greatly in criteria and strictness. That's not to say one is better than the other, they just serve very different purposes and it's cool that a single website enables all of it. Of course that makes it more frustrating when the admins do things like this.
This is not a permanent decision by any means. It will be returned to visible for all users one hour from the start, 9:30 PM EDT, but this is one of the very few means available to us to stress to the Admins how seriously we take this, and how deeply troubled we are by what they are doing.
I agree with the furry guy, even though it is significant I don't know if a lot is going to happen if only this community goes dark for such low period of time.
Something I really appreciate beyond the strictness of the moderation is how consistent it is. I know what to expect coming into this subreddit and rarely, if ever, do I see content or moderation practices that are out of place.
And that of course blows past the issue of what the rules for them even are, as they aren't actually part of the sub advertised on.
Well, they do, but it is a boiler plate response which doesn't tell you what report they are responding to, so magical might not be the best description, lol. Literally can't know which ones they act on and which they don't.
Correct. Mods can't mod it. Admins in theory are modding it, but when I make reports to the Admins for issues that are within their purview, it can take several days to get a response, sometimes more. I have no faith that moderation in these rooms would be anywhere close to real time, or even happening within a relevant time span.
As stated elsewhere, we are starting with a short, symbolic action. We don't want our users to be caught as pawns in the middle of this. Hopefully the Admins will respond here or in ModSupport, and we'll see what happens from there depending on what we hear.
In the end though, that balance is very important. Going dark sends a message, but hurts users who agree with that message all the same.
We can't. As noted, Mods have no control over these spaces, which is part of the issue. It is separate from the dedicated chat rooms created by mods for their communities which they can moderate. The Admins were clear in their own responses that Mods don't mod these. The Admins in theory mod them, but what that means is practice, who knows...