The nature of Japanese electoral politics further complicates matters and provides opportunities for a Prime Minister to lose his grip on the political power apparatus in the party and country. Whilst the House of Representatives is up for election every four years in full, half of the House of Councillors is elected every three years - and although the electoral boundaries of the House of Councillors broadly favoured the LDP, unlike the lower house electoral system that made it easy for the LDP to win absolute majorities as long as they could average over 40% of the vote, the system for the House of Councillors made it easier for opposition parties to win seats. In House of Councillors elections the LDP generally won very marginal majorities compared to more substantial ones it could win in the House of Representatives. An LDP Prime Minister was not only chosen on the understanding that his leadership would be reviewed and challenged periodically within the party but also that the electorate would be able to make its verdict on the LDP known in a similarly short period of time.
It is very difficult to point to any one single explanation for why Japanese Prime Ministers serve, on average, for a relatively limited period of time - like most political conventions and phenomena, it is the result of a complex set of factors that have built up to make for an inadvertent (and depending on your perspective, potentially quite unfortunate) political position. The short answer is that Japanese political culture and systems have historically developed in such a way that make Prime Ministers less important to the nuances of governing a nation and which encourage factional infighting and contests for factional supremacy with the ruling party that has won all but two general elections in Japan since and including 1958, combined with a basic constitutional framework that gives unpopular Prime Ministers less breathing room to escape pressure from within their own party ranks.
At the most general and basic level, it is important to understand how the Japanese Prime Minister is selected. Japan is a parliamentary democracy in which the right to form a government is based on who can, to borrow from the British parliamentary tradition, command the confidence of the National Diet of Japan (Parliament). The Diet consists of two different legislative chambers: the House of Representatives and the House of Councillors. Although on paper the two Houses have an equal say in selecting the Prime Minister of Japan, in the event of a disagreement that cannot be resolved, the choice of the House of Representatives triumphs (although on legislation the House of Representatives needs a two-thirds majority to act without the House of Councillors, so a Prime Minister who wishes to effectively legislate needs both chambers to form a stable government). In many parliamentary democracies, the Prime Minister is chosen by the Head of State - in this case the Emperor of Japan - and then remains in office either following a confirmation vote by the national parliament ('positive' parliamentarianism), or as long as they are never explicitly rejected by the national parliament ('negative' parliamentarianism). Japan has a positive parliamentary system but goes one step further than most parliamentary democracies: only the National Diet can nominate someone for Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister must command the support of the House of Representatives. This is significant because it reduces the room for manoeuvre for a single politician trying to cling onto the Premiership after losing the support of much of their party. Many parliamentary democracies experience periods of leadership instability - the UK has gone from having three Prime Ministers in 28 years (1979 - 2007), to four Prime Ministers in 12 years (2007 - 2019). With no fixed terms of office, changing national leader is simply more straight-forward.
Of course, dominance by a single party is by no means a predictor of internal instability in leadership - it can on the contrary be the opposite. The People's Action Party in Singapore and the Barisan National coalition in Malaysia dominated the politics of those respective countries far more overwhelmingly even than the LDP (the PAP still does) but with far less leadership instability. What does make Japan stand out is the nature of its voting system. From 1948 to 1993, the House of Representatives was elected using an unusual system called the Single Non-Transferable Vote or SNTV. Under SNTV, Japanese electors were asked to elect on average between two and five members of the House of Representatives to represent them - but they could vote for only one without the ability to indicate any additional preferences. In other words, candidates for the ruling Liberal Democratic Party - especially in conservative districts where the LDP performed well - had to not only compete with candidates from the opposition parties in Japan to win a seat in the legislature, but with candidates from their own party as well. Even if voters in a district were committed to the LDP there was no guarantee that they would support any single LDP candidate. Japanese elections thus normalised a culture of intra-party competition - unlike in most parliamentary democracies where factional conflicts are resolved prior to the general election, in Japan they could be fought out in the general election. Every LDP politician in the House of Representatives was effectively 'primaried' - as the Americans would say - no matter how prominent or competent they were, at every election.
From here it is likewise important to understand the particular dynamics of Japanese electoral politics historically. From 1955 to 1993, the Japanese government was dominated by a single party - the conservative Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). In this time period the LDP won an absolute majority of seats in the House of Representatives in 9 of the 12 general elections held and on the three occasions it fell short, it was the only party in a position to cobble together the support of enough minor parties to form a government. Even when the LDP was ejected from power for the first time in 1993 - the first time the party won less than 40% of the popular vote - it emerged as the largest party in the House of Representatives, and the broad coalition of opposition parties that formed the government in 1993 was ousted by 1994, with the LDP returning to power as part of a coalition that year. To date in Japanese history the 2009 election, when the now defunct Democratic Party of Japan won a landslide victory in the House of Representatives, is the only time the Japanese voting public have not returned the LDP to be the largest party in the House of Representatives. This single party dominance means that changes in political power in Japan have almost entirely occurred as a result of changes in the factional or personal balance of power of politicians within the LDP, rather than between parties.
Accordingly in contrast to many countries, electoral politics has developed in a much more bottom-up rather than top-down means of organising. Whereas in most parliamentary democracies with a constituency-based system candidates depend on a powerful central party apparatus to direct their needs, under the old SNTV system Japanese politicians could not depend on a party structure to support them unless they were particularly prominent and important to the formation of the next government - and even then the mechanisms in place within the LDP were much weaker than those in most comparable parties around the world. Instead Japanese politicians would frequently depend on the formation of koenkai; groups of local activists and supporters in their district. Part social club and part political organisation, these koenkai would provide candidates with the financial and organisational means to mount an election campaign. Japanese electoral law also tightly regulated the period in which campaigning was limited to less than two weeks of political activity and spending allowances were low (a measure aimed, in part, to make it harder for opposition parties to effectively campaign against the entrenched power of the LDP) which gave further incentive for politicians to build their koenkai up - as a way of shoring up support and de facto campaigning outside of the electoral period. Accordingly, Japanese electoral politics was historically predominated by strong clashes of personalities and factional rather than traditional partisan conflicts (though they were of course also present). Successful Japanese politicians tended to have strong independent power bases of their own and were less dependent upon the higher party structure for their continued influence or privilege; indeed, with an unpopular administration, such dependence could even count against a lawmaker, as voters unhappy with a particular LDP policy or administration could remain loyal to the LDP whilst still voting against local candidates perceived as close to whatever that unpopular thing was.
If you want to get into this in more detail, there are a few English language articles on Japan's political leadership culture you can find online that should be illuminating reads:
However, as sowser's excellent answer focused on SNTV's impact on intraparty competition, I must mention that in one of only 2 countries which uses STV to elect the lower house of their national parliament, Ireland, intraparty competition is a significant feature too. To quote Michael Gallagher in The Politics of Electoral Systems (edited by Michael Gallagher and Paul Mitchell), with specific reference to comparisons to Japan:
Yes - SNTV and STV are fundamentally different systems, and you're right that /u/aspenfrank30 is probably thinking of STV.