First, Indra is a very complicated deity. He is a strongman and a warrior, yes, but also an important celestial and cosmogonic figure (for instance, he tears heaven from earth in the beginning). It's not at all obvious to me that Thor has more in common with Indra than Zeus and Heracles do.
Tyr and Tishtrya share no etymological roots. Tyr is from Dieus Phtr, Father Sky, cognate with Zeus and Jupiter. Tishtrya is probably from a root referring to "the three stars" of Orion's Belt. "Tiri" seems to have actually been a separate god, at some point, but this isn't clear in the sources. Tishtrya has a bunch of different functions in different times and places, and is involved in a cosmic struggle similar to the one of Indra with Vrtra.
As for the Asura-Deva-distinction, this is so different between Zoroastrianism and Vedic religion that it is difficult to draw any general rules at all. I don't know what you really see in common with the Aesir-Vanir distinction; certainly I don't see any obvious shared commonalities that don't exist with, say, the Titan-God distinction in Greek religion.
However, none of the examples you bring up are terribly strong, and the dissimilarity in some cases of Greek and Roman tradition, apart from being affected by our limited source material, can also be attributed to greater interaction with the Near East; Zeus shares many similarities with Canaanite storm deities, for example.
Basically, the earliest primary sources about Norse religion weren't written until the 11th and 12th centuries, several generations after the region Christianized. A crude analogy would be if the only sources about the American Revolution were a handful of books written in the 1890s.
To elaborate on that, while some high-status poetry (i.e. the oldest parts of the Poetic Edda, and some short poems praising kings) likely date to the 10th century, so the end of the Viking Age, they were not recorded in a manuscript until the 1200s. The Prose Edda (likely composed by Snorri Sturluson), which records the majority of the myths we know, dates from the 1220s or so.
1) there's a gap of several centuries, and even though the poems appear to have been passed down faithfully, any interpretation of them at the time of being written down is filtered through a Christian lens. Even Saxo Grammaticus and Adam of Bremen, working much closer to the end of the Viking Age, are both devoutly Christian.
Archaeological and place-name evidence indicates an enormous variety of practices, which causes the leading scholars of the field (such as Terry Gunnell and John Lindow) to refer to Norse paganism is the plural: Old Norse Religions. This is much more descriptive, even though it makes any generalizations about Norse practice difficult, if not impossible.
2) There's a geographic and social bias. Most saga and edda manuscripts were recorded in Iceland, and in fact Icelanders had a reputation of having a better memory than anywhere else (Saxo Grammaticus credits them with this). But, they only remember the stories of the Icelandic or high-status Norwegian variety of Old Norse religion.
3) We need to look carefully at why sources exist. This one matters a whole lot. Mikael Males, at a lecture he gave at the University of Iceland last year, proposed on the basis of a specific linguistic test that Voluspa, the first poem of the Poetic Edda, was composed in the court of Jarl Hakon, likely as a response to Christianity. So, it's an extremely high-status poem, in the royal Norwegian court, plausibly attempting to codify the timeline of a religion that was not codified before.
I wanted to expand a little bit on this idea, with the caveat that I am speaking more widely and not exclusively about Norse religion, because we have the same issue with other pagan traditions (such as Celtic.).
So is there any basis for direct interactions? I would say that the most likely source for diffusion (which the time frame certainly allows for) would be via Balto-Slavic groups, which have loanwords from Indo-Iranian languages, including "Bog" for God and "wayras" for "club" (The Vajra is the cudgel of Indra). The deity Perkunos is also pretty similar to Thor, which suggests that it's possible that there may have been some transmissions of tradition.
Archaeological sources fill in some gaps, and give us more information, but it's like trying to patch a hole in a wall by covering it with a fishing net. there's more holes than there is substance.
A second case is the Prose Edda. Snorri wrote that after his first trip to Norway, where he appears to have found that most skalds of his time were incompetent. So, he meant this book as a guide for skalds, so they'd know appropriate kennings when composing poetry. Even though thirteenth century Norway and Iceland were Christian, it was still acceptable to use pagan stories as basis for praise poetry, because the tradition began in pagan times. They were probably still told because they were entertaining, too. So, he's creating a "definitive edition" of the stories, resolving the contradictions of the oral and (possibly) written sources he had. Notably, he's not trying to present them faithfully; he nearly explicitly says that "other versions of some of these stories are circulating, don't believe them.".
But the other important thing to keep in mind is bias. Many of our sources come from monks, church-educated scholars and while there were undoubtedly those who were sympathetic or at least apathetic to pagan religions, there were equally undoubtedly going to be those who felt strongly that pagan religions, practices and customs were sinful and wrong. Now, how much personal biases affected their writings is still up for debate in scholarship, but there are certainly schools of thought that suggest we should be highly critical of the extent of "un-Christianlike" behaviour in any historical narratives that aren't contemporary with the events they're describing. After all, if you're a Christian monk and you don't want anyone questioning how "bad" it is to be pagan, you might exaggerate a bit to make it worse. It doesn't mean that things weren't based in reality, but how much is fiction and much is factual is a tough question.
The main problem is, as mentioned, chronological distance: sources are at least a few generations removed from when these pagan practices were common, which of course begs the question of how much is accurate and how much is sort of mythologised folk memory.
To follow with a crude analogy, it's sort of like having a militant atheist describe Christianity to someone: are there parts that are factual? Absolutely, but because it isn't their belief system and they feel that it is inherently wrong, their biases about what practices are bad or ridiculous will seep in, even if not explicitly stated.
You may want to check out excellent breakdown of Campbell's methods by u/itsallfolklore for a general critique of how Campbell draws connections between places.
More specific to your question, though, while it is technically possible that the parallels show a common origin, that is something that no evidence outside of these parallels survive for, and 2) relies on cherry-picking the parallels as opposed to the substantial differences between the various myths Campbell discusses. His efforts to outline a fundamental human myth (i.e. one ingrained in every person's psyche) misses all the culturally-contingent details that make myths interesting. Focusing on a small handful of parallels ignores all the differences that tell us more about the two different cultures these myths come from.
Sticking to Norse examples, we have the issue of human sacrifice. Thietmar of Merseburg wrote how Vikings in Zealand, Denmark sacrificed 99 humans at a time, something he had never witnessed and may not have had evidence of. While archaeological evidence has found evidence of human sacrifice in Zealand, they've only found 5 bodies, four of which were children. We also have Adam of Bremen, who wrote of human sacrifices in Uppsala, Sweden. He never witnessed these himself either, and as far as I'm aware there's no archaeological evidence in Uppsala to support human sacrifice. So is this propaganda, or is this factual? Had he heard about the sacrifices in Denmark and extrapolated? Or did he have some knowledge that we no longer have access to? Does the evidence in Zealand prove they were right? Or is this maybe more of an indication of an uncommon practice that was reported and claimed to be more widespread by Christian monks to further their own agenda? It's hard to say.