Unfortunately, societal pressure holding that women's bodies aren't perfect the way they are is much older than the modern world. Here's an expanded version of :
But--so did its removal. Erasmus' Moriae Encomium (Praise of Folly) counts among its fools old women who prepare for their sexual exploits by tweezing their pubic hairs. The implication in that paragraph, particularly as paired with the immediately preceding enumeration of the follies of randy old men, is that they take this action to try to recapture their youthful, sexual days. Erasmus is of course writing satire, as are his contemporaries who ridicule prostitutes for trimming or completely removing The Hair Down There. That makes it hard to say how widespread a practice depilation actually was, on its own. But the common strand among the texts points to a deeply entrenched cultural value on pubic hair/pubic hair removal.
The Internet loves women's hygiene badhistory almost as much as it loves food badhistory, and what to my knowledge is the major scholarly article on body hair in the Middle Ages takes nearly all its evidence about women from the sixteenth century.
That said, for the later Middle Ages, removal of women's body hair--especially pubic hair--is amply discussed in two types of sources: medical texts and satire. That probably means some if not many Western women, or at least middle/upper class women, sought to remove body hair. It definitely suggests there was some discomfort in talking about the idea.
One really interesting piece of evidence is one of the texts in the Trotula, De ornatu mulierum (On Women's Adornment). The Trotula is a group of 12th century texts that medieval writers attributed to a female medical practitioner and author named Trota; Monica Green argues persuasively that "Trota" or another woman did indeed write at least some of the texts and that her influence can be detected behind them all.
Medieval art and literature make it clear that body hair was primarily a sexual symbol, associated as it biologically is with puberty. For men, this was primarily a positive thing. (After all, virility comes from vir, manly-man). Although male beauty was strongly tied to youth, what we might call 'manliness' was less so. For women, things were more complicated. Public hair/body hair did continue to represent unbridled sexuality.
Medical texts from the later Middle Ages offer another set of evidence for the practice of hair removal, although again, the connection between medical texts and actual practice is...frequently contentious. An extra wrinkle here is the importance of Greek and Arabic influence on the later Latin (and through that, the western vernaculars) medical tradition.
Both ancient Greece and the contemporary Islamic world practiced depilation, which is where the social pressure for depilation makes its way back into the western European mainstream. But the emphasis is slightly different in the Islamic and Christian worlds.
De ornatu mulierum discusses depilation in quite a bit of depth--methods, the influence of "Saracen women" on the western practice, and so forth. It's important to note that depilation is THE FIRST subject discussed by this text. Straight off:
He reports that women like to remove all the hair below their heads. While he is quick to say he disapproves, he is equally sure that medical practitioners must be involved or must at least give advice in order that they do it as safely as possible.
Much like the humor/satire writers discussed above, Henri explicitly connects hair removal with the restoration of youth and an attempt to cast a false air of chastity.
In medieval Islam, which is how the tradition of depilation makes its way back into Europe (clothing fashion, hair fashion, and hygiene-type rituals like steam baths were a major point of cultural interaction in the Crusader states), body hair removal was associated with other practices to ensure bodily purity--nail trimming, mustache and beard grooming, circumcision. So there is definitely a sense of spiritual cleanliness to the practice.
Most of the methods are a non-wax version of waxing (quicklime is a common ingredient). And then, because the Trotula is awesome, it goes on to discuss the medieval equivalent of how to heal razor burn. (...Egg whites. No, for real.).
There is not, which has always surprised me. The discussions of menstruation relate to too much, not enough, not at all, and something usually called "pain of the womb" which in context seems rather like cramps to me.
One among many potential cures for these problems might include a suppository or a "sack" tied at front and back that is supposed to cover the vagina and anus. But we shouldn't think of these as a tampon and a pad (or their medieval equivalents). It's very clear that the text's point is that medical aid comes from the substances involved (in the sack; boiled and mashed together and formed into a cone for the suppository).
This is all normative, of course--it's not evidence of actual practice of any specific cures. However, the overall attitude and types of approach do reflect what we know about actual medieval medicine.
But wasn't dipiliation also commonly used as a means to stop the spread of lice among humans? I would think this would be in the medical textbooks as well.
I have yet to come across an author recommend mass head shaving. There is definitely polemical/chronicle lit from the Crusades era in which men’s beards are discusses positively or negatively from a religious/factionsl perspective. Not a word is whispered about lice.
if hair removal were intended to stop the spread of lice, I am quite sure the more appropriate place to speak of hair removal would be shaving people’s heads, and also men’s beards, and also men’s legs.