I mean, when you have a certain percentage of your population evacuated or dead, or just not keeping track; I can see how crime might be down. This is one of those ghoulish statistics like, “Travel down during March of 2020”.
There have been no noticeable changes in the food supply, although it was very difficult in the first few months of the full-fledged invasion. However, it has returned to normal now. It has been difficult to purchase power generators and batteries (pb, li-ion, lifelo4) due to skyrocketing demand.
Russian oligarchs for decades have taken a billion dollar tank maintenance or fuel contract, buy a $100M worth of spray paint for a quick krylon overhaul and put the rest into their yacht in Monaco.
“The country is being invaded by a foreign power and thousands of the citizens have been killed, along with billions of dollars in property destruction, but reported crime is down.”.
One of the really interesting things to witness as an American inside Ukraine during the start of the war was that there was this almost collective realization amongst Ukrainians as they watched the Russian army crippled by corruption, that it is an unsustainable business model.
Had the Russian army been even a shell of what it was said to be, and had Russia not been a result of its systematic ”vranyos”, it could have been a very different outcome.
It's a matter of security. If it weren't for the air raid sirens, rocket shelling, blackouts, and curfew, it would be just a regular, everyday normal life (in the most of the cities).
In regards to the labor market, I am not keeping a close eye on it, but small businesses are definitely in survival mode.
Endurance is probably our greatest strenh. We have a history of being able to get through difficult times, no matter what. Optimism is in our nature, and we know how to support and help each other when things get tough. Humor also plays a key role in our nation's history, we use it to cope with tragedy (keep in mind - our president is ex-comedian too . ).
Ukrainian here. It's not as chaotic as you might think here in Ukraine. You'll still get a ticket for speeding and stuff like that in areas controlled by Ukraine. Taxes are a bit less strict now though, you won't get in trouble if you file your tax records late. Security is a big deal right now, so it's harder to get away with breaking the law.
Ps: backlots sucks but we’re getting use to it. We’ve got saying: “If the end of the world were to come, it would have to be on schedule”. We’ve got the power supply schedule, so it’s way way more convenient to plan your household chores. We're joking that blackouts make Ukrainians more efficient. All critical infrastructure workers are heroes! They fix everything within hours or days, depending on the impact.
Corruption is a parasitic loss on a system. NATO has its own corruption. I spent the first half of the year tracking and trying to speed up the helicopters in particular. The analysis paralysis and bureaucratic hand wringing cost us deeply.
History will judge the hand wringers harshly once time shows what really happened in Ukraine and why.
But Ukrainians have tasted the best parts of Europe for too long now. Once you are a free man, you just can’t go back to being a slave. Death is preferable to being someone else’s subject. The sooner the rest of the world understands this the sooner the corrupt Russian mob model will crumble and stop sending other peoples children to die in a hopeless war against freedom from slavery.