Having paid pet fees for 5 years certainly puts you in a good position to argue that you had prior written permission. If they're going to argue that your pets weren't allowed, then you'd be in a good position to demand your pet fees back.
Figure up what it would cost you to move, add in a full refund of your deposit, and add 25-50% more for the general hassle of moving, and make that your counter offer. Don't be afraid if it's 10 times their initial offer. They only made that lowball offer because they thought you wouldn't know your rights, and they could take advantage of you. The ball's in your court now, so make them an offer. Be ready to give back some of the 25-50% extra, but don't go below your moving costs plus deposit. They have the money to buy a building, so they can come up with enough to buy you out.
The texts back and forth stating you were allowed to have pets count as "prior written consent". Save that evidence. It sounds like you've also got the word of the previous property manager and landlord that pets were allowed.
You could counter-offer on the amount you're willing to take to move, because having such a hostile landlord is no fun.
Yes, give them a proper counter offer. If they are not idiots, they know full well that a very bad tenant/landlord relationship is extremely ripe to make both lives utter hell, and will be happy to take you up on it.
Paying, say, 5 grand to make it all go away in only 6 months instead of hostilities for the remainder of the lease, sounds extremely reasonable.
Additionally if the unit being vacant was in the terms of the purchasing agreement for the house the current owner (not the new owner) may be willing to pay more than that, as he would face legal repercussions likely in the 10's of thousands of dollars for not delivery the property per the terms of the agreement. You have every legal right to live there and your prior communications regarding pets should be enough proof that you did not violate your lease as you were acting in good faith.
Asking for enough money to cover the cost of moving, two weeks wages, and the full and complete return of your deposit, as well as the cost of the new security deposit, and a excellent reference would be a good place to start, and likely cheaper for the current owner than the sale falling through.
The terms of your lease state you must have permission to have pets, the fact your past property managers were aware of the pets and you paid the pet fee since signing your new lease should qualify as written consent or at the very least if it goes to court the judge should rule with you that them accepting the pet-fee constituted a de facto consent on the pets living there. The terms of the lease do not reset when the property changes ownership nor do prior permissions reset.