Respectfully, the premise of the question assumes a degree of control, power, and right over Hong Kong and the New Territories which the United Kingdom did not have. If anything, the 50-year transition was a concession from the PRC, not the UK.
It is first important to understand the basis of the UK claim to Hong Kong. The initial cessions, which are enshrined in a set of nineteenth-century treaties from the post-opium war period, covered only the island of Hong Kong (1842) and parts of Kowloon Peninsula (1860). The third region of Hong Kong, called the New Territories, was leased to the British in 1898 for 99 years. When folks from the west think about Hong Kong the city, they're mostly thinking of the Island and Kowloon, which is where Britain's claim was the strongest. But the New Territories contained a substantial amount of Hong Kong's core infrastructure, and so the expiration of the lease in 1997 gave China quite a bit of leverage.
The cession of Hong Kong was not politically neutral in 1972, which is when the PRC joined the UN. In fact, they very quickly sent a letter to the UN special committee on colonialism asserting sovereignty over Hong Kong. Over the next decade, the PRC began laying the groundwork for reclaiming not only the New Territories but all of Hong Kong (and Macau, for what it's worth), culminating in formal talks between the Deng and Thatcher governments in 1982.
The Thatcher government initially wanted to maintain administrative control over HK while ceding sovereignty to the PRC. According to Robert Cottrell, who has written a book on the negotiations, Deng suggested that such an arrangement would simply recapitulate the colonialist history that the PRC was trying to undo. Instead, the PRC proposed that the UK cede all claims to Hong Kong, Kowloon, and the New Territories once the NT lease expired in 1997. Hong Kong would become a "special administrative zone," and the PRC would create policies that ensured HK's "stability and prosperity" (ensuring "stability and prosperity" was language the British used in support of their bid for administrative control). Deng also put a clock on negotiations: if the PRC and UK government did not come to an agreement within two years, China would unilaterally decide the fate of Hong Kong.
Quite honestly, the UK didn't have room to negotiate. Hong Kong Island and Kowloon weren't sustainable without the New Territories, and the UK didn't have a legitimate claim under international law to extend its lease without Chinese consent. Moreover, there wasn't much the UK could do to stop China from simply seizing Hong Kong by force, and a war to preserve a colonial anachronism in the 1980s would have been a difficult proposition, even against the communist government in China. What the UK could do, however, was foment dissent, disorder, and discord in Hong Kong, especially concerning democracy and civil rights. It could also attempt to weaken international trade. It could try to repatriate British businesses or citizens. But doing any of that would come at a significant cost, especially for the UK's substantial finance and trade interests in Hong Kong.
Is it true the British only started implementing democratic policies like giving voting rights to the indigenous HK population to spite China after the return of HK became an inevitability?