This is well beyond free Internet legal advice. Your cousin needs a divorce lawyer, and her husband needs an immigration lawyer.
It is possible that if your cousin's husband did not get divorced, that his marriage to your cousin is void, and she can get an "annulment" instead of a divorce. Unfortunately those are a little more expensive and complicated, but a divorce attorney can still advise her on it.
If she lives in the US, he really doesn't have a say in whether or not he "gives" her a divorce. I understand she probably wants a drama-free no-fault uncontested divorce, but that's not going to happen.
It's very likely that he's going to fail in his attempt to get a green card, having entered into two fraudulent marriages. Your cousin should focus on her own safety and financial stability.
For immigration fraud, she can report the marriage fraud (her own) to USCIS using their here. She can also call USCIS. The fact her spouse has not lived with her throughout the marriage and continues to stonewall it will be pretty damning.
Was he actually divorced legally from the first woman? If not, his marriage to your cousin is invalid and any grounds he had for his Notice of Intent to Deny no longer remains valid. If she hasn't, your cousin needs to confirm he was properly divorced before the marriage.
Your cousin should immediately send a letter to USCIS with the immigration case number and her husband's A-number/green card number and withdraw her petition for an I-751 (Petition to Remove the Conditions of Permanent Residence) if it hasn't already been approved. Even if it has, she needs to take steps to protect herself, showing she entered the marriage in good faith but the foreign-born spouse did not. She can submit any letters to USCIS telling them her husband isn't living with her as a spouse and he fraudulently entered the marriage and deceived her.
For her marriage, she needs a competent family law attorney. Her husband cannot refuse her a divorce. Depending on her state, she will need to meet specific criteria, which usually involves living separately for a given period (1 year+). A capable attorney will represent her interests in court, and even if her husband isn't cooperative, obtain a divorce.
If she's being abused, your cousin should reach out to a local domestic violence shelter or hotline. You don't say where she is located, but a local shelter will be able to put her in touch with resources to assist her, including contacts in the legal profession, therapists, and more.
In my state (and others) there are legal aid clinics through the county if your cousin cannot afford a lawyer. If she attends one she might be able to receive some advice.
Also calling the state's bar association and asking for referrals to lawyers who specialize in stuff like this might help her.