It is worth noting at least, however, that we have a few actual evidence of improving the education level of local priests towards the end of the Middle Ages, in spite of repeated criticism. In the bishopric of Norwich, England, only 8% (12/158) of priests had had any university degree between 1370 and 1449, but this rate was drastically increasing first to 32% (32/71 between 1450-1499), and then, to 42% (25/60 between 1500-1532) in the eve of the Reformation, as universities and other educational institutions proliferated in Later Medieval Europe (Bernard 2012: 72f.).
took, because of their ignorance, the right of saying mass' (Lárentíus saga, Chap. 19 (A), í: ÍF VII: 273-75. Translation is taken from , with a little modification mainly on the spelling of proper names).
In short, these two were extreme stereotypes, and the reality must have been somewhere in the middle and differed across Latin Christendom, though the latter might have perhaps been a bit closer to the reality.
Historians since 1980s tend to see Lateran IV as a real turning point of [medieval] Christianity, from a view point of the church's more active involvement with the pastoral care of parish congregation. Facing mendicants as their new rivals to take care of the soul and salvation of the lay people, the secular clergies were then also expected to take this responsibility much more seriously than before, such as the lay peoples' obligation of annual confession to the priest (Canon 21) and regular preaching to the parishoners on Sunday.
As seen in Canon 27, it was incorporated in the bishop's (almost new) duty to ensure the quality control of the local clergy almost everywhere in Latin Christendom. On the other hand, the new norm is one thing, and how to implement this norm was another matter.
The following examples are from very different regions in the 13th and 14th century to implement such a reform.
The first text is taken from the life (saga) of Bishop Lárentíus Kálfsson of Hólar, northern Iceland (d. 1331), and the passages in question narrates the inspection of the local Icelandic clergy's Latin command on behalf of the Norwegian archbishop, allegedly conducted in about 1307 (long before his consecration to the bishop in 1324):
Poor Latin competence of Priest Eilífr here was certainly not the only case in whole the bishopric of southern Iceland (Skálholt), but clearly not the norm among the local clergy.
Without the examination of the visiting commissioners (either from the archbishop or the bishop) like Lárentíus, it would be not so likely that his poor Latin performance was revealed. Bishops (and archbishops as well ) in post-Lateran IV medieval Europe introduced such several new measure to examine the qualification of priests as caretakers of parishoners' soul. While Norwegian archbishop couldn't observe the requirement of regular visitation across oversea suffragan dioceses in person as stipulated in the canon law, he nevertheless sent visitators to the North Atlantic Isles to examine the local clergy there.
Concerning the parishes in medieval Scandinavia, the Norwegian provincial statute from the early 14th century stipulates that every priest had to have a liturgical handbook (manuale), and he was expected to bring it to the annual episcopal synod (yearly meeting of priests within individual bishoprics), together with the garment(s) of the clergy to be examined. If he lost them, he had to pay the fine in accordance with the number of lost items (Lysaker trans. 1991: 14; Nedkvitne 2001: 77).
The third (last) part constituted to answer conjugations of some Latin words (verbs and nouns as well) often found in Church Latin texts (Davies 2010: 109f.).
Aberth, John (eds.). The Black Death, The Great Mortality of 1348-1350: A Brief History with Documents. 2nd ed. Boston: Bedford, 2017.
Then, would there little room to admit Poor Father Roche (as narrated in Novel Domesday book) in real 14th century England? In fact, there would be several contributing factors to make loopholes to make the illiterate person de facto care taker of souls across Europe?
I cite another example that the bishop took much heed to the literacy of newly ordained priest, from the register of Archbishop Eudes Rigard of Rouen (d. 1275). This archbishop indeed recorded his daily works as archbishops in 21 years, and one of such entries narrates the contents of the exam by Archbishop Eudes himself to the candidate to the church of Ancourt, named Guillaume de Vardes:
The first part of the exam constituted a simple word by word translation from Latin to Spoken Language (French): salus to 'salvation', quadragesimo to 'of 40 days [of Fasting?]', redemptor noster to 'our redeeming father' like that, and Guillaume passed this part without difficulty.
The second part of the exam was to summarize the meaning of the passage from Latin into French, and the candidate had some difficulty in this process.
Davies notes the possibility that Eudes perhaps required a higher standard of literacy to his aspirant clergy than his colleagues (a least one case of Nicholas Quesnel in 1260 Eudes rejected the application due to his many mistakes in Latin conjugations), but generally speaking, it is difficult to calculate the 'admittance rate' of such candidates on Latin competence solely on the extant evidence.
Swanson also comments on this topic as following: 'The danger with these source is that, because complaints are expected, they are noticed: it is also notable that serious complaints are generally few. Only failings - alleged, not necessarily real fault - are reported; there are no appraisals of clerics who were doing their jobs properly' (Swanson 1994: 54).
The third factor is the discrepancy of titular office-benefice holders (rectors) and those who engaged in the pastoral care on real field (vicars) on behalf of these titular priests. The latter category of clergy were, so to speak, 'substitute' to the rectors, but the practice of hiring them for the actual pastoral care tended to get more common in course of the 14th century, as the grant of the ecclesiastical benefice (income from the priest office like the canons of the cathedral or even the priest office of the rich parish) by higher authority like the Avignon Papacy became increasingly popular.
Many of such vicars came from the milieu of peasant, and they often spent whole of their life in the local community (without much higher education and income) where they had born in (Swanson 2015: 37).
Bernard, G. W. The Late Medieval English Church: Vitality and Vulnerability before the Break with Rome. New Haven: Yale UP, 2012.
First of all, the number and availability of universities had been quite limited (about a dozen in ca. 1300) before the Black Death. The foundation of the university of Prague just before the arrival of the Black Death paved the way to the proliferation of universities in German speaking area as well as Central Europe toward the end of the Middle Ages. In this regard, some scholars even say that English priests in fact had better change to get educated since England had Oxford and Cambridge, both founded in the early 13th century. On the other hand, other educational institutions were still also available across the 14th century Europe: Above-mentioned Lárentíus had taught Latin in three old-style monastic schools in Iceland before his consecration, and Lárentíus himself had studied abroad in the cathedral school of Trondheim, Norway. Mendicant orders and Cistercians founded their own higher education schools as well. It is also worth noting that not all the students completed their study with the degree - many medieval students also only temporary registered courses and left without degree. The job of local clergy (as well as teacher of some elementary educations) was open also to such not so traditional 'intellectuals' in Later Middle Ages, as Jacques Verger emphasizes (Verger 2000).
Unfortunately, the alleged relationship between the vernacular (Old Norse) and Latin literacy seemed not to be so simple even within medieval Iceland.
I'm curious (not being a Nordicist). ISTR from Clanchy -- I think, it's been a while since my medieval literacy seminar -- that Iceland had really high rates of vernacular literacy compared with the rest of Western Europe. Did this have any relation with the quality of the clergy's literacy in Latin in comparison with the rest of western Christendom?
The possible contribution of Latin work to the rise of vernacular historical writings and literature in medieval Iceland as well as wider Scandinavia has often got not so due attention especially from non-specialists. It is generally said that Sæmundr fróði wrote the lost history of the kings of Norway probably in Latin, and two of three early historical writings from 12th century West Norse (Iceland and Norway) area, namely Anonymous Historia Norvegie (usually dated to the 3rd quarter of the 12th century) and Historia de Antiquitate Regum Norwagiensium (before 1188), are certainly written in Latin and became the source of later well-known kings' saga compilation like Snorri Sturluson's Heimskringla.
The saga of St. Jón also narrates the foundation of the cathedral school of Hólar in northern Iceland in the first decades of the 12th century, and the protagonist of the work, Bishop Jón Ogmundarson of Hólar (d. 1121) is said to discourage one of his young pupils, Klöngr Þorsteinsson (future Bishop of Skálholt), to read Ovid's work since 'it includes many episodes (songs?) of love' without his permission (Jóns saga ins helga, Chap. 8, í: IF XV-2: 211f.; Cf. Nedkvitne 2001: 81).
Lysaker, Tryvge (overs.). Erkebiskop Eilifs tredje statutt. Trondheim: Nidaros Domkirkes Restaureringsarbeiders Forlag, 1991.
Nedkvitne, Arnved. 'Literacy'. In: Norden og Europe i middelalderen: Rapporter til Det 24. Nordiske historikermøde, 1, red. Per Ingesman, pp. 65-92. Århus: Jysk Selskab for Historie, 2001.