The harsher response to the Prague Spring was precisely because of the violence of the Hungarian Revolution, despite the fact that that revolution was ultimately suppressed. 1956 had shown the Soviet leadership that the communist regimes of the Eastern Bloc were still vulnerable to revolution and that those revolutions could turn violent and have consequences for the communists even if they failed. Even though the reform movement in Czechoslovakia wasn't turning violent, Brezhnev's reflexive response was to stamp it out to avoid another Hungary.
Some historians refer to a "Hungarian Syndrome" or "Hungarian Complex" among Soviet leaders, particularly Yuri Andropov (later head of the KGB and General Secretary of the CPSU), who was the Soviet ambassador to Hungary in 1956 and saw Hungarian secret policemen (AVH) hanged from lampposts by the revolutionaries. Andropov played a leading role in convincing Khrushchev to intervene in Hungary, and was subsequently one of the leading forces behind the scenes who pushed Brezhnev to move decisively to suppress the nascent revolution in Czechoslovakia, even though it was more peaceful than the Hungarian Revolution had been. Andropov was also responsible for the political repression that followed the Prague Spring (known as the Normalization).
The Soviet leaders were also afraid that reform movements in Eastern Europe could weaken those communist regimes and move them away from Soviet domination, which would in turn (in the Soviets' estimation) weaken the bulwark that the Eastern Bloc provided against the West. While the Soviets were initially willing to negotiate with the new Czechoslovak government, with the understanding that they were still committed to communism, the hardliners within the regime (particularly Andropov) pushed for a more aggressive response, which Brezhnev ultimately supported.
The Soviet and supporting Warsaw Pact forces (from Poland, Hungary, and Bulgaria; Romania and Albania refused to participate) had a significant numerical advantage, as well as some element of surprise (since the Czechoslovak leadership believed the negotiations had successfully convinced the Soviets not to invade and made no defensive preparations), ultimately the main reason for their success was the fact that the Czechoslovak leadership decided not to respond in kind and resist the invasion. The memory of the Hungarian Revolution also affected their decision-making, because they wanted to avoid the bloodshed that had occurred in Hungary.
The harsh Soviet reaction to the Prague Spring was the beginning of the Brezhnev Doctrine, which supported the use of force to maintain communist rule in the countries within the Soviet sphere of influence. The most notable example aside from Czechoslovakia was the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, which led to the disastrous ten-year war there. However, the Soviets didn't respond with force to the Polish political crisis that stemmed from the emergence of the Solidarity trade union in 1980, which more or less marked the end of the Brezhnev Doctrine, even though the war in Afghanistan continued for the rest of the decade, well after Brezhnev's death in 1982.
Paul Lendvai, One Day that Shook the Communist World: The 1956 Hungarian Uprising and its Legacy (Princeton UP, 2008).
Gunter Bischof, et al., The Prague Spring and the Warsaw Pact Invasion of Czechoslovakia (Lexinon, 2010).
Was the Brezhnev Doctrine really a novel policy stance in the USSR, or was it just a demonstrated application of an existing stance which started long before 1968? Throughout the Cold War, it was obvious the Soviets would not tolerate breakaway states or major political dissent within the Eastern Bloc - evidenced by events such as in Hungary and the Berlin Wall. Or perhaps there was nuance in what the Doctrine enabled - such as legitimizing formal, open, massive military interventions, whereas prior to that (e.g. Hungary) such actions would need to be framed as internal "police actions" or swept under the rug / blown off as an exaggeration / Western propaganda?
Obviously the idea of interventionism in support of Soviet-aligned communist regimes wasn't completely novel, since the Soviet Union had repressed the revolution in Hungary well before Brezhnev came to power, but it wasn't consolidated as a principle of Soviet foreign policy toward other communist regimes prior to 1968. Ouimet notes that 1968 pushed Brezhnev toward greater enforcement of political, ideological, and economic alignment with the Soviet line in Eastern Europe. Hungary set the initial precedent, but the Prague Spring was the real turning point, and made it pretty clear to the other leaders within the Eastern Bloc that it was in their best interests to fall in line. Nobody was going to be as naïve as the Czechoslovak government had been prior to the invasion.
That said, there were cases where communist leaders defied the Soviets without incurring a military intervention. Romania under Nicolae Ceaușescu was a notable "maverick" within the Eastern Bloc and pursued a relatively independent line, although it should be noted that this deviation wasn't as threatening to the Soviets, since Ceaușescu maintained a hardline approach that didn't allow for threats to communist authority, unlike the liberalizing movements in Hungary and Czechoslovakia. Ceaușescu was initially viewed as a reformer and not only refused to participate in the invasion of Czechoslovakia, but gave a famous speech condemning the invasion on 21 August 1968. However, in the 1970s, the prospect of reform in Romania proved to be an illusion, and from then on, Ceaușescu pursued a quasi-Stalinist approach tinged with nationalistic elements (referred to by historians as "national communism"). Albania under Enver Hoxha not only refused to participate in the invasion but withdrew from the Warsaw Pact altogether, but relations between Albania and the Soviets had been tense since the Khrushchev era because Hoxha had opposed de-Stalinization.