What matters here is the truth of whether you owe landlord money or not under the terms of your lease agreement.
If the mistake here is landlord's in seeking money you're not obligated to pay under the lease you should go to court ready to argue and demonstrate that. Bring the lease and canceled checks showing you fulfilled it.
If the mistake here is yours in relying on credits to the account you knew to be wrong, then you should cure your default and see if that can satisfy landlord (or at the very least make it unnecessary for landlord to take judgment).
The last time I was in their office (when the account first showed the weird charges) I showed them proof of my payments, on time every single month for the full amount as stipulated by my lease, and we discussed the credits issued. They were partially from the deposit I had to give with my application and partially from their own mistake of charging my card over the course of a few months. She knew this was the case because she mentioned they had to go in and make note of it every month because it had thrown some numbers off. This is why she told me it would be fixed as soon as possible and I didn't need to worry about it.
Again, if you go into court showing you've complied with the lease, you should prevail. If you're in some other situation things get messy.
That's the issue here. That I don't owe anything. The partial rent they're charging was already paid. It has already been established by them that the account credit was not an error and was from their own end charging my card after my application submitted. This is why they're not charging me for the first month I moved in and only for a % of that second month.
A majority of the amount that is now being disputed isn't rent I owe, it is rent, fees, and late fees for rent from two months before my lease was even supposed to start.
Part of it was from the deposit I had to give and the rest was added without any explanation so the person I signed with said they must have been charging my card over time. My application was submitted nearly 5 months before moving in so it would have been several charges over a course of 20 weeks.