Your teacher has it pretty close, the Puritans were basically religious extremists, but there were also non Puritan colonists mixed in with no particular religious zeal. It got pretty contentious between the "Puritans" and the "Strangers" as they came to be called.
One thing I would say is that the teacher is not correct in that they are getting much of the timeline incorrect. The Puritan "Great Migration" to the Massachusetts Bay Colony took place in the 1630s, much of it specifically caused by the elevation of William Laud to the Archbishropic of Canterbury in 1633, and his support for Charles' I religious reforms, which were seen as "High Church" (ie, too similar to Catholicism). This immigration totaled some 13,000 to 21,000 people and ended fairly abruptly in the early 1640s, with the opening of the Long Parliament and the political crisis resulting in the English Civil Wars. Anyway, these emigrants (many of whom returned to England during the Civil Wars) did not represent a majority of Puritans. They didn't even represent a majority of Puritans who emigrated, as about twice as many moved to Barbados in the Caribbean in this time period as those settling in Massachusetts Bay.
Which is a long way to say: this was more than a generation before the Restoration of 1660 (which by the way was not a return to "secular" life - religion was still very important, it's just that the dimensions of that officially-approved religious life changed with Charles II's return). By the 1660s, the Massachusetts Bay Colony (as well as the colonies of Plymouth, Rhode Island, and Connecticut, and settlements in what is now New Hampshire and Maine) were more or less self-governing, and already had tense relationships with royal authority that went on for years. These tensions culminated in the revocation of all the colony charters and their merging into a single Dominion of New England (along with New York and the New Jerseys) in 1686. The royal governor was overthrown and arrested in Boston in 1689 (as an aftershock of the Glorious Revolution, and concurrently with Leisler's Rebellion in New York), and the separate colonies were re-established as royal colonies (rather than chartered corporate colonies) at that point. I'd also say that it was less that Massachusetts Bay "absorbed" Plymouth and more that they were combined into one colony in this reorganization.
A final note - the authorities in Massachusetts Bay Colony absolutely did persecute people for their beliefs. But I wouldn't say that was "anyone who refuses to adhere to their lifestyle" in the sense of people who weren't religiously strict enough - as the linked answer noted, a large proportion of the colony population didn't actually belong to the Church. Many of those who were actually persecuted belonged to other religious groups that were seen as more radical than the Puritan movement, and often were much more on the fringes of society, both in New England and Old. Anne Hutchinson and the "Antinomians", Roger Williams and the Baptists, and the Quakers were particular examples.