In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Problem is even with how blue states like NY and California are, there are still rural and suburban areas which are extremely conservative. Districts in those areas going to tend to vote republican, they’re just a minority of the districts and have smaller populations often times.
I don’t think a single seat in California that was red but was competitive, like the ones talked about here, are from districts which have been majority blue at all in recent history. I was watching the last few races heavily and all 3-4 of the most competitive California races were R+5 or so. Not super red and can still occasionally get a blue win, but to think not getting it, in a midterm election where there is significant opposition party bias in an already red leaning district is somehow the fault of democrats makes no sense.
Sometimes it is, and I’m not sure of the specifics for each individual race, but to call it a systemic issue among the California races this year is just flat out BS.
I blame NY for flipping 4 seats from democrat to Republican. That would be the majority right there. California and ny dem leadership need to see how important it is that they do things to keep their states voting heavily blue to try to counter the gerrymandering impact from states like Florida and Texas.
4 seats is still not the majority, of the 4 seats republicans flipped in NY 3 of them voted for trump in 2016 and 2020 but narrowly went to Dems in 2020. This is during a midterm year with significant Republican advantage and yet the house majority was held to only a few seats while statistics suggest it should have been at least a 10-20 seat majority.
If you truly believe this is somehow a failure on the NY Dems just not caring then you’re just looking for someone to blame for losing. This is like losing a basketball game by 5 points when the seasonal performance put you down by 20 by the half, then blaming your coach for losing you the game when he’s likely the only reason it was remotely that close in the first place.