I believe the goal is to get russia to stop invading ukraine and withdraw its troops. Sure the war would possibly be over sooner if no nations provided support. Just like if russia invaded Croatia, the war would be over pretty quick if no nations provided support for Croatia.
The goal is quite simple: Stop Russia from invading sovereign states like Ukraine, Georgia, Chechnya, Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria, and many more.
The ultimate goal should be to remove billionaire dictators from ruling countries for personal profit.
We live in a time where invading each other is not needed- this war, along with admittedly many others from the West as well, isn’t necessary.
so all the other countries that make up 'the west', and the conflicts they start or are involved in, don't matter? why is that exactly,i am ever so curious?
I mean… the west was perfectly fine with Serbia trying to take over Croatia in the 90s (in case you weren’t alive then) Just saying.
But in all realities when Russia finally does use Nukes because of what the West is doing (Ukraine wants to bomb Moscow and has advocated for a Nuclear strike on Moscow). They have also tried to escalate things by bombing Poland.
I love how some Americans are ignorant of the Cold War and just after. Let alone Ukraine and how they sided in WW2 and never seemed to change course after the Cold War.
I’m not saying they shouldn’t has some rights… but they didn’t want to join NATO decades ago. Now they want to start Nuclear War. I don’t know if I’m okay with sending plenty of weapons to a power that is actively advocating for Nuclear strikes on another country and were before the invasion.
would that be the same ukraine that gave up nukes for regional security. The same one that gave up nukes so that countries including RUSSIA would guarantee its security?
where do you get your ideas from on why Russia would finally use nukes..All 'the wests' fault right comrade?
After Georgia, the stunt they pulled 2014, pretty open plans they had to take Moldova after their expected glorious win in Ukraine and near constand invoking of a great Russian Empire that includes a lot of countrys that simply dont want to be part of that shit show its clear they wont stopp If they dont fail hard in Ukraine now.
The only reason it is sometimes seen as more safe if russia collapses into different countrys ist their constant propaganda about war with the west, "liberating" or bombing capital citys of Nato countrys and so one.
The only one that is constantly treathening with nukes is Moscow. And its ist very VERY important for the future safety of all to make clear nuklear weapons are not a Cheat to do win even If the only thing you can do otherwise is to throw bodys and rusty equipment. Every wannabe despot will get ideas.
If you try to brainwash your people to see us as enemy dont be suprised If we lose patience and start to see you as a problem.
The West is helping a Independent country defend itself from a agressor that does crimes again at humanity left and right.