To cover a bit of the “obvious—” pickling has long been a tool for food preservation in the United States. Long before canning because a safe and reliable way to preserve foods, pickling (along with salting, drying, etc) was one of the most reliably safe ways to preserve fresh vegetables. While today pickled cucumbers reign supreme, most vegetables can be safely pickled and preserved several months for consumption. I wrote more about food preservation practices in the 19th century .
Since pickled vegetables were such a common preservation technique, they appear in American cookbooks onwards from the earliest “American” cookbooks we have from the 18th century. The Virginia housewife, an early 1824 example of a “southern” regional cookbook, has a whole chapter on pickling. Likewise, the 1904 cookbook the Blue Grass Cookbook contains a whole chapter on “pickles,” and includes recipes for a whole range of pickled vegetables. Pickled cucumbers are referred to as such, while, for example, a “chopped pickle’ is a range of vegetables that have been pickled.
While both of these texts include recipes for pickled cucumbers, the classic “Dill pickle” owes its heritage to eastern European jewish immigrants who popularized the classic Dill Pickle. Even more than in the US, pickled vegetables were a staple to the eastern European diet, and immigrants continued to make and privilege eastern European pickle flavors. Frequently referenced in oral histories and memories are “sours” and “half sours,” types of pickled cucumbers distinguished by fermentation time. Pickles were fairly popular street foods, and became a staple of Jewish Delis in the city.
There is no source that definitely tells us when pickled cucumbers just became pickles. Community cookbooks, in the early-to mid 20th century, like the 1921 Durham Cook Book, often continued to have a section called “pickles” that included all manner of pickled vegetables. Pickled cucumbers were, largely, still referred to as pickled cucumbers. While it wasn't yet ubiquitous, around this time, the term “pickle” was becoming increasingly associated with pickled cucumbers in the public eye. An excerpt Alfred Kazin’s Walker in the City refers to pickled sours and half sours as Pickles. While this is a recollection of the early 20th century, it was published in 1951. I am pretty confident in my understanding of the research on food preservation, but I could not find a single source that says with any certainty why we call pickled cucumbers pickles. There's a PBS article that take on the question but does not answer it. There’s no real definitive advertising campaign by a pickle company, no seminal sources, just a shifting conception of pickles over the early 20th century that pretty solidly gave way to the term ‘pickle’ being colloquially used to refer to pickled cucumbers by the mid 20th century. There was a 1893 advertising campaign at the Chicago World's Fair where Heinz company had "pickle pins," so while it as clearly legible I've also found sources that postdate it that continue to specify pickled cucumber.
I’d like to be clear that my “answer” is just based of my knowledge of 19th and 20th century cookbooks and food preservation practices, and isn’t something I or anyone else I personally have found has made in a peer reviewed publication. But as sour and half sour pickles, which historically referred to an array of pickled eaters European vegetables but in the US referred mostly to pickled cucumbers made by Jewish immigrant communities, became a popular street food and part of the New York culinary lexicon that was later emulated by processed food companies, “sour and half sour” and “cucumber” was dropped from the name because cucumbers were just the most popular option for a pickled vegetable. Companies, like Heinz, used it to refer to pickled cucumbers, cookbook authors began just calling pickled cucumbers pickles by the 1920s and 30s.
Also, let it be known, I have found no AskHistorian question I've tried to answer more deceptively difficult to answer.
I know this isn't a perfect answer but I hope it helps, and I welcome anyone to tell me what I'm missing!
Idle interest put me down a bit of a rabbit-hole, and I don't think there is a definitive answer, but I think we can at least trace some threads of informed speculation to narrow down on the reason and rough sense when. My first stop was the OED which was mildly useful in pointing to it being an American development, and then the The Cambridge World History of Food helped trace a very general path that the cucumber traveled. Finding Jan Davidson's Pickles: A Global History almost gets us there, but still doesn't quite spell it out.
This is where Davidson gets vague though, and think it lines up well with your own thoughts above, since is points to there not being a clear point of transition, but does very clearly lay out that it was a reflection of preferences and pride. Because cucumbers were almost entirely consumed pickled, and because of the pickling industry of New York, it came together for common reference to them by Americans as simply 'pickles'. It certainly started by the late 18th-century, but the problem then is to say when it had taken over as ubiquitous, since as you well lay out it still wasn't fully the case even entering the 20th century.
What I can offer though to expand on the excellent context you've laid out here is that the cucumber came over to North America with the earliest European invaders, showing up on Hispaniola before 1500, but the Dutch are the most important part of this story, cultivating cucumbers in New Netherland, and that cultivation taken over by the English when they transformed it to New York. Unlike some other things which can be pickled, but are fine not-pickled, cucumbers really weren't that popular at the time raw - they were considered quite bitter [the cultivars you eat today mostly developed in the late 19th century, so don't necessarily reflect how early modern cucumber would taste] and thought to cause indigestion - so pickling was the nearly the only preparation. In volume of production, New York became the pickle[d cucumber] capital of North America.