Yes, new discoveries of "lost" texts from antiquity are still being made. The majority are just fragments, though, and in fact there are vast amounts of known fragments of ancient texts that nobody has translated and/or figured out what text it's a fragment of yet. To begin with, you can check out by /u/Daeres for an overview of how the texts we now know were passed down to us through history.
Adding to that answer, papyrus fragments (from various sources, including the huge collection from Oxyrhynchus) are still a major source of texts previously thought lost, but again, they are mostly fragmentary by their nature. Still, that's nothing to sneeze at - lost poems by Sappho have been found in this way as recently as 2014, for example.
More complete text finds are much rarer, but they still happen - every once in a while someone runs across medieval manuscripts containing copies of texts previously thought lost. For example, , and .
As for the likelihood of discovering any specific text, well, who knows? I really don't know if anyone could say. (edit: it quickly turned out that there are in fact things that could be said about this - check out the great answer by /u/KiwiHellenist !).
Polybius and the Cypria aren't going to be sitting around being anonymous, however. If they were in a complete manuscript, they'd have been identified long ago.
Then, there's been some significant progress made in the last decade or so in regards to recovering texts from sources that were previously considered unreadable. One example of this is palimpsests, parchment manuscripts that have been scraped clean and reused for a new text. In many cases it's been known that an older text was there, but it wasn't possible to read it. Now, however, using various imaging technologies , or at least fragments of it. There have also been in trying to non-destructively recover text fragments from burned papyrus rolls from Herculaneum using CT scans, but as far as I know this has proven to be extremely challenging and hasn't yielded any major breakthroughs yet.
As an addendum to the excellent explanations given by /u/renhanxue and /u/MichaelJTaylorPhD, I'll just add a note on the specific examples you mention, because the likelihood of a lost text turning up varies enormously depending on its genre and date.
First, complete manuscripts that are preserved in libraries -- mostly in Europe -- will not normally yield new lost texts because they are extremely well catalogued, and people have been poring through them for centuries. I don't just mean robust institutions like the Biblioteca Laurenziana or the Bibliothèque nationale: this also applies to archives in eastern Europe and the Asian and African parts of the Mediterranean. The only realistic scenario where a new text is going to turn up is when a known manuscript hasn't been correctly identified, and the author has previously been anonymous; but then someone discovers that it's actually a text by someone well known. This is mostly going to be the case with Christian writings, such as the Augustine that /u/renhanxue mentions, or the 29 homilies by Origen that Marina Molin Pradel discovered in Munich in 2012.
The main other possibility is papyri found at archaeological sites. As both of the previous respondents have pointed out, there have been some major discoveries over the last 120-odd years; but scarcely anything in the way of complete or near-complete texts. The Nag Hammadi corpus and the Dead Sea scrolls are tremendous flukes. We hope they might happen again, but it's the kind of thing that only happens by chance. We can hope for more finds like the Aristotle, but that, too, was a tremendous fluke -- papyrus finds .
And lastly, the selection that's available to be found depends on what people who lived at the archaeological site were reading. Nearly all papyrus finds come from Roman-era Egypt. That means what may turn up depends entirely on the reading habits of Roman-era Egyptians.
And Roman-era Egyptians weren't nearly as interested in lost literary works as you might hope. For the most part, their books were exactly the same texts that have survived to the present. (That's why they survived, after all: they were popular, and there were lots of copies!).
Polybius is a possibility, even if it's only fragments. But the Cypria, alas, is not a realistic hope. I will gladly eat my hat if a papyrus fragment of any cyclic epic poem is ever found. Because no one was interested in them. Even among ancient writers who were interested in the subject, you can count on one hand the ones who actually knew them first-hand: dozens of sources report odd snippets of information about them, but only Herodotus, Aristotle, and Pausanias claim to have actually read any of them. We have thousands of papyrus fragments of Homer, hundreds of Hesiod -- but not a single papyrus fragment of any other pre-classical epic. I'm very much afraid that is not likely to change.
This is great, thank you for providing a much more in-depth answer than I could! I was clearly off the mark with the last sentence in my answer - a lot could be said about the probability of finding these particular texts after all, and I'm very glad to have learned that. .
It varies depending on the type of document it is. If it's a literary work (the rarest kind of document), then any overlap at all with a known text preserved through the mediaeval manuscript tradition will help confirm or correct the mediaeval text. Some, like contracts, are very formulaic, so just two or three words will be enough to form a good idea of the general content.