There are a few well-known insects in Greco-Roman myth, such as the gadfly that plagued poor Io after she was transformed into a cow and the fleas and flies of Aesop's fables. But the only (more or less) mythological source I can think of in which something like a mosquito figures prominently is the poem "Culex," attributed to the great Roman poet Virgil.
The eponymous culex is a "tiny nurseling of the moisture," but probably a gnat rather than a mosquito. It wakes a shepherd by biting him on the eyelid, and so saves him from a poisonous snake. The ungrateful shepherd squashes his savior. That night, however, he is visited by the ghost of the gnat, which criticizes him at lenh. A small sample:
The mosquito has a small, albeit important, role in the Popol Vuh, the sacred text of the Maya-K'iche people from Guatemala.
The dead bug continues in this vein for some time, describing the underworld and its denizens. At last it concludes, rather plaintively:
How would Virgil's intended audience react to this poem? Would they find it humorous? An insightful parable? A tragedy comparable to one involving a wronged/dead human? Did the people of Rome at the time genuinely believe that insects had this level of personhood, even having a soul?
This might not be the sort of myth you were looking for, in the sense that it wasn't devised to explain anything (the whole story was almost certainly invented by the poet to show off his virtuosity). But it is at least an interesting story involving an irritating insect...
It was probably nothing more or less than a poetic fantasy, created to amuse and win patrons. The poem is essentially a parody of epic - the gnat's apparition in the shepherd's dream is meant to recall Achilles' dream of the dead Patroclus in the Iliad. Romans certainly had no qualms about swatting insects.
Culex was a fairly vague noun for any gnat-like insect, and in fact you occasionally see the title of this poem translated as "the mosquito." I only went with the gnat interpretation here because it is traditional. There's nothing in the poem that says the culex is definitively not a mosquito.
And just like that, you taught this guy not only about Roman poetry, but also illuminated my understanding of bug taxonomy. The family Culcidae, (and the Culex genus) aka mosquitoes. TIL.