The bans on meat eating (or perhaps more accurately, the restrictions on meat eating, especially beef) were for two main reasons: (a) to protect cattle for use for traction, and horses for riding, and (b) to avoid killing animals, to act according to Buddhist principles. At least, these were the reasons stated by the lawmakers.
The laws were not absolute. There was generally a loophole that meat consumption, including beef-eating, was allowed for medicinal purposes. Total bans were rare, and did not always cover wild game (and not all wild game when some was protected), and did not always cover all domestic animals.
However, even when meat-eating was allowed, there were social taboos against eating meat, especially beef. This at least reduced ostentatious meat-eating.
There were similar bans/restrictions on meat-eating and beef-eating in Korea, for the same reasons as in Japan: to preserve cattle for traction, and Buddhist non-killing. The bans in Korea and Japan appear to have started at about the same time, during the 6th century AD; Buddhism arrived in Japan shortly after it arrived in Korea. As in Japan, game was often not protected, and the meat of domestic animals, including beef, could be eaten for medicinal purposes. While beef could be - and was - eaten, whether as medicine or otherwise, there were social taboos which reduced consumption.
After the Mongol invasions of Korea, and the submission of Korea to Mongol rule, beef-eating enjoyed a renaissance, and became more acceptable as an upper class food, due to Mongol preferences for beef, mutton, and horse over pork (due to the lack of pig herding on the steppe). However, this had little impact on the food of the majority. Most Koreans ate very little meat, with many farmers eating meat (not including seafood) on only a few occasions during the year (and the meat that was eaten was often considered to be a fortifying medicinal food).
Up to about 150 years ago, Korean and Japanese food were very similar. A typical meal in either country consisted of grain, soup, and some side dishes. The grain was rarely all rice, let alone white rice - much more common was rice mixed with barley or millet, or even a mix of grains without rice. The soup and side dishes would rarely have meat, even for reasonably well-off people, and extremely rarely for poor farmers. I discussed Japanese food in and Korean food at the time was very similar. Modern Korean meat eating only has weak traditional roots. It does owe something to beef-eating in royal cuisine, which as already noted, was partly due to Mongol influence. However, Japanese cuisine meatified long before Korean cuisine, and the colonial period, when Japan ruled Korea, helped drive Korean cuisine towards meat-eating.
Poverty minimised meat-eating in Korea, even when the social taboos against meat-eating were largely gone. At late as 1970, when the Korean economy was recovering from the war, Korean meat consumption was only 5kg per person per year, and was significantly lower just 10 years earlier. Today, Korean meat consumption is about 70kg per person per year, similar to that of Japan.
Japan cuisine did absorb foreign meat-dish recipes. The West was a major source, with Western meat dishes such as hamburger (hambāgu in Japanese, and consisting of a patty served with rice rather than in a bun), curry (adopted from the British), and breaded pork cutlets (tonkatsu) being popular both in home-cooking and eating out.
On the topic of bans not being universally enforced, is there any truth to the idea that consumption of birds was more accepted and that rabbits were counted as birds (using the counter wa 羽 ) as a loophole to allow for eating them?
While chickens had been in Japan since the 1st millennium BC, most birds that appeared on the table were wild game. Chickens were eaten, but the birds that were eaten were often not killed for the table - instead, they were often the losers of cockfights, and old and tough. (The end-of-Edo political police, the Shinsengumi, were notorious chicken (and pork) eaters. Perhaps the image of chicken-on-the-table as fighters made chicken a symbolic food for them.).