In the early period of migration, how insular were Scottish communities in America/Canada, while I know we can say cultural influences still persist, how long might we say such communities maintained a distinctive Scottish identity, as opposed to thinking of their communities more as Americans/Canadians of Scottish descent?
Language is a vital carrier of culture, and can either act as a conduit of culture or a barrier to assimilation. So your question is tied in many respects to the question of language vitality. And this same question, and related issues of cultural distinctiveness and sovereignty, draw attention within the Scottish context as well as in colonial ones.
This is an interesting question and one that I’ve thought about since the beginning of my research. But I need to answer this in relation to the Scottish Gaelic communities who originated in the Highlands specifically, as they have their own distinctive history and trajectory through these issues.
As these communities lost their language through successive generations, they have really lost the cultural foundations of their Gaelic distinctiveness and identity, although there is sometimes the attempt to hold on to symbols and tokens, like tartans and Highland Games.
I’ve examined various aspects of this question in two major books We’re Indians Sure Enough: The Legacy of the Scottish Highlanders in the United States and Seanchaidh na Coille / Memory-Keeper of the Forest: Anthology of Canadian Gaelic Literature, as well as in a number of articles.
In scholarship of the Klan, it is readily accepted that the origin of the 'Burning Cross' in Klan imagery comes from fictional portrayal in Dixon's The Clansman, and that he in turn was drawing on alleged traditions from the Highland Scots. The problem there is that I say 'alleged' as scholarship on the 'Firey Cross' in Scottish tradition seems quite sparse and quite convoluted, filled with a lot of iffy 19th c. antiquarian musings - Dixon almost certainly drawing from the questionable history of Sir Walter Scott, for instance.