I think one reason why many games and settings fail to represent just how prevalent religion was in day to day life is modern understanding if religion. I see often in games how various institutions seem to be modernized for audiences, like how instead of showing how deeply divided and informal law enforcement was in the era many games give us a “guard” that functions more like a modern police force. Religion isn’t as important in day to day lives as it used to be, most of our media doesn’t give us regular bible stories, church isn’t the place for community gatherings like it used to be and we don’t expect our politicians to be exceptionally pious. Religion is now more of a personal characteristic of ones identity than a means of existing within a community.
One thing I've noticed is that when games do show religion, it's often shown in a very... combative way. And also in a very liberal vs conservative way; perhaps the religion is homophobic or anti-science or racist, and the heroes or a marginalised group are oppressed because of what we would see as more progressive views.
I think really, while this is not something that you'd never find in the Middle Ages (well, except maybe the racism , which is quite anachronistic), it's really much more about how modern people view medieval religion through their own modern issues, than looking at the kind of religious issues that did cause tension between central authorities and peripheral groups. Games don't really present equivalents to the tensions/syncretism between paganism and Christianity, or the Hussites, or something like that. This isn't just games of course, but also films, tv shows, and books.
Although writing that made me suddenly think of Assassin's Creed, which is an entirely different issue. There an actual fairly straightforward war between Crusaders and a Muslim sect is turned into something that's not a reflection of modern views of religion, but actually changes things completely so that religion doesn't feature much.
Indeed writers tend to tackle religion in one extreme or the other. Fact is modern writers don’t know or don’t care how the church gave people modern science and bankrolled the earliest universities while still having dogmatic beliefs. Religion is complicated and it never did anything so clear cut. But most audiences don’t want to wrestle or try to understand how theology (particularly a theology that doesn’t agree with their own) can shape people’s lives. A fantasy book that I feel covers this well is the Lightbringer Series by Brent Weeks.