So it's actually a bit hard to prove a negative (ie, why wasn't there an advanced ancient civilization around the Caspian), but here are some ideas to situate the Caspian Sea in the regions history.
Now there is a giant debate over whether the Caspian Sea is a sea or a lake under international law, and in many ways it has quite a few differences from the ocean: it has a third the salinity, overall, and it's an endorheic basin, meaning that in the recent geologic history it has no outflow or connection to other seas or oceans (it has a roundabout shipping connection via the Volga-Don Canal, which was opened in 1952). But even between different parts of the Caspian Sea there are vast differences. The southern part is the most "ocean like" in terms of salinity and depth (around a 1000 meters), while the northern part of the sea is much less saline (it's where most of the rivers emptying into it are) and is very shallow, with a depth of some 10 meters. The result of this is that the Northern Caspian often .
Even as far as the Southern coast (including Gilan and Tabaristan) goes, it is a rich and fertile area that has long been of interest to Iranian states. It's exceptionally close to Tehran today, and is a traditional holiday spot for the city. It is cut off from the Iranian plateau by the Alborz Mountains, however, and therefore spent much of its history developing as a region with its own distinct languages and cultures. A similar geography and environment applies for the western shore South of the Caucasus: it is incredibly fertile, but the mountains mean that the natural flow is east-west in the Transcaucasus, or southwards towards Persia.
For the Eastern shore, this area is extremely arid and rocky, being on the edge of the Karakum Desert. The civilizations that did develop in the region were at oases along east-west trade routes, like Merv, or in more fertile river valleys, like along the Oxus/Amu Darya and in Khwarezm.
Despite this, it was of some significance, especially in terms of trade. It's just that the trading usage of the sea was mostly North-South, notably as the Kievan Rus' used it and the Volga as a means of trading with Persia.
The northern shore is mostly in a steppe region, and the lower Volga has tended to be more a part of that region and its peoples than apart from it.
A lot of the human activity here is east-west, and also southeast-northwest: it's just easier to go by land around the northern Caspian shore to points westwards or in Russia than to go through a hassle of a boat ride across the sea. As such, the lower Volga river and delta tended to be used as a fertile base area for steppe empires. The Khazars had their capital at Atil, and the Mongols and Golden Horde had their capitals at Sarai. Despite the Astrakhan area being a fertile source of farmed fruits and vegetables today, however, there wasn't a particular need or level of separateness for a unique agricultural civilization to develop there: the steppe zone was well suited to nomadic pastoralism, and those nomads traded with civilizations South and with farmers in the forest zone just north, and upstream. The pre-Slavic upper Volga did develop under the Volga Bulgars, by the way.
So why didn't the Caspian Sea develop maritime traditions and civilizations? It is different enough in its parts, and separate enough from the Black Sea and oceans, that it didn't make a lot of sense. It has been a crossroads and has been used in trade for millennia, and has been of deep importance to the nomadic empires that rose and fell along its northern shores.
Did Achaemenid, Arsacid or Sassanian Persia know about the full extent of the Caspian Sea and about how it isn't naturally linked to other oceans? Do we have records of Persian explorers sailing North into unknown waters (and perhaps even up the Volga)?
The Greeks managed to build colonies and migrate to places like Tanais on the mouth of the Don, Olbia on the mouth of the Southern Bug, and Tyras on the mouth of the Dniester. These were all in similar climates to the Northern Caspian (i.e. the Black Sea near those cities freezes in winter too), often had to contend with sometimes-hostile indigenous tribes, and were also quite far from the Greek heartland. Did any Persian state ever try setting up coastal colonies around the Caspian's shores? And if they didn't, why didn't they?
As for why ancient Persians didn't set up maritime colonies on the Caspian - they simply weren't in the maritime colony business. That the Greeks established the colonies mentioned in the Black Sea is because those were at the extreme edge of a Mediterranean and Black Sea-wide network of colonies of a very maritime people, coming from a relatively small, rocky and island filled home area. The Black Sea outposts that the Greeks had often served crucial roles in critical trade networks, such as the transportation of grain, wax and slaves from Scythian territories, and even here these colonies were not necessarily as central as the ones on present-day Crimea, such as Chersonesos, Neapolis or Theodosia, which had milder climates.
Finally, salt seemed to play a far more important role in ancient and medieval economies than today. With abundant salt on the Caspian Sea's arid Eastern shore (especially on the Garabogazköl), did any indigenous civilization in that region profit much off salt exports? Or did they run into the problem of too much salt and not enough buyers?
Edit: I would imagine that the Aral Sea would have had an even smaller role in history than the Caspian Sea. While it was near some very fertile and well-watered regions in a desert (similar to the Nile valley) along the Syr Darya and Amu Darya, it was also unlinked to other major bodies of water.
So regarding ancient Persian sources I would have to ping u/lcnielsen because I'm not an expert on those. What little I know of Greek sources like Herodotus is that he said the Caspian was not connected to the larger ocean, but that other Greeks and Romans went back and forth on the subject.
ETA: regarding Garabogaz - I don't have a copy of Konstantin Paustovsky's Kara-Bogaz handy, but from what I recall, the bay is not as much a source of halite/sea salt as it's a source of sodium sulfate, and epsomite. Although the deposits were locally exploited in the late 19th and early 20th century, according to Paustovsky, the area also had something of a reputation as unhealthy to be around (the wikipedia translation of the Turkmen to "Mighty Straight" is wrong, and a more accurate translation would be something closer to "Black Hole").
I don't have that much to add to /u/Kochevnik81 - in the Achaemenid and Sasanian era, the northernmore shores of the Caspian sea were the dominions of various steppe tribes (Scythians, Hepthalites, and so on) which Persian kings certainly campagined against and interacted with in various manners. These regions were probably not great mysteries to them as they were reasonably accessible to horse-riding nomads of the steppes. Tellingly, the Sasanians considered the area west of the Arals and north of the southern Caspian shore to be volatile enough and of little enough interest for the Great Wall of Gorgan to be built to protect the "Khorasan Highway", a lynchpin of of the "Silk road", against invaders from the North.
How true is the claim that Ancient Persia was less active in enslavement than Greece or Rome? Also, where did Ancient Persia get their slaves from, if they did practice slavery? But I'll ping u/lcnielsen just in case.