Regardless of whether they were required under the applicable standards, did you agree to have the tests done?
I got a call from them one day saying they were working with the contractor to do air testing and needed access to my unit so I assumed it was standard, but I didn’t formally authorize what work would be done or never entered into a contract with the subcontractor. The only thing I ever signed was with the contractor to handle the initial water mitigation.
Additionally, why is the subcontractor approaching you for payment? Did you contract with them directly (in which case, they are NOT a subcontractor). The sub should be contacting the person that hired them (the prime contractor), not you.
In that case you can tell them to interact with the company which contracted them, which was not you.
Did the contractor you worked directly with mention anything about this testing, or give you any sort of documentation to that effect?
Yeah, if that's the case, then the contractor does not have what's called "privity" with you, so he has no formal legal recourse against you. It's unlikely that he'd be able to get around that rule unless he could prove that you benefited from the extra work in some way. It seems that it provided you no benefits at all.
Yeah. The test results didn’t indicate there was any air quality issue at all as per the professional standards for this sort of work would have suggested prior to ordering these tests.
If the test had been required, the fact that it came up negative wouldn't mean it was unnecessary -- that's not what I mean by "received no benefit". You could have "benefited' from a negative result, by having the knowledge that the air is not bad.
It is that without a good reason (code, or some other indication that the air would be bad) there is no justification to have the tests done at all.
What does your contract with the contractor say? Is it a fixed price contract, time & materials, etc? What does it say about authorizing additional scope and does it mention air quality testing?