his actions could be construed as harassment under a student code of conduct or stalking under title ix. the definition of each of these terms varies a little from school to school but the concept is the same: he won't leave her alone and he's making her uncomfortable. she can either complain to the student conduct office or the title ix office or both, and they should take it more seriously than the housing administrators have. if y'all look at your student code of conduct and title ix policies I imagine you'll find a definition that this behavior fits.
edit: practical advice, as an autistic law student who used to work in higher ed (I'm not your lawyer or your RA!): she's gotta stop engaging with him when he pulls stunts like begging to leave his laptop in her room in the middle of the night. he's shown that either intentionally or unintentionally he does not understand her boundaries and she has to be more clear about what those boundaries are or his behavior isn't going to change. filing a student conduct complaint or a title ix complaint is one way to enforce those boundaries, but he'll have a harder time claiming "I just didn't know better because muh autism" if she explicitly tells him no when he makes unreasonable requests that make her uncomfortable. autistic people aren't exempt from basic rules of decency but if he won't follow them and she wants him to stop she needs to make it clear in some way that his behavior is inappropriate, whether it's.
She didn't feel threatened or anything and is very willing to forgive the guy, but it seems wrong to do that, legally, here.
2: She and I sent an email a few minutes ago seeing if we could meet with them about this and other such recurring issues.
3: She left the door unlocked, as is common at this college. I understand that you can still legally be liable to stolen items (etc) with your door locked.
Thank you, this is very helpful. I will see if I can rope in Title IX coordinators about this. This is a very small campus and sadly it seems not a lot of title ix issues move forward, from what I hear around the grapevine. But I’d feel better if I let them now, and after all I am a mandatory reporter.
Edit: re:2, I worry that it's gonna be more of a "well, did you sit down and talk with him? Oh, then there's nothing we can do!" type deal, based on how F's previous meetings with them have been.
The devices were his own, and he was taking them back. I just have issue with that he entered without her consent and took them back.