Well, it's worth nothing that the West, especially Europe, especially Germany, kept turning a blind eye to Russia's misdeeds, and kept giving them money instead. Hell, is from 40 years ago... now Zelensky is just doing anything and everything he can do minimize the suffering of his people. It's easy to get annoyed with their requests from the comfort of our homes, but weapons can be rebuilt, your loved ones can't be un-raped and un-killed.
You seem not to understand the stake here, it's not about the past but future. Germany went to bed with Putin. They planned to be gas hub for Europe, which allowed Putin to invade Ukraine and possibly more if went smoothly. He no longer needed Jamal being operational. He had ns and ns2. So if not for this war, we would end up paying premium and additional charge to Germany for our gas in Europe. So Germans planned exploiting all Europeans and they failed.
The USA gave Russia way more money than Germany in the last two decades. Germany made Russia poorer though trade.
So Germany made Russia 56 billion poorer while the USA made them 301 billion richer from 2000 to 2021.
Tell me you have zero clue how economics works without telling me you have zero clue how economics works.
Since Russia export gas and oil, it's quite global market and until there was a war and sanctions, US could be simply importing it at cheapest price. Russia wasn't a concern for US as much as China, until Ukraine crisis happened.
Germany agreed and helped him achieve that, later defending the new pipeline although its basically reason why Russia decided to make that move. Without it they probably wouldn't agree to start the war.
It's not just about surplus, it's about general trade, i.e. volume. Germany is Russia's largest trading partner by far in those lists. They didn't just take Russia's money, they gave them products in exchange. What that shows, is that despite massive imports from Russia, they gave them even more useful products in return. The only good exports to Russia is the type that will make them dependent on you, which happens to be American electronics and software, since that's the one thing Russia can't replace through China or India.
And no country so far has put in an official request for a reexport permission. There is nothing to allow when no one is really asking. Talking only to the media doesn't count. Fill in the papers and make it official. Habeck the responsible minister for reexport permissions has already said that Germany wouldn't block other countries.
>Germany has insisted that it is not blocking the delivery of German-made Leopard tanks, which other countries want to send.
They had good reasons for blocking Ukraine's membership in 2008. You have to look at it not from hindsight, but how the situation appeared 15 years ago.
Ukraine was very corrupt at that time. Its political leaders were extremely divided. And the clear majority of the Ukrainian population was against NATO membership and many even saw NATO as a threat.
Here are also some polls about joining the NATO. Before 2014 the support was most of the times below 22 %. So not even a quarter of the population was in favor of membership.
Maybe if the Ukrainian politicians were in agreement of Ukraine joining the NATO and its population actually liked the NATO instead of seeing it to a large degree as an enemy, there would have been more support for membership from other countries.
Maybe this war, but with a horrible outcome for Ukraine, so not helping was not an option. And it would have encouraged Russia to attack more countries in their neighborhood to add them to their new Soviet Union, so more wars and more deaths.
But here is a graph only about military equipment, the dark orange bar as money to finance things seemingly doesn't count for you.
Doesn't include military equipment which Germany sent to other countries, so that they would sent their old Soviet stuff.
And to be fair to some countries with not so high numbers on that list, the makers of the graph might not know of all military equipment which was sent to Ukraine in that time frame.
That exclusion will always make EU countries look worse than they are as so much monetary aid is organized via the EU.