This question has been asked here several times before, and the answer remains the same, which is that the moderators here do not have rights to republish content that's contributed by users. While we do enjoy the subreddit's reputation for accuracy, we would have a much higher standard for something that would be an actual printed work, unfortunately.
According to the , we each retain our own copyrights to our posts and comments, though REDDIT could publish a book of your comments without your permission if they wanted to.
You retain any ownership rights you have in Your Content, but you grant Reddit the following license to use that Content:
When Your Content is created with or submitted to the Services, you grant us a worldwide, royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable, non-exclusive, transferable, and sublicensable license to use, copy, modify, adapt, prepare derivative works of, distribute, store, perform, and display Your Content and any name, username, voice, or likeness provided in connection with Your Content in all media formats and channels now known or later developed anywhere in the world. This license includes the right for us to make Your Content available for syndication, broadcast, distribution, or publication by other companies, organizations, or individuals who partner with Reddit. You also agree that we may remove metadata associated with Your Content, and you irrevocably waive any claims and assertions of moral rights or attribution with respect to Your Content.
How does this apply to other users taking Your Content and selling it? Seems like only You and/or Reddit as a company can take and use Your Content but other users cannot? If that’s not the case, maybe one user can volunteer to aggregate the best questions and answers into a digital book or self publish it for sale.
So for Ask Historians you'd either need help from reddit, or someone to ask every questioner and answerer.
Doesn't the FAQ on the sidebar sort of do what you are asking? Since it's a list of links instead of text there are no licensing concerns. There's even a summary of best of awards on the sidebar which may be even closer to what you were asking for.