The submerged torpedo tubes on capital ships were a novel idea of the pre-First World War period that wartime experience soon revealed was deeply flawed.
The torpedo was a weapon more suited for smaller, more maneuverable ships. Additionally, torpedo ranges were much closer than the ranges at which the larger caliber guns fired; Rodney fired her torpedoes as she closed in on Bismarck when the latter was a flaming hulk without her main battery. Nonetheless, the torpedo was a cutting edge weapon when it was introduced over the latter third of the nineteenth century. Much as the battleship evolved in this period into a giant steel warship, the torpedo became more a more sophisticated weapon. It was unclear in the contest between bigger guns and bigger torpedoes which would prevail in a future naval conflict, especially as naval design was in a constant state of flux.
Capital ship torpedo partisans argued that by lowering the torpedoes' speed settings they could be in range. By the same token, the torpedo allowed for a battleship both to attack another warship below the waterline. Just as offensive weapons were in a state of flux in the decades before the First World War, so too were defensive systems such as armor and watertight compartimentalization. But changing the speed settings negated one of the chief attributes of a torpedo, its speed. In 1919, the RN's Director of Naval Construction noted the possibility of using both guns and torpedoes "in an action is only likely to confuse the mental attitude of those in command and cannot make for the greatest efficiency.".
Experience at Jutland showed the DNC correct. Not only were these tubes tactically near useless, they posed a significant danger to the ship itself. Torpedo rooms were large spaces and their submerged tubes increased risk of flooding. The large torpedo rooms on Lutzow likely contributed to her extensive flooding and loss at Jutland. Moreover, the presence of such large warheads on the ship was an additional risk if the ship were to take a hit in this area. Interwar refits of capital ships generally removed the tubes as they were a weight liability and wartime experience had shown they were more trouble than they were worth.
Brown, D. K. The Grand Fleet: Warship Design and Development, 1906-1922. Annapolis, Md: Naval Institute Press, 1999.
I think it's worth mentioning the concept of the 'browning' shot when discussing the decision to arm battleships with torpedoes. In the 1900s, it was understood, within the Royal Navy and the US Navy, that a large part of the value of the torpedo in a fleet action came in its ability to force the enemy to manoeuvre to avoid it. This could be done by firing so-called 'browning' shots; shots fired not at a particular vessel, but at the force as a whole (the term comes from bird hunting, when shots would be fired not at a single bird, but at the flock, 'into the brown'). The idea was not that the battleships were to position themselves to make torpedo attacks as destroyers would, but rather that the torpedoes would form an adjunct to the traditional battle-line slugging match. With two opposing battlelines facing each other, a torpedo salvo from one would force the opposing line to turn towards or away, reducing the fire coming towards the line which fired the torpedoes, or break up the line, allowing for it to be defeated in detail. Even if no damage was done by the torpedoes, they would still have played an important role. As you note, though, the push towards longer ranges allowed by bigger guns and better fire control pushed engagement ranges out past the range at which torpedoes could effectively reach, and the theory was never put into practice.