Yes, but very much under the hood. And Zelenskyy knows it has to appear that Israel is not supportive of Ukraine, that is why he is making these critical statements.
But if you think Ukraine just magically finding Israel anti air missiles, or Israel just randomly attacking Iranian drone factories is a coincidence, I have some cutting edge Russian tech to sell to you.
Worth noting: the Palestinians have long demanded full Israeli withdrawal from the West Bank as a precondition for a peace settlement. It would be rather awkward for Israel to throw their full and open support behind the Ukrainian demand for a full Russian withdrawal as a precondition for such talks as well, wouldn’t it?
Israel was historically in the same situation as Ukraine, and won their wars for self determination.
If the Arab nations didn't fight, there'd have been no war. If Israel didn't fight, there'd be no Israel.
Israel left Gaza and that brought them further away from peace thanks to Hamas gaining power. There isn't a chance they'll pull out of the West Bank unless the Palestinians show they're remotely interested in peace first. They're not going to watch history repeat itself.
And how likely is that to happen? Not much more likely than Israel wiling hands out by pure military force. There simply is no other viable alternative. And if Hamas renouncing its calls against Israel is such a deal breaker there is an answer to that too-offer them something worth the while to knock it off, something like-amnesty and ending the blockade of Gaza. Because they aren’t just gong to do out if the goodness of their hearts anymore than Israel is going to take apart it’s settlements unless there is something tangible in it for them.
There's also a significant difference in that Ukraine was attacked unprovoked whereas the Palestinians launched an attack against Israel to start the conflict in 48. It isn't remotely the same situation.
Well if the Palestinians didn't exist how can they demand the land is theirs? Can't really have it both ways.
They don’t want to forcefully integrate the Palestinians, just force them out. They are pretty transparent about that. Buzz is that Nethanyahu is preparing to revive the “Hashemite kingdom” proposal, just carving off what he fancies from the West Bank and then forcing Jordan to take what’s left.
The solution to Hamas is very likely the same as the solution to the IRA in Northern Ireland or what is going on with the various gangs in Columbia; amnesty in exchange for disarmament.
At the time of the Stan-Israeli war of 48 Palestine didn’t exist, it was a geographic expression rather than an internationally recognized state, sort of like Appalachia in the US. The offensive against Israel was from the Arab states of Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, and Syria. The Palestinians were stuck between the clashing armies, not active participants. Israel did not “leave” Gaza, they dismantled the settlements that were there and that was it, the Palestinians never had control of their own border crossings, or the sue and water space around Gaza, and Israel continued to and still continued to act with impunity there. Nor was the dismantlement of settlements a gesture toward peace, Ariel Sharon was very open that the reasons for it were self serving-to relocate settlers within Israel proper to shore up the Jewish population and to strenhen the claim to settlements in the West Bank. Try reading an actual history book.
Also, the correct answer is the Palestinians were Jordanians, so yes, they were part of the group that attacked Israel.
If you don't think dismantling settlements I'd a gesture towards peace then why would Israel leaving the West Bank be a requirement for peace, something you claimed it was.
Mainly because Israel has made numerous promises to the Palestinians and reneged on each one, so the Palestinians are in no frame of mind to move the goal posts any further.
I don't think Israel annexing all of Gaza and the West Bank to forcefully integrate the population would go over well.
Israel has supported Ukraine-in largely symbolic ways. This is part the course fit Israel, who have a track record if opportunism in international affairs. But also Israel can’t put their full weight behind Ukraine without compromising themselves vis a vis the Palestinians; it would be quite awkward to demand a full Russian withdrawal from Ukraine as a precondition to peace talks when that has been the long held position of the Palestinians about the West Bank.