This will be tricky without a lawyer. The good news is MI is a no fault divorce state, which is the easiest way to go (even though you may qualify under other grounds). You can go to the state website to complete uncontested divorce packet (and other websites). This will give you all the papers you need.
However, service is an issue. Service and notice of an action is a constitutional requirement under both federal and state law. It is enhanced in domestic cases like divorce. The issue is you do not know the defendant's whereabouts for since 2011.
Write down, with as much detail, what efforts you have gone through to locate him so far. Include dates, names, outcomes. Print out emails or text communications with family members if you have them and any PI reports or other various reports you have used.
You will need to move for alternative service/service by publication. This is a type of motion with formal requirements that a judge will have to agree to or impose other requirements for service to stratify the law. Generally, you will have to establish you made reasonable efforts to determine his whereabouts. Actions such as performing a DMV search, voter registration check, post office search, obituary search, asking family members, social media, and even contacting private investigators are all part of the reasonableness that you will need to exercise; BUT you may not have to do all of these steps, or the judge may want to see more than just these steps.
After the judge is satisfied that personal service is not possible or impracticable, the judge may require service via publication in a newspapers. This needs to be done pursuant to MI law and the judge's order. You may have to also perform other service tasks, including sending a copy of the papers to one of his family members as private and confidential to give to him. It really depends on a case-by-case basis and what the judge will do and what satisfies the judge that the spirit of service has been achieved.
Another advantage to having a lawyer in this situation, is that one who is familiar with the court and particular judges will have an idea of what will be accepted as alternative service or sufficient effort to locate.
This can help your lawyer form a game plan to ask for alternative service. Once you have permission to give alternative service, the rest of the divorce proceedings should be simple and straightforward since you don't have kids or assets and he, presumably, won't show up to contest anything.
I don't know that it will matter in terms of legal requirements and guidance, but your title says the spouse has been missing 19 years, yet your first sentence says they've been missing since 2011. Whether your title is wrong (9 years?) or the first sentence is wrong (2001?), you may want to edit your initial post to rectify that.
Ended up getting an annulment and cost about $3700. Happy to answer any questions about our experience if you have any. Good luck!
These are a lot of steps. There are some pitfalls. The good news is that some judges understand this, and them and their court attorneys/law clerks may be willing to help you. It could be a bumpy road in getting decisions/orders telling you what you did wrong, but sometimes they will put in that order how to fix the defect or move forward and give you "leave" or permission to try again.