Sorry for loss. You will most certainly need an attorney and you need to obtain a copy of the birth certificate to see if you are listed as the father. If you are, that should help your case immensely as you are the sole surviving parent.
There seems to be some missing info. Playing devil’s advocate, I do have some questions and concerns. It seems you waited a month to return to California after your wife passed. Is this true? If so, it could be considered child abandonment and your in laws could have been granted custody. If that is the case, the lawyer you obtain can assist in unwinding their custody. When your wife passed, what was the agreement with them for caring for your newborn until your return?
So your agreement was for the sister to watch the baby, but now your in laws have the baby. That’s wrong on their part. Did you keep in contact with them throughout the month? Were they (sister in law or her parents) cordial during this time? Did they know your return date? Just trying to get a sense of what is going on with their attitude and intentions. I can understand their anger in this difficult time that you “abandoned” their daughter during the birth, but does not give them the right to take your child if there was an agreement to watch baby until you returned. They may have been slick and took the opportunity to file custody by claiming you abandoned their daughter and your baby. I really hope this worked out for you. I can’t imagine the pain of having to deal with your child being taken after the deaths of your mom and wife.
My first step would be calling local law enforcement and telling them the situation, then ask for help retrieving your baby. As the sole living parent, you should automatically have sole custody. Take whatever documentation and proof you have with you to show law enforcement. Are you listed on the birth certificate? If so that should be all you need.
First and foremost I am deeply sorry for your loss. I would contact the police for kidnapping since her parents are refusing to give your daughter to you. The minute they refused they no longer have your permission to watch your daughter. I would hire a lawyer since it sounds like this will get complicated and they may fight you for custody. This is your daughter since you were married at the time of birth you should have full custody. The longer she is in the care of your wife's grandparents the harder it will be to get physical custody.