But it's not a legitimate business concern is the thing. I've had 2 lawyers tell me that the company is out of bounds for even asking. Suggesting harassment is a bit overboard, I understand. I just want them to go away and stop being dicks.
Also of note- you say "their brand is smaller than yours." I'm not sure what you mean by this, but if you are saying that they are a smaller business than your business, then I would definitely ignore them for the meantime and strongly consider hiring an attorney to protect your larger, assumingly more established business/brand.
Contacting you about a believed trademark violation is reasonable. They may not have a case, but they aren’t harassing you and it doesn’t even sound like they are being dicks.
I'm sorry to hear about your unfortunate situation. I agree that this doesn't sound like harassment so I would not bother making that claim. Like mcowger said, the other company may have a crappy case, but they may also feel like defending their mark is necessary. One thing I am curious about is whether you have registered your trademark with either the United States Patent and Trademark Office or with the State of Illinois? If you have, and your mark is approved, it might give more weight to your side here and ignoring them could be best. I would also want to know whether this other company has a registered trademark on the phrase they are challenging you on.
You may not realize but they have a legal responsibility the defend their trademark or they risk losing it, especially if it’s generic.
You should know that if you get sued, defending your case will likely become much more expensive (and time consuming) than if you to hire one now. If what the other two attorneys said was true (and assuming they know what they are talking about), then you might consider hiring an attorney to respond on your behalf. It shouldn't take a ton of time for he/she to figure out if this other company has a registered mark, or, if the mark they are claiming belongs to them is composed of such common words that it cannot be trademarked. A letter from a firm on your behalf will carry substantially greater weight than if you send one on your own behalf. If your are running your business without having registered as an official business entity (LLC, S-Corp, etc.) and you are a sole proprietor, then you definitely may want an attorney because if this company pursues a case against you, then your personal assets could be at stake. This would be unlikely assuming your business is incorporated as an LLC, S-Corp, or some other entity.
Of course you can also just change your slogan or name if you feel like you don't want to deal with any of this and you believe it will not greatly affect your ability to make money.
Don't take this personally, but if you want to have a business you need to register your business as an entity asap. I'm not trying to give you business advice or make you feel bad, but starting a business requires paying certain costs upfront so that you don't have to pay a lot more down the road. This means paying the filing fees associated with making your business a recognized entity (LLC). It means opening a business account at a bank. It may also mean paying fees for trademarking your logo or slogan. I believe it costs $150 right now to register an LLC in Illinois, though there may be more fees associated with filing your articles of organization. In any event, its only going to be a few hundred bucks at most and could save you a ton down the road. Depending on what your business is doing, it may also be required to register with other regulatory bodies as well. Regardless, I've seen businesses and family members of business owners get burned for not taking these crucial steps. Running a business without the liability protection afforded by an LLC or S-corp (or other entity) is like driving 20-25mph over the speed limit everywhere you go without wearing a seatbelt. While you may not have much money in your bank account, were a judgment rendered against your business without the protection, it would be the same as if a judgment was entered against you personally. If you can't pay the judgment, then it would open you up to things like wage garnishment, citations to discover assets (i.e. checking all your bank accounts and potentially reaching directly into them), and other really not fun things that you don't want to go through. You can definitely kiss your credit score goodbye. If you are married, they could also potentially go after funds that your spouse has.
I have only received emails from the company itself, not legal representation. Which makes me think if they aren't willing to pay for a lawyer to send an email then they probably aren't willing to spend much money at all.
Not trying to scare you, just letting you know that based on my experience you need to register your business asap.
With respect to your original issue, were either of the letters this other company sent you sent from a law firm/attorney? Or just the company itself? If the correspondence has only been from the company so far, and NOT an attorney/firm, then I would continue ignoring them. If it is from an attorney and the company wants to make a big deal out of it and files a lawsuit, then I would recommend reaching out to some public legal aid organizations that may be able to help. For example, Loyola University Chicago Law School has a business law clinic whereby they represent small for-profit businesses and non-profits. The work is done by law students and is overseen by very experienced business attorneys- all at no charge to the business. There are likely other options as well. (My apologies for not recommending this in my earlier post).
Hello! So to answer a few things for you.. they have filed for review under another state not even the USPTO. Their slogan/brand name is not trademarked only their logo design with the brand name in it. I am currently not registered as anything bc I just opened in August of 2020 but have been advised to register as an LLC and will be doing so as soon as I have some disposable income. As far as them sueing me, I have nothing for them to take. I am thinking about hiring a lawyer to respond on my behalf, just don't have the money for it.
Finally, did they even say that they would sue you if you don't change it by February 22nd? Or did they just say you better change your branding by then? If its the latter then I would continuing ignoring them until they make it a bigger deal. If its the former, and you're sure the correspondence was not from an attorney, then I would also continue ignoring them.
Yes so the 60 day thing is what I was told is the "norm" when someone is asking you to change branding. I am positive that the emails have been from the company itself and not a lawyer. They never said "we will sue you" the closest thing they said was "this was not a request we make lightly".