According to Luís Fróis (a Portuguese Jesuit residing in Japan and friend with Oda Nobunaga. He was the author of "Historia de Japam/History of Japan"), Konishi Yukinaga looked down on Chinese troops, but quickly learned to respect their prowess after their first contact (i.e. first Ming attack on Pyongyang, in which 3,000 Ming cavalry were lured into Pyongyang and ambushed, losing some 300\1,000 men. Despite losing the battle, Chinese soldiers left a deep impression on Konishi).
After Battle of Byeokjegwan (Ming lost this battle too), fear of Ming army began to run deep. Luís cited the fear as one of the reasons Japanese sued for ceasefire/negotiation.
Obviously, Luís was in Macau at the beginning of Imjin War, and did not personally witness what he wrote (it should be noted that given his relatively good standing with the Japanese, he did have good access to information, and could give a less-biased outsider POV).
However, his opinion can be corroborated with Korean and Japanese accounts. According to Annals of King Seonjo, Japanese soldiers inside Pyongyang stopped coming out of the city to pillage the countryside for a few days out of fear that Ming army might return, and even complained to the Koreans that Ming soldiers they just fought were completely unlike the weaklings they imagined.
For Japanese source, Seikanroku, a primary document of Shimazu clan, also records that after Byeokjegwan, Kato Kiyomasa and Asano Nagamasa refused to follow order from Hideyoshi himself to attack Jinju out of fear that Li Rusong might come back to attack them. They instead proposed to build a fortress between Kaesong and Jinju, and let Shimazu Yoshihiro garrison it against potential Ming attack (which Shimazu also cleverly refused). It was not until Hideyoshi issued another order (he asked Shimazu to join with the rest to attack Jinju) that ).
By the second phase of the war, the fear was such that news of a coming major offensive of one million Ming soldiers (later turns out to be a bluff from a captured Ming scout) scared Shimazu Yoshihiro into abandoning his position in Jinju and retreat to Sacheon. Konisi Yukinaga almost did the same with Suncheon too, but was persuaded against the idea by his subordinates. The same fake news also caused Ukita Hideie, Mori Hidemoto, and a dozen of other commanders to directly petition Hideyoshi, asking for his permission to abandon Ulsan, Suncheon and Yangshan, as they thought those places were too vulnerable (Hideyoshi angrily declined their request).
"Konishi Yukinaga looked down on Chinese troops, but quickly learned to respect their prowess after their first contact".
- Was the reason for such a view on Ming soldiers due to past conflicts, or was it like the Spanish situation where they observed a disintegrating Ming?
- Unfortunately on the wiki, there isn't much detail, is there any particular event or damage the Ming Cavalry did to leave such an impression? In the wiki the impression was that the Ming Cavalry was easily repelled once Konishi realized it was a very small contingent.
- Was there any particular reason that Ming tactical defeats didn't inspire more confidence instead on the Japanese side? Looking at raw numbers without context, it frames the Ming in stalemates more than not. One would imagine holding off Ming assaults would harden the resolve of the Japanese.
"...and, even complained to the Koreans that Ming soldiers they just fought were completely unlike the weaklings they imagined".
- This kind of goes back to question 1, is there a particular reason they regarded Ming troops so poorly? Was it also due to the current situation of the aging Ming Dynasty (Were they aware)? Or were they aware of the un-contested piracy by Wokou in the past and the Ming's inability to respond years ago?
Based on your post you might have already seen it, but there was a thread featuring contributions/discussion from myself, u/wolflance1, and u/ParkSungJun. Of course, there's still a lot to be said as well (EDIT: and I still have a lot of quibbles/issues/reservations with the Reddit Gilded reply.).
Past conflicts. Japanese impression on Chinese capabilities primarily came from their intel/experience with Wokou (pirate) raids against China's southern coasts, in which relatively few Wokou could wreck major chaos. Most Ming soldiers that went to Korea were border cavalry battle-hardened against the Mongols though.
There's still a lot of controversy around Byeokjegwan in general, with a lot of conflicting sources and a lot of skepticism with regard to numbers and combatants.
I personally find Swope's perspective (ie the revisionist view that, at least for the "Three Great Campaigns" as carried out by the Wanli Emperor, the Ming military was doing quite well for a time in spite of things sagging desperately by the very late period of his reign) pretty convincing for the most part.
Zu Chengxun cleared the outlying guard posts and stormed into Pyongyang with such speed that he still caught the Japanese off-guard, to the point that he was able to attack Japanese headquarter inside the city directly. Matsura Shigenobu (he was the unfortunate commander inside the headquarter at the time) even had to personally join the fighting to defend the headquarter (he was wounded in that battle) until Japanese troops elsewhere in the city were able to come and surround the Ming army, yet Ming army still escaped. Most Chinese casualties from this battle were rearguards covering the retreat for the rest (they were also trapped in the mud and unable to escape themselves).
Ming army inflicted disproportionate amount of casualties and still managed to escape despite being outnumbered by about 4\7 to one.
I've seen (it's written in Chinese) that discuss about Ming information network involving both Korea and Ryukyu, as well as spy-ops against Japan during Imjin War, but barely anything in reverse.
The author of my linked book did that discuss about Chinese people in the Japanese invasion army. It has a paragraph discussing how Wokou remnants (not all Wokou were Japanese) were involved in Hideyoshi's plan to conquer Ming Dynasty. The paper is in Japanese though.