Without considering the context of the conversation, a dentist deciding they can't fulfill the agreement, refunding the money, and setting everyone back to zero (money back, no dentures) is a reasonable outcome.
Likely your husband's options from here are to see if something can be worked out with the dentist, or to take his refund and find a new provider.
Given that the dentures are considered a medical device, I'd think that she took them and offered the refund instead of risking a malpractice claim. Ill-fitted dentures can cause more harm than good, and she could be liable for any damage if she let him keep them, especially after two weeks of the devices causing recorded issues and damage.
As she's unable to resolve the fit, the refund and dismissal from her care was the ethical, albeit unpleasant, move. I think he ought to take the refund and see someone else. I can't imagine he would be comfortable moving forward with this dentist, and she is aware that she cannot provide the necessary care, hence the refund. You could give their office a call and see if they can recommend another provider to try to adjust the same devices or if the process needs to be restarted as a whole for the safest care.
Re: your update, the problem here is that the dentist already offered to take them back and give him a refund and your husband refused that option. But that's going to be your recourse going forward if something is wrong with them like that, you have to be made whole and getting your money back is making you whole here. You aren't gonna get anything for "pain and suffering" on top of that really.
Dentures suck and most people have unreasonable expectations for what they can do. They are not teeth and will never function like teeth. It will take several weeks to adjust to using a denture in the best conditions. It is a prosthesis that replaces a body part. Some people can get used to them and function while others absolutely can not. Thats why implants were invented. There is no malpractice in this case. If a refund was issued, go to another dentist and have new teeth made.
He might still have temporaries, some denture fittings you get a set of temporary ones that are meant to hold you over until the real ones are ready and also help get your mouth ready to have dentures in them. They can last quite awhile too.
I would honestly give them back and go somewhere else. Doing anything else is likely going to end you up in exactly this same spot, just a few weeks/months later down the line.