OP, I am sincerely sorry, but I have to lock your post now. There is very little legal information anyone can tell you other than to contact RAINN, which you should have gotten a DM from the automoderator with information about, and of course you can make a police report or go to the emergency department.
If you do not have a trusted person to go with you to the police and you do not want to go alone (can't blame you) then I strongly suggest contacting an agency/shelter/center for victims of abuse/rape/domestic violence. Very likely one of them will be able to help out and arrange for somebody to go with you, as that's the sort of difference they're trying to make in the lives of people who went through something like what you did.
I am worried because so many people are commenting with their thoughts and opinions and life advice, none of which are allowed here, and the comments have already gotten into some pretty ugly territory with victim blaming and some gross incel talking about how a "real gentleman" wouldn't take advantage and other utter crap you do not need to deal with from random people on the internet.
This is why at the very least I strongly urge you to look for a nearby agency/center/nonprofit that works with victims of sexual assault, and to visit them to see if you can learn from them what they can help you figure out based on all of their experience working closely with women who had been in your exact same shoes before.
Now or in the future, you may recognize certain issues and changes that you are concerned about, but not realize that they may be attributable to trauma from this event.
To speak bluntly, it sounds like you're in a bit of shock at this time and have yet to begun to process what happened. My concern is that you may try to get through this on your own at some point, and that can be detrimental. Please know that it is normal and expected for people to be unable to move past trauma without outside help. What that looks like -- being able to move past/process it, can look very different in different people.
Go to the police as soon as you can if possible. Try not to shower or wash your clothes you were wearing from that night. The clothes may have DNA evidence that will help the police with their investigation.
This is rape. I had zero second thoughts in my head at any point while reading your post. Rape. You were raped. In this scenario, you are the rape victim and he is the rapist. There is no wiggle room with this judgment of this specific event--sometimes it is perhaps debatable. This is not one of those times At all.
Please take care and reach out to RAINN. They are the professionals and amazing at handling this type of question. We are, unfortunately, the internet and it can be difficult in "hot topic" posts to keep the driveby shitpost commenting contained. Best of luck.
Best of luck to you. PLEASE let the people in your life who can support you know that you've been through something and may need their help at this time in your life. Up to you how much you tell them, you don't have to tell them anything, really, other than that you may need support. It's important that they're primed with this information so that if you do need to lean on them, then they're already prepared to be there for you and understand right away that this is serious and not. something anybody can be expected to process and cope with entirely on their own.
Let me so say that there is no rulebook for trauma. It is hard to predict whether somebody will be traumatized-- and how badly and in which ways--by a particular event or not. It depends on the individual and the context. The only way to know how this trauma has affected you and will continue to affect you, or not affect you, is for you to find out for yourself. Nobody else can predict that for you.