Yes, your company can ask you to work for a political client, even if you don't personally agree with their politics. Political beliefs are not generally a protected class, so you can be disciplined or fired if you refuse to do work that is assigned to you. There's nothing illegal or treasonous about trying to defeat a political opponent, even an incumbent President.
It's extremely common to say one wants to "defeat" a political opponent. It does not imply a threat of violence or ill intent in the slightest.
I get that. The name of the committee is kind of harsh though. It makes it sound like they're going to go Al-Queda on Biden or something. This sort of thing happens basically after every new election by the opposing party's supporters though right? Basically they're always filing for impeachment and nonsense nearly immediately after their opposer takes office?
I don't know anything about this group, but their goals could easily be as innocuous as simply fundraising for Republican candidates in 2022 and 2024.
It depends on the details, but this kind of thing would most likely fall under the first amendment and would therefore be legal. I can't say for sure though, can you give more details?
Well, I don't have all the details. They absolutely refuse to talk about it in the work chat except for letting us know it was a new job, and they were starting to train us on it which made me and others even more suspicious that they were being so tight lipped about it when we asked what it meant. They are picking and choosing who gets to work on it as well. I had to go look it up for myself and called them out about it, and they pretended nothing was even said about it when anyone commented. It's almost as if they know what they're doing is bad. I get freedom of speech and all but when does causing trouble for the government go from freedom to treason? I don't want to be one of those dogs being hunted down like all the people who thought supporting Trump was a good thing, and I personally have nothing against Biden. I don't know what all he stands for but he's already better than Trump in my book.
I just googled it, and it's a Political Action Committee that has major influence in Trump's campaign. It's probably very hush-hush just because it's a prominent account.
Yeah, I mean there's no evidence of "imminent lawless action" or any other exceptions to the first amendment. It sounds pretty sketch, but it sounds legal.
Thank you. It definitely is sketchy to me, and I have no idea how they're planning on using the funds we are raising for them, but I'm not liking this one bit. I think we dropped PETA because of their shifty nonsense.
Well, I'm a little more relieved. I wouldn't even be doing this job if it weren't so hard to find better jobs at the moment. This is my first half-decent job in months, and I hate being one of those callers that pesters people all the time, but it's a paycheck.
A little word of advice to anyone who reads this and doesn't know, if someone like me calls you for fundraising reasons, you have to tell us to take you off the list nearly word for word otherwise the company will call you back later no matter how many times you hang up. Apparently the national DNC list doesn't protect you from fundraisers, non profits, or debt collectors.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.