The other comment isn't right. The truth is an absolute defense against claims of slander or libel, meaning it's not slander or libel if it's true. This is tricky territory, though, because in many places in the US this particular accusation can be called defamatory if it can't be proven.
In short, while you can talk about your experiences, you're opening yourself up to a lot of risk if you do so publicly. It may well lead to a lawsuit for defamation and with no evidence other than your testimony that may not go your way. That could end up being a costly backfire.
Actually defending a defamation suit on an issue like this will be a costly process and in most situations you'll be stuck paying out of pocket. Raising the issue with the appropriate authorities is your best bet.
You might be better served by looking up the statute of limitations for prosecution in the location where it happened and pursuing the matter with law enforcement. Your testimony can be given as evidence there, though the state may not bring charges if they're not convinced it will lead to a conviction.
To add to this, although truth is an absolute defense, unless you have something incontrovertible you won't be able to effectively assert it until you're actually at trial, at which point you will have to prove the fact of your abuse.
I'd also caution that in many areas accusations of criminal conduct like this can constitute defamation per se, meaning the abuser won't have to prove damages. Also keep in mind that even private messages to third parties can give rise to a defamation claim.
I wish I saw the other comments dang it. I just want to warn people and I have seen others do it. He’s definitely a repeat offender cause he abused someone before me. My case was kind of left open for weird reasons. What are examples of true beyond a reasonable doubt? I don’t think I can heal till he’s out away.
For healing, you're much better off doubling down on therapy. Any legal process will require you to relive the experience while being attacked by whoever is defending your abuser, so if you're not fully healed and ready to face that it'll do you more harm than good.
Proving it to that degree with just your testimony in a civil case is going to be difficult. Law enforcement has a better shot at things as they can talk with other potential victims, but you should know that will move at a glacial pace, if they even decide to pursue it.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.