Not a lawyer, I tell banks what they did wrong. The lender needs statements that have your name, the financial institution name, an identifiable account number, a total/balance, and a date range. Is the account accessible by computer where you can print out a document that has these things (or print/save as pdf)? They would need the url somewhere on the page, usually at the bottom or top, if you're printing out activity. Without these, it's too easy to commit fraud. Financial institutions are required by law to be able to provide you with written statements, most have all these items on the statements.
They never gave the requirements you listed here, just requested a PDF statement. I would have been able to provide that info, although across multiple photos, but now my computer is on a shipping container and I can't imagine they'll appreciate screenshots from my phone.
Although I'm not sure binance has the concept of account numbers in the sense of what they display to a user. I haven't seen any pages with that displayed anywhere, although I could have missed it.
I suspect that guide was written for international binance, as he links to binance.com. All US residents must use binance.us now, and that site is different, his instructions don't map one to one. That being said, I did something similar with screenshots. The US version of binance doesn't support statement exports, see my other posts.
Also: see or for some insight into why I can't provide a regular statement. I may have been able to if I had more than a day notice, but even if I did have more time, it may have not been possible from the beginning since it appears to have been broken on binance for a while (forever?).
No, I asked that. They just kept saying they needed a "statement", not a PDF of a screenshot. I suspect what they really meant was they wanted what the poster above listed, but didn't articulate it well enough. Even if they had, there isn't a page on binance that has all that info, I would have had to collect multiple pages.
From a quick search, it appears Binance (or Binance US) is not a regulated financial institution. Since you can't provide statements, the lender will issue a denial letter for insufficient assets. If your sales contract had a mortgage contingency, that should help you get your deposit back. As for your other expenses, you will need to talk to the lender to see if you can recoup some of your funds, but there's no guaranty. From your comments, it sounds like they made it sound like it was a done deal, keep any correspondence you have from them.