She should not be telling you anything and should only be telling her attorney. You know far more than you should. She needs to stop yapping (sorry) about her (alleged) crimes and only speak to an attorney. You won't be able to speak to her public defender, if she gets one, that would be unethical.
You can hire one for her but you should let the attorney do their job. They may not agree to speak to you at all.
She's not capable of getting one herself, this has been made abundantly clear. And I was under the impression that she can waive attourney/client privilege whenever she wanted. Especially since we would be the ones paying for the lawyer.
And that's a massive problem. You can be called to testify against her. It happens. Seriously. Stop letting her tell you things.
We just want to know wtf they think she did. Which honestly doesn't even feel like privileged info to begin with since I got her statute code online on her jail report...
>Piercing the attorney-client privilege may be one of opposing counsel’s top priorities irrespective of the strenh of their case... A waiver can occur from a variety of conduct that fails to maintain the confidentiality of the communication. Either voluntary or inadvertent disclosure to outside or non-covered recipients, professional advisors outside the privilege, and experts and consultants, can result in waiver as a matter of law. E-mails can waive the privilege and show up as litigation exhibits for lots of reasons: as a result of their high volume; due to quick and hastened responses sent without reflection; as emotional, subjective, or reactionary responses; based on the ease of “reply all” and forwarding; and given their informal nature and permanence. Any and all of these can create problems later. Social media is also prolific and similarly fraught with an invitation for waiver.
Why would they call me to testify about something that they posted on the internet for anyone to see? The lower limit for FL Grand Theft seems to be $750. Why would I pay $2k for a lawyer if they think she stole less than that? I just want to know if I can hire a public defender and then change my mind and hire a private one later.
You cannot hire a public defender. She would have to request one, then qualify (if she's poor enough) and then have one assigned. But she get (potentially) get one and then anyone could hire a private attorney later, yes.
Depends on the court and their workload. They may meet at the arraignment, or one may be assigned at the arraignment, or one may be assigned shortly thereafter. She just needs to plead NOT guilty and not try to argue anything at the arraignment, so hopefully she's watched L&O as well. Good luck.