[How true is the idea that the model of education in the West is based on a 'factory model of education', meaning that it was designed in the 19th century to provide obedient workers for industry.
If we go back to the moment the first White adults stepped onto to this land, their educational goals were mainly about providing a spiritual education to children - their own and the Indigenous children they encountered. This philosophy of "saving" Indigenous children can be seen in each subsequent generation of educators, eventually resulting in the Indian Boarding School system such as the one in Carlisle, Pennsylvania. This system of education wasn't about preparing for children for anything, as much as it was about separating Indigenous children from their family, language, and culture. It wouldn't be until the 1970s that the last of the schools were shut down.
So, this time I'm going to come at it in a slightly different way. First things first - there was no purposeful design because there is no American education system (assuming that's what you're asking about) to be designed. No one person, or committee, sat down and said "this is what we need so let's make schools fulfill this need." However, if we wanted to look at an overarching theme we could follow a theme of separating children of color from White children.
As chattel slavery spread throughout the Southern colonies and then states, White lawmakers took steps to ensure that Black, African, and African American children, and adults, did not have access to any form of education. This included passing laws that penalized literacy, even the possession of materials that could be used to teach.^1.
In the North, free Black men were denied access to the Colonial Colleges attended by White men and their children often had to walk past three or four schools for White children in order to attend segregated schools. Roberts v. Boston, the first court-case related to school desegregation was heard in 1850 and would be used as precedent during Plessy v. Ferguson, which made "separate but equal" the law of the land, if not the practice.
The deliberate separation of children of color from White children and the resources given to support their education continued as Asian immigrants arrived on the West coast and at one point almost led to an international incident, resolved through the Gentlemen's Agreement of 1907. The White school leaders in San Francisco, following the earthquake attempted to require all Asian students attend "The Oriental Public School for Chinese, Japanese, and Koreans", regardless of their parents' educational goals or the child's language abilities.^2.
We can see examples of these patterns throughout American history - the nature of education children experienced depended on their proximity to whiteness. The sons of early European colonizers would grow up to become adults who built schools for their children organized around Protestant texts and a focus on a classical curriculum. Their grandsons would built schools staffed by their granddaughters ().
The continued dual paths has endured into the modern era. Although Brown v. Board () did end legal segregation, Northern schools were mostly segregated due to attendance zones and housing policies. We can see evidence of these dual paths when we compare the resources available to suburban schools that surround urban ones.
Slowly, the classical liberal arts curriculum would evolve into the modern liberal arts curriculum, like what we see today: a little bit of everything with the goal of letting America's children pick their own future. When education historians try to distill the purpose of early American education down to a few purposes, providing children with a strong foundation to be an informed voter generally emerges as one of the driving goals. We see this in the curriculum children study: art, music, literature, science, history, physical education, etc.
2.Two other great books on the topic are Small Strangers: The Experiences of Immigrant Children in America, 1880–1925 by Klapper, which does a great job of exploring how immigrant children had access to different resources and school experiences based on their ethnicity. A Chance to Learn: The History of Race and Education in the United States by Weinberg is from 1977, so its a bit dated, but it explores the dual histories in more depth.
I read some of the older threads, and saw a number of assumptions on western education systems that are definitely not true for a number of European systems. 8+4 is not a common theme, for instance.
So, let's cycle back again to the question you're asking. The schoolmen who advocated for public education systems were working against a pretty strong headwind: the 10th Amendment. Founders like Thomas Jefferson advocated for public education but because education isn't mentioned in the constitution, it could only be handled on a state by state basis. He was successful in Virginia and his ideas eventually made their way into various documents that informed creation of various states' constitutions. The consequence of this in a practical sense is that every state in the country has its own history of education in terms of why and how they elected to fund public schools. These funded schools, though, weren't accessible to everyone - children were disabilities could be kept out of public schools until 1975, but some states started training special education teachers in the early 1900s. Most states had compulsory education laws by the 1910s but some lifted them in the 1950s when it looked like schools were going to be required to integrate. Some states started began offering technical education - autobody, electrical, plumbing, etc. - to students in the 1930s. Some started in the last 20 years or so.
1.There were exceptions, of course. Some enslaved adults and children needed literacy skills to complete their work and some enslavers saw the religious education of their slaves as their own moral responsibility and allowed the possession of religious texts. Self-Taught: African American Education in Slavery and Freedom (2005) by Heather A. Williams is a powerful study of the topic.
But in general, isn't Western education largely based on early medieval monastries and cathedral schools, both in subjects, seating arrangements (facing the teacher) and setup?