Milt Hinton, jazz musician, and one of the great bass players of the 20th century, was delivering liquor for Al Capone. He was also black.
He got into an automobile accident and one of his fingers (needed for playing music) was injured. Al Capone went with Hinton to the hospital; the doctor wanted.
to amputate and leave off the finger, but Capone made a personal plea: the doctor sewed the finger on, and it ended up being good.
Al Capone not only worked with blacks within his organization, but helped musicians through trouble and would provide bodyguards when needed. Entertainers and mobsters lived in a tight relationship (although as you'll see shortly, not a symmetrical one), simply because so many of the venues to perform in were run by criminals. This was not always optimal for musicianship. The cornet player Jimmy McPartland later wrote of performing at one of Capone's clubs:
While it's certainly not true that all cabarets were mobster-run -- one early innovator, the famous boxer Jack Johnson, started the Cafe de Campion in.
1912 as a "black and tan" () -- mobsters and nightclubs were tightly wound with the rise of Prohibition.
It meant many entertainers passed through mobster establishments if they were intending to make it big in Chicago. In addition to Waller, Duke Ellinon, Ethel.
Morton, and Ethel Waters all performed in mob country. Again: treatment of performers was generally good, as long they didn't stray over the loyalty line (and if carnage was afoot, they kept performing).
The comedian and singer Joe Lewis is a good example. He performed at the Green Mill (a club of Machine Gun Jack McGurn, one of Capone's gang) but when his contract ended he went to a rival gang's club (the Rendezvous, run by the Moran gang).
McGurn threatened Lewis; not long after a successful performance at the Rendezvous, three men visited him in his hotel room, two with guns and one with a knife.
After extended working over with the knife, Lewis landed six hours in a hospital. Part of his tongue was cut off.
The Fats Waller story about the birthday party is probably true. Maurice Waller, his son, later recounted in detail his father's narrative.
On a different night, the same gentlemen in black ties showed up; when Fats was done with his gig he left relieved nothing had happened, but soon found himself forced into a limo at gunpoint.
He was worried, at the time, it had something to do with the first incident, but instead he arrived at -- as the story you mention goes -- at Al Capone's surprise party. He was "asked" to play piano but soon the environment became more relaxed:
/u/grandissimo has written books and taught about organized crime, so you might like some of their answers:
Now, I say "probably" to all this because another book -- this one by Al Capone's grandniece -- tells things a little differently; that Waller was one of the musicians who got his start through Capone's nightclubs, although she also mentions the stuffing of hundred-dollar bills. However, Fats Waller's career really did get going long before Al Capone came into the scene, and the behavior of the mobsters doing a kidnapping is really not out of character.
To return to the essential point: Al Capone really did seem to care for African-Americans, and it is unlikely in the midst of a multi-day party anyone would have been abusive to the guest against his wishes. This quote supposedly from Capone himself is second-hand as told to his brother, but fairly plausible based on Capone's other actions:
Incidentally, while digging through sources to see if I could find anything about African Americans and the soup kitchen (I didn't), publications like the Chicago Defender were generally not particularly complimentary towards Capone, so I found the quote by /u/jbdyer on Capone's reported sympathy towards African Americans to be curious given that by then it was apparently not reciprocated. While I've done fairly extensive work on Prohibition, I've not looked into this area of Capone much, though, so it may be that once the good times stopped so did tolerance of his foibles too.
The St. Valentine's Day Massacre (Feb. 1929, so same year the Depression hit) seems to be where the balloon started deflating. Capone was always a violent criminal, but somehow the shock factor before wasn't high enough.
That final point from Capone's brother is the first thing that popped into my mind. Italian mobs were born from a need to tackle success in a country that tended to push put "the other" from mainstream success. Irish, Italian, black, at one point or another saw each other with more commonality than they had with mainstream "white" America.
Yes it’s only “recently” that Italians were considered main stream white and if they were Sicilian they were treated even lower than mainland Italians.
If a random Italian-American from the start of the 20th century was prejudiced against anyone, it was probably Jews. Al Capone was childhood friends with Bugsy Siegel (probably the most famous of all Jewish mobsters) and Capone's bagman (the money collector) was a Polish Jew.
Al Capone's wife was Mae Coughlin, who was the daughter of Irish immigrants. I don't know offhand of any Irish members of Capone's gang, but the Irish in Chicago had strong gangs of their own (incidentally, the famous St. Valentine's Day Massacre was perpetrated against an Irish gang).
Now, associations don't mean lack of prejudice (Sonia Greene, Lovecraft's wife -- briefly -- was Jewish, and boy howdy was Lovecraft prejudiced) but by all indications I've read Capone was truly meritocratic (and, of course, ruthless).