Sorry for possible typos or sloppy English, feel free to ask any questions if I didn't make myself clear enough.
If we examine PLC's conflicts in previous era, then it's quite easy to see that majority of time said conflicts didn't lead to large damage inflicted upon Polish-Lithuanian territory proper. Sure, Lithuanian territory was ravaged by Russians in Livonian War, and Tatar raids were quite frequent and destructive to frontier lands, there were years of civil unrest and cossack insurrections, but nothing out of ordinary. It was a rare sight to see 17th century state not facing another rebellion every decade or so. In contrast to their neighbours, there were no big desolating events which could potentially pose a life-ending threat to PLC. There was no Russian army in Warsaw in 1612, quite the opposite. German lands lying to the west were in miserable conditions after the ending of Thirty Years War, and Ottomans also didn't achieve much in destroying Polish hegemony in the region.
I would argue that the main reason of Deluge and predecessing events in Polish history being so notable is the character of warfare waged against Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. In late 16th - early 17th century PLC was arguably the strongest and most influential country of the Eastern Europe (maybe besides Ottoman Empire if we consider them to be eastern European power). It was a country with long and successful military and expansionist history, a country with both large coffers and relatively stable society. In comparison to PLC, Russia was in complete tatters after period of unrest and civil war which ended in 1618 and led to country being completely ravaged by said events, Prussia was direct Polish vassal and posed no significant threat, and Sweden, despite multiple attempts, wasn't successful in decisively defeating it. After winning Smolensk war against Russia in 1630s, PLC entered a period of stable, "fat", as some historians put it, existence, called Zloty Pokoj ("Golden Peace"). Said period would end in 1648, a year of large cossack uprising, which would in turn lead to PLC being besieged from all fronts by multiple opponents.
Unlike previous years, both Khmelnitsky's uprising and Russo-Swedish wars of 1650s would shock PLC to its core. First of all, Polish army would face multitude of defeats against cossacks, essentially leaving adjoining lands defenseless. This led to said area being ravaged by rebels and allied Tatars, and was all the most shocking after more than ten years of countryside essentially having no fear of large scale warfare. Seeing PLC being unable to fully supress the unrest, Russian state would soon intervene in hopes of gaining sizable chunks of the hostile lands, same with Sweden.
In Russia, beginning of the new war was met with unmatched religious fervor and enthusiasm. It may probably be surprising by today's standarts, but differences in Christianity practiced by both countries (mixed Catholic-Orthodox of PLC and Orthodox for Russia) were one of the key factors leading to the conflict - that and also previous grievances and lost territories, which were taken by Poland in Russian Time of Troubles around 30 years earlier (roughly the same reasoning would later lead to Russian intervention in Northern War of 1655-1660 against Sweden). Military campaign against PLC, which began in 1654, was given the status of holy war, a crusade aimed at "liberating" Orthodox population of modern-day Belorussia/Belarus and Ukraine and "punishing" "Catholic heathens" for damage wrecked upon Russia in previous years.
Said military campaign came under unofficial unified motto of "bei shlyachtu, prinimai krestyan" ("smash noble men, recruit common men"): Orthodox population living under Polish rule in eastern provinces was encouraged by advancing Russian armies to join their ranks, flee from their masters, kill them or give them out to invading forces. Together with country as a whole being very tired from several long years of constant conflict, this led to peasants leaving their feudals or lynching them without any fear of prosecution. According to K. Bobiatynski, many Polish landowners expressed their concern, being fully aware of their subordinates' shaky loyalty. Polish nobility had to flee to the west in hopes of evading crawling threat, otherwise they would face very grim fate. This was doubled down with common laws of war (or lack thereof) with cities and fortresses refusing to surrender being given no quarter (like the town of Mstislavl which was almost completely destroyed).
Despite this, Russian armies generally tried to avoid needless bloodshed and excessive plunder since their primary target in early stages of conflict was bringing Lithuanian lands under Russian rule, not destroying them. This prohibition was largelly lifted after war started to drag on, and many provinces firstly conquered by Russians started to openly oppose them in hopes of rejoining PLC. Russian regiments, which conducted operations in western Lithuania in 1655, were given strict orders not to kill or enslave locals, with violators being punished by death. After towns in the area rebelled in 1659-1660, their attitude became much more cruel: rebels were considered to be oathbreakers and thus free from any invervention from the law. For example, successful siege of Brest in January of 1660 led to mass murder of inhabitants, both soldiers and civilians; their bodies were refused proper burial and dumped into the moat. Only about 50 commanding officers were spared and taken into captivity. Long, drawn-out military actions such as burning of Brest would lead to huge swathes of land left desolated. This would end in further economic difficulties, making PLC's situation worse with each passing year.
Hardly, Sejm was blocking any offensive wars, so they were really rare, most of them were private enterprises of powerfull magnates. The only wars apporved by Sejm were then ones with aim to regain lost territories, for example Livonia or Smolensk.
With wars waged against Poland by Sweden, Russia and their allies being very long and bloody, I personally think it was indeed very shocking to an average Polish citizen to suddenly come under very real threat of being killed, robbed or enslaved after period of time when PCL's land was mostly free from large conflicts.
No, you didn't mention these two big and infamous massacres, that happened during the first phase of the war, instead you said that in the begining Russian army was avoiding a bloodshed on civilians. These two fact exclude eachother.
I don't have any follow up questions, but I just wanted the thank you for the fantastic answer. It was very informative and the Commonwealth was such a fascinating country.
Well, I didn't specify that wars were frequent, just that they were largely victorious for PLC and pretty successful to boot.
Overall your answer is very focused on Russian affairs and pretty one-sided. In general the destruction of PLC is not only atributed to Swedish invasion but also to destructive Cossack war, Russian invasion, Tatar raids and the invasion of George II Rákóczi in later stages of war.
Maybe in Russian, Turkish or Tatar terms, but in general it wasn't accustomed to massacre civilians only because they were defending themselves. Also Vilnius was defensless when Russian army entered. Massacres and expulsion of the common people to Russia are well evidenced already for 1654-55 campaign.
Cromwell's siege of Drogheda and Wexford in 1649 ended in great damage inflicted upon civilian population.
During Time of Troubles, Smolensk was actively resisting PLC's army, and its civil population suffered greatly after the city was taken.
It still didn't guarantee that the civilians would survive. In 1611, Chernigov/Chernihiv gave no resistance to PLC's cossacks yet its civilian population was annihilated.
Thirty Years War saw huge civilian casualties and many towns burned to the ground despite majority of participants coming from Western Europe, who were neither Russian, nor Turkish nor Tatar.