Since you’re driving primarily for work, even though you’re not at an “office” or “workplace”, your vehicle is still considered company property. Your employer has wide latitude to legally monitor almost anything an employee does at work as long as the reason for monitoring is important enough to the business. Employers may install video cameras, read postal mail and e-mail, monitor phone and computer usage, use GPS tracking, and more. This would be especially compounded if the vehicle is company property. The gray area would be if you’re allowed to take the vehicle home and are driving home after you shift ends or when you’re in the vehicle on break, but even then if it’s a company vehicle they probably would be given leeway.
Intentionally disabling a device that your employer installed for safety reasons? I'd be very careful about using that.
I'm sure you're a very careful driver, but what do you think would happen if a drunk driver rear-ended you while you were on the phone with your wife and the camera was disabled?
Carriers get a break on insurance if they have a plan in place to coach drivers. Problem is, it’s also used as a way to ‘stockpile’ things to fire you for that can be completely unrelated to driving.
Man it blow my mind how much the law favors employers. I bought a switch to splice into the power source for the camera so I can disable it when I’m on the phone. It’s bad enough that there are two power sources for this camera and they’re both disguised so they can always keep tabs on you. Mind you, I’ve got 13 years as a driver, hundreds of thousands of miles across states hauling everything from wet concrete to radioactive cargo and I’ve never had a ticket or an accident. 🤷‍♂️.
It sucks. But it’s not for my safety. It all comes back to money for the company. As a driver, you of course are absolutely disposable.
The need for 100% video only in cab could be justified to verify you were driver all the time, buckled up, etc.
The camera also transmits things like RPM, what gear I’m in, if I’m swaying or driving straight, how fast I’m turning, throttle position, how much pressure I apply while braking, air pressure, truck voltage and fuel consumption. Plus, this particular model uses AI to monitor traffic in front and what you are doing in the cab. Good example: I scratched the back of my neck at 25mph, no traffic - the camera emailed my supervisor immediately with a ‘distracted driving’ alarm and I had a phone call within 5 minutes. You can’t pick up food, drink (cellphones are prohibited by federal regulation in commercial vehicles) or look too long in a mirror without the AI tracking your eye position and telling on you, as well as reporting if you’ve stopped at a stop sign or light long enough and if you’re giving the traffic in front of you enough spacing!
If there is nothing in the contract covering the audio taping this may be actionable and illegal on the trucking companies part.
The (imho) serious red flag is the audio taping. Particularly if you're hands free and they are recording audio of participants outside of any contract you signed waiving your rights and consenting to audio monitoring.
There's where I think you may have legal remedies, particularly if you're traveling through 2 party consent states.
OK is "one party consent". However, at issue is that neither you nor the other party on the speaker call do the consent. This is where your contract may come into play.
For example, say you're going through a bankruptcy or divorce, and you're taking with your attorney. They certainly wouldn't want that information being recorded by outside parties.
I could see where they installed the cameras but didn't think through the audio portion or have rationalized that because you're in the company truck you have given implied consent. But what they haven't considered is the "innocent" party that has an expectation of privacy and is being surreptitiously recorded outside of their knowledge.