Not a lawyer, but to give you some insight as I work in the HVAC industry. You state that your unit is R22, which is no longer produced and being phased out of usage. The price per pound for R22 has skyrocketed in this past year, and will only continue to increase as it grows more scarce. The verbiage for both statements that the owner initialed on the invoice are pretty standard and not 100% indicative that your unit is defective. A recharge may be all your system needed at the time, and it can be assumed it was operating properly upon completion of the recharge. Stating that the recharge may not continue cooling is simply establishing that the unit could possibly have a slow leak that was unable to be detected at the time of the recharge. Leak detection and repair can be a time consuming process itself, all of which any tech is going to take into account when advising the customer of their options moving forward. The second box saying repairs are not advisable and system replacement is recommended ties back to your system being R22 - the cost of repairing any potential leaks down the line or converting your existing system to a more environmentally friendly refrigerant is not going to be a cost effective solution when taking the rising cost and future availability of R22 into account. It is unfortunate if your system does end up needing replacement, but it is possible the seller was acting in good faith at the time of sale.
If the system was empty, I doubt they would have added any refrigerant into it because that would mean there was a leak. They would have drawn a vacuum on the lines and monitored the gauges for an hour, and if the vacuum dropped, they would not have added charge into the lines. They would have informed the owner of the leak and then used their leak detector tool to sniff out the leak and solder it. There would be no reason for them to recharge the system which would simply be empty again within a week. If it's been functioning fine since, you probably have no leak and the invoice was typical attempt to upsell the owner on a new $13000 system because of its age and the scarcity of R22. That does not mean proof of any defects.
This is the best answer you're going to get. Unless the system is not functioning due to a leak, and you don't have repair damages because it is in working order for a system of that design, you have no recourse with the seller. If the system is 20 years old (due to the age of the refrigerant), it may have been the first time in its life that it was serviced. As part of the maintenance, they would have put pressure gauges on the lines to measure the charge of the system. A system can lose charge over time due to a variety of factors. Most likely, they were topping it off and advising that they were inconclusive in determining why it lost charge, and not guaranteeing any warranty that it would last since they didn't make any repairs. The only way for them to make a guarantee would be a full replacement of a system, which is unrealistic in all honesty.
You should keep the invoice just in case. But if you have serious doubts you may want to have the system inspected, pressurized, and sniffed for leaks so you have proof. That will be out of your pocket, because you have no claim against the seller without proof. Also, as a buyer, you should keep in mind that if the system had been replaced, you would have paid more for it in your purchase price.
Also, one last thing... this is a recharge. You will NOT get a full HVAC system out of a leak repair. The absolute most you would need is a new compressor outside, and that is assuming the coil has rusted to hell and has pinhole leaks everywhere in the coil that are not reparable. If there was a leak at a regular solder joint, it's a fairly quick repair that costs a couple hundred dollars.
Hvac companies add refrigerant all the time without repairing leaks to get "people running" for cheap while they make up their mind if they want to repair or replace the unit.
First of all if it was at or near empty that would most likely mean its a large leak not a small one. The service call info would contribute to the techs most viable diagnosis. On an empty system a technician would most likely charge the system with the correct amount of refrigerant or charge it with nitrogen. If he notices an immediate leak then he would just stop as his gauges would never fill. No technician would draw a vaccum on diagnosis. Furthermore no technician would stare at his gauges for an hour as you can tell instantly whether the you have sufficient vaccuum if theres a leak.
If the system was empty or near empty. Nobody would have drawn a vacuum on lines and stared at gauges for an hour.
If the leak was repaired he would absolutely 100% get a fully functioning HVAC system no matter if the unit was 30 years old.
If its still functioning now it does not mean there is no leak. The unit was only refilled 3 months ago and was topped off with 3lbs, it has a leak! Maybe the unit still has sufficient charge to run the unit but not efficiently. Couple that with the cooler weather and less run time means it just hasn't lost its charge yet.