You didn't even attempt to answer my question, Addicted, so please refrain from responding to me, as your intention isn't to help anyone by fostering understanding through thoughtful discussion. You'd rather have preconceived notions of a person you know very little about, then attack them ad hominem, simply for having a dissenting viewpoint. I don't care if you don't like guns. Whatever your reasoning is for not liking guns, is exactly that. Its YOUR logical progression, not mine. I'm not asking to get a gun so I can shoot people. I'd simply like to have the chance to defend myself or my family when needed. My, "life, career, location", etc., are irrelevant to externalities, like, say, random people who wish to do myself or anyone in my proximity, harm, with a deadly weapon.
I had bad things when I was younger, and the best thing I did was to always pay for professional advice. Do not let things to luck .
Firearms "to protect". Is nonsensical. If we had a better civilization. We wouldn't need firearms. This wasn't to judge you.
Downvote me all you want. It doesn't make your viewpoint, or anything you've tried to convey, valid. All it does, is prove my statements correct, while also showing your unwillingness to reason by process of logic, as you seem to be unable to justify any of your statements. It's understandable, though. You first go directly against the whole point of this subreddit by not offering me legal advise. You, instead, would rather offer me derision. You then assume my, "life, career, location" without knowing a single thing about me, and when confronted, you resort to downvoting me like a petulant child. I'm genuinely scared for the people you're on here giving "legal advise" to.
It's just very sad we have so much violence and that some of us on this civilization, we have to own lethal weapons.
Yes, it is sad we have so much violence, but taking weapons out of law-abiding citizens hands will do nothing but encourage more violence. Those criminals aren't going to just give up their firearms. Even if they didn't have firearms, they'd be using bats, swords, knives, hammers, etc., like in the E.U., and we'd be getting dismembered or lit on fire instead of shot, with absolutely no way to defend ourselves.
Stop trying to push your beliefs onto others, especially when you seemingly don't even understand basic facts, like, countless lives are saved each year by defensive use of firearms, more than those who are killed. Last time I checked, there were around 45k gun deaths per year, over half of which, were suicides. Around how many lives are saved from the defensive use of a firearm? Anywhere from over 60k- over 2 mil. Meaning, there's literally a benefit to having firearms in the community. Why do you choose to focus on only the negative? Have you been spoon-fed your information or somethin?
I haven't given you my opinion on anything relevant, Addicted. If you don't believe me, provide context and quote me directly.
Again. How you feel about firearms is irrelevant. The fact of life, is, there are terrible people in this world who wish to do terrible things to innocent people and we all should be afforded the basic right to defend ourselves from these people who wish to do us harm. They are all over the world and can come after you, your loved ones, or the people around you, at any time. You can give yourself a greater chance of getting yourself killed, but I want to be able to defend myself instead of being forced to rely on the police, who will likely be far off from the second/s I'd need them to be there if someone legitimately tried to take my life.
The murder rate comparison between our country and most of Western Europe (and the rest of the first world, TBH) speaks for itself.
Removing guns won't solve all the problems, but we need to do something to address the violence problem that is endemic in our society.
Again, the entire point of being on this subreddit, is to give or seek legal advise. When you decided to act as the arbiter of all things moral and judge me, you went directly against the point of being here, so your input isn't relevant/needed.
You literally only said anything about a layer, yesterday, after I told you your intention here isn't to give legal advise, so again, your comment isn't relevant.
Again, you're judging me, while complaining about people on reddit for being judgemental. Let that sink in...
You're right. I didn't give legal advice at that eariler comment. Notice that then I've said you should pay for actual lawyer.
It's sad that for "having no money for food", you've tried to get some by stealing. I also had a precarious life, at 18, had been asked to leave home because I was an adult. And I've served in the millitary.
You then bring up another topic, your past, as if its relevant. What were you even trying to convey? Were attempting to project moral authority over me? Again, you're acting like a petulant child and this is the last time I'll be responding to you, as this will never be productive.
While I don't condone what I did, or any transgression, for that matter, you have absolutely no insight into the scenario whatsoever, so don't act as if you're understanding of what transpired, and are therefore capable of judging me.