I am not a big expert on dogs but that definitely sounds bad, and I approve of intervening. Obviously you can try to do this through just confronting the neighbor or something, and that might be effective.
If you're looking for legal advice though, the main option is to call the authorities - animal control.
Honestly, the dog ending up in a shelter, even one that might end up humanely euthanizing this dog, is better than doing nothing. A humane death is better than a life of nothing but suffering. If you want the dog to not be euthanized, you could always adopt it yourself or rehabilitate it and find a family to adopt it yourself.
They are unlikely to do anything good for the dog. They might evict the neighbor for the damage the neighbor is causing by letting the dog shit all over the porch. But that doesn't mean the dog won't end up locked in a cage in someone else's building instead. The front office might call animal control but they might not.
this is very helpful, and I do agree with you that an ethical death beats an abusive life. Unfortunately if we were to adopt the dog, I don’t believe we’d be able to offer it much of a better life, so I hesitate to offer any sort of altruistic help.
However, where I am, in Oregon, there is basically no way a young German shepherd surrendered to any of the local shelters or (especially) the Oregon Humane Society, would end up euthanized unless it had a serious, untreatable health issue or very severe aggression problems.
So don't necessarily let that stop you from reporting this situation to your local animal control services.
It's worth calling animal control . The bar for animal cruelty is very high, and this may not meet it legally (though it does to me.. shame on these people), but a visit from animal control might make them clean up their act. Also, if animal control investigates and discovers it IS animal abuse, isn't going to the shelter better than sitting in his or l own waste and never being walked? At least shelter dogs get walked. And maybe someone better will adopt him. Nal, but used to work in the animal world.