Comparing Maddison's data/estimates for UK, Western Europe, all of Europe except Russia, and India for 1700 and 1950, we have:
where populations are in millions, GDPs are in billions of 1990 international $, and GDP per capita is in international $ (data from the Maddison Project, Maddison's original data). The data are estimates only, but are reasonable estimates. Basic subsistence level is a GDP per capita of 400.
In 1700, India did not have a 1/4 share of the world's economy because Indians were rich, but because India had about 1/4 of the world's population. Most Indians in 1700 were farmers living little above a basic subsistence level (after paying their taxes and/or rent, they would be at close to subsistence level). Britishers of the time were, on average, over twice as wealthy.
To be clear, Maddison wasn't exactly wrong. India was indeed quite poor, he just did not have much solid basis for providing a quantity, and did it anyway. It's just amusing that the Maddison dataset was described with such reverence when the underlying data was so flimsy. The latest versions of the Maddison database, populated with better data from Broadberry and Gupta, rather than guesstimates, would not change the overall picture of India's sharply declining share of world GDP.
According to Maddison's estimate of the Indian economy of 1700, Indians were better off at the end of the colonial period, but not by much - most Indians were still farmers living little above a basic subsistence level. India was still predominantly rural at independence, with an urbanisation rate of 17% (and still only 31% in 2011).
While it can't be correctly said that British colonial rule made India poorer (because Indians, and India as a whole, became richer under British rule), it is fair to say that the British did not promote industrialisation and economic growth in India anywhere near as much as they could have. If we look at economic growth in uncolonised non-Western countries from 1700 to 1950, the GDP per capita of Iran increased from an estimated 600 to 1720, Turkey from 600 to 1623, Thailand from 570 to 817, Nepal from 400 to 496. Despite colonial rule, Sri Lankan GDP per capita increased from 550 to 1253. Very slow growth in some uncolonised countries (e.g., Thailand and Nepal) shows that lack of promotion of industrialisation and economic growth can happen without colonialism. So it's hard to say exactly how much economic impact British colonial rule had on India. It clearly wasn't positive, but it's impossible to quantify.
To add a little detail, amusing for this quote in particular: The Maddison database circa 2005 had little more than a wild guess for Indian GDP/capita in 1700. So, the "pains" he "took" to come up with this "painstaking" statistic were to figure "hey, since India was pretty poor back then, GDP/capita should be sorta somewhere around 550, that's a nice round number." He was, charitably, making an educated guess based on his inferences about levels and trends.