In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Also there are multiple jurisdictions, different investigations and both state and federal charges..
It would have been great to have Americans calling for the same criminal charges against literal war mongering pigs who cost millions of people everything they had at the expense of the US tax payer but gain of the corporations and their stakeholders.
How about America starts dealing with its other war criminals instead of keeping the spotlight on the same person every single day for many years on end... So many significant questions worth asking and other topics worth debating that just continue to go on ignored because the American people like a giant mass of peasants with their pitchforks continue to only focus on ONE man..
Not the men who cost 10 million + people their homes and millions their lives in the Middle East as in the presidents before him.. Forget all of that.. Keep pointing your finger at the same guy for one thing after the other even when video evidence exists showing Jan. 6th police sitting idol and even assisting some of these "rioters" to cause damage and harm.. It makes you wonder if it was all just a way to continue to play the blame game on the same guy while ignoring much more significant issues...
How about we let the investigations finish. We just learned today that Mark Meadows was burning documents. I don't understand why people think they know enough about what's going on. Do you want him arrested, or do you want him prosecuted and found guilty?
I never said that. I said we should let the investigations finish. If they were to bring charges they would. I was trying to explain that we are actually in no position to know what they're investigating, let alone whether or not they're ready to file any charges.
They will bring charges when they have a case that can win. None of us know what's going on or what information and evidence they have.