The old answer being linked discussed tournaments, but if we're talking battles, then the grand cavalry charge had largely passed its heyday, at least in the context of the Hundred Years' War and its surrounding conflicts in the Low Countries and Castile. The English experience against Scottish schiltroms at engagements like Bannockburn in 1314 resulted in a transition to largely fighting on foot and only mounting for pursuits, save for small flanking contingents. Following their defeat at Crécy in 1346, the French also modified their tactics, and at Poitiers ten years later they mostly approached the Black Prince's army dismounted – those that were mounted seem to have been shot to pieces rather mercilessly. Interestingly, though, English armies on campaign were becoming increasingly mounted, to the point where in 1359 almost all of Edward III's archers were expected to have at least one horse, but fighting in battle was nonetheless primarily supposed to be done on foot.
To paraphrase by /u/Hergrim, Philip Contamine's War in the Middle Ages holds up well for this late medieval period, but there are better options for anything pre-1300.
Interestingly, at least some of the French had already done so. After his defeat at the Battle of Morlaix, Charles of Blois fought Sir Thomas Dagworth at Saint-Pol-de-Léon using almost all dismounted men-at-arms, save for 40 on the best armoured horses who attacked with the infantry against the English rear.
Even earlier, at Morlaix, Charles might not have attempted a full frontal assault at first. Geoffrey de Charny apparently led the first attack with "many helmets", but didn't fall into the trench or pits dug by the English. This might have been a mounted flanking attack, as the French would do repeatedly in their attempts to defeat the English archers, but it's also possible that the "helmets", rather than being men-at-arms as some authors have interpreted it, were in fact the Genoese crossbowmen and possibly the best armoured of the infantry making a dismounted attack designed to break up the English formation through missile fire so that the men-at-arms could charge. This would be on par with French tactics before and after Morlaix, and also has echoes of Courtrai. A third attack might also have been made by the infantry, or they may have been attacking in support of the cavalry during the second push (the sources aren't clear).
The French appear to have tasked two mounted forces, one on either wing of the first battle, in order to charge the archers and protect the dismounted men-at-arms, shieldbearers and crossbowmen. One wing seems to have fallen into an English trap, trying to exploit a gap in the hedge that appeared undefended, only to be funnelled into a narrow laneway and find the gap suddenly defended, with archers on their flank. The second wing held up much better and was impervious to the English arrows, at least until the English found a path through the marsh and flanked them so that they could attack the undefended hindquarters of the horses (the same marsh prevented a charge against the archers in front of them). There might also have been an English cavalry charge at this point, depending on how you interpret the sources.
The general flaw in the French tactics seems to be less their actual tactics than their application of them to the situation at hand and generally poor discipline and control by the commanders. Most of the time, they have the right idea, but just can't quite make it work. Crecy is a classic example, where the Genoese crossbowmen would probably have been quite effective if they hadn't been exhausted by marching and lacking their pavises (and if they hadn't been trying to load their crossbows in the mud), and would have been even more successful if some of the flanking attacks made later in the battle had been simultaneous to their attack.