It’s not just “he said she said” as you have medical evidence. Either way, your legal options are to raise your concerns with your DA’s office and/or consult an attorney for civil action. The alleged perpetrator doesn’t have to cooperate with the investigation.
A counselor/psychologist experienced in sexual assault may be able to help you navigate through this. Obtaining one and giving your daughter the support she needs should be your first priority.
Here’s the reality I think hasn’t settled in, and that probably feels incredibly frustrating as a parent who wants justice: it’s quite possible going through a trial would be more traumatic for your daughter than helpful. Your legal obligation as a parent is to do what is in the best interest of your child, and that might well be focusing on her healing instead of prosecuting this 13-year-old (who, since he is a child himself, would likely at a maximum spend some months in a juvenile detention facility, get no substantive help, and be released).
If you want to pursue civil action against the parents (you cannot sue a child), that is certainly your right. I think most people in their situation would be thrilled to settle for paying for the medical bills given the gravity of the offense. Just be careful before dragging your daughter into legal action when she is in such a vulnerable place emotionally. Her healing should be above all else.
Don't think of it as your daughter "did very little to help the case." She is doing what she can right now. Just because she did not talk in the forensic interview does not mean she won't talk later. I know you want justice. You may have to look at it as wanting someone held "accountable." That's how I make peace with myself in my cases. I personally don't get to determine what justice is. What I CAN do is try to hold people accountable. Where they have to answer to the charges.
Where do you live? At least in the US where I live, there are Children's Advocacy Centers around the country that work in conjunction with the courts, to help advocate for child sex abuse victims, to help support the parents through it, there's counseling for both kids and parents, etc., at least from the ones I know of, the cost is free because it's through federal crime survivor funds. There are also sexual violence resource centers, that do the same but usually for adults, they may know of similar services for kids in the area, too. EDIT: of course it should go without saying,but im so sorry this happened to your daughter. that's a traumatizing thing to go through. you're doing the right thing in trying to support her.
Bottom line though, I'm sorry this happened to your daughter. Please look at counseling or play therapy for her. Too many times my cases stem (ultimately) from abuse that was not dealt with when it occurred. Good luck.