Ok i dealt with this before and the best thing you can do is go to the public library, school library, or a network unaffected and create new emails, The allegled stalker is clearly just trying to get you to react to get them to say that YOU are stalking them. I know the libraries are closed right now and what not. Practically you want to go to walmart and buy a tracfone with at least 2gb of ram and use it for emails and stuff on Wifi BUT no phone calls. Then buy a whole different phone maybe the same brand and use it JUST for phone calls and use a dummy email when you first set it up or factory reset it if you put your main email by muscle memory and put a new email. Really you just need a burner phone. Next, you want to invest in x2 gaiters (masks things), the phone belts like from ghostek, 256gb sd card, a cheap probook from 2011 to transfer files (remove WiFi chip and do not connect to internet), 4tb teratybe and ANOTHER phone . You want to audit ALL your accounts via a bodycam and NOT stuff like OBS studios alone because clearly they can hack / phish into your devices and can legit just delete your recordings of harassment. Ok you would want to now wear a gaiter, use the phone clip, attach it around your neck making it so if someone jumped you and wanted to take your phone , they would literally need to apply enough force to break your neck and leaving a bloody crime scene or someone have so much time to figure out how to unclip it readily while you can legit can fight back because there hands will be so busy trying to remove your now newly acquired bodycam. You also should use tails on another seperate laptop, as it's specific mission is to help victims of stalking, and then you should audit your activity with a bodycam in case that crazy guy / girl, furry says your using tails for illegal activity and if it ever goes to trial, invoke your 7th amendment of the u.s constitution and demand a jury trial and all the times and dates of all activities shown on the bodycam will not only prove this guy was stalking you, but you were innocent (Sun Tzu, art of war) . You are at war EVERY time you are on the internet, military generals know the enemy is actively trying to hack into their devices. Every single keyboard warrior has inevitable went through this war, he isn't stalking you anymore, he outright delcare war on your individuality by requesting assimilation of his ideology of 'friendship', and don't be fooled, it's indoctrination. Get some serious security cameras too but expect those to be hacked if they are in the cloud, so rely on multiple systems like offline methods in addition to cloud services. Even if he isn't near you, he may use the authority of the government to stalk you playing victim , especially when you close in on him with your tanks of full blown truth and facts, a internet warrior is most dangerous when he is exposed with the truths at which he denies to himself when he knows it to be true , the only solution is to righteously uphold the U.S Constitution and defend it because nationality indoctrinates a new enemy, the new rich enemies abroad, known only by what the nationalitist party says what it is at a time. Now if you excuse me, I have some blocks to mine in minecraft.
It's not your job to prove the identity of the stalker. The police can issue subpoenas and require service providers to produce documents.
Rhode Island has a statute concerning . Make a report with your local law enforcement agency via the non-emergency line. Start documenting everything this person is doing.
There is no way to force the police to investigate a crime. You can contact a local victim services organization and also consider filing a report with the FBI.