That's wrong flag pictured on the preview. Lukashenko regime flag is Red-Green, but here is showing White-Red-White flag which is old flag of Belarus before Lukashenko came to power(he changed that flag to Red-Green).
White-Red-White flag is associated with democratic Belarus, opposition and also belarusian volunteers are fighting for Ukraine under this flag.
Regardless of the occasion I feel like anyone flying a Russian flag at the moment can fuck off. Flying a Russian flag can only mean one thing right now, and that is war support.
I don't have a problem with the average Russian. But if you're flaunting Russia in a Ukrainian match, then fuck you and feel free to go back to Russia if you have a problem with my statement.
I fully support the war, on the Ukrainian side. I support sending as much military aid as can be sent. I support the destruction of any tool Russia uses in it's attack on Ukraine. And I do mean absolutely any tool. Including their propaganda machines and their factories. Yes I do support the war in Ukraine. I hope it leads to the complete destruction of what Russia is.
I have to agree and disagree. Russia is the problem. Russia allowed Putin to stay in power. Some people can say, what could they do they had no choice. Whether that is wrong or right is not supposed to be Ukraine's problem. Russia attacked and Russia needs to be repelled and then obliterated as it is today. They need to lose their ability to fight because it seems for the most part they've already lost the will.
Now where I agree is that I don't think war is a good thing. In the simplest terms one person in charge besides he wants to fight. So what happens is millions other have to die because this one person in charge didn't personally want to fight. They just wanted the benefits if the fight was won. But they wanted to hide behind their millions of soldiers safely and just bark orders. I personally think it would have been hilarious if Putin had challenged Zalenski to a boxing match.
Now before all you grammar and spelling nazis decided to pick this post apart keep in mind it was done with Google Voice.
And I guess I have to insist you're phrasing your point wrong. Because Russia is clearly the problem. Now not All-russian people are the problem. But wake can possibly agree to disagree cause it's gonna be a stupid argument.
And I can already picture and imagine the wide array of responses I'm going to get to refute my last statement there. So I'm going to preemptively say you're all wrong refuse to comment any further on this thread.
Yeah, I was raised to d ok what's right because it's right. Often, it doesn't benefit me, sometimes harms me, but it's right. Put someone in charge who thinks that way and problems start to get solved.