The vagueness to what extent there was interference is on purpose. Them being open about it is propaganda, largely for domestic consumption. What it is doing is saying "We are still powerful enough to change the outcome of your political system". To what extent? We don't know, but from previous examples it seems the extent was buying Facebook ads, and hacking into politicians emails. It is important. Very important for Russia to maintain an image of strenh and power on international stage.
Especially now that Russia is losing a lot of it's international prestige - especially among it's own neighbors - it has to maintain an air of strenh and power.
Just because they "all" do it, which is not true, and the Dems are doing that legally, does it make it right for Russia to pay republicans and republicans to work with and for them against America? There is a monumental difference between the two. Come on.
And as far as Democrats going? My dude. How do you come up on stage and make a huge fuss about "fighting for democracy", and that your opponents are fascists who want to destroy democracy, while actively spending 50+ million dollars to fund their campaigns?
Democrats have literally funded the MAGA republicans because they think they will be easier to beat. But now that they are winning they aren't going to take a single ounce of blame for it? Come on.
I get the strategy. But it really exposes how utterly hollow the Democrats are. How are other Democrats or Progressives not outraged at this?
You're gonna have to really substantiate the argument that "Russia to pay Republicans to work with and for them against America" part. That's a bold accusation. I totally understand Russian agents lobbying US represenetatives for better relations, but outright against America? That's an accusation of treason, and that's not a light charge to make without some concrete evidence.
- Benton and wead, two republican officials charged with 6 felony counts for funneling Russian money into campaigns.
Republicans are now cheering for Russia and wanting to end aid to Ukraine. They are taking Putin's side against the Us, which trump also did in Helsinki and whenever he had the chance.
So you get the strategy. You can understand how they think it will help them win. I don't think it's a good strategy but it's not on the level of working for another country. It's two different things that you want to compare but they are completely different, one is highly illegal and "treasonous" (which it's not because we aren't at war with them).
This is the same party that championed an insurrection to overthrow democracy over a lie, a party that got us into a 20.
Year war over a lie to enrich their friends and somehow you think this party is a friend to America? This is the same party that voted against multiple.
Also remember that manafort was also a campaign manager for Putin's puppets in Eastern Europe, namely Ukraine. He was asking the oligarchs how he could "get whole" from his position with trump. He brokered the voting data with the Russians.
Remember also that Russia hacked the RNC emails too, but those weren't released, that they met with Trump and team to help him win the election and in return he gave the big oligarchs leniency on Sanctions, as well as allowed them to keep their spies here.
So far the only thing I know about is the Clinton campaign pushing Trump stories on CNN to get a reaction from the Right. But that’s really about it. Like when GOP and Fox went crazy over Howard Dean in the 2004 primaries. It’s a false equivalency at best and just plain whataboutism.
More like. All these guys in red are punching me in the dick. All these guys in the blue are paying them to punch me in the dick while trying to convince me that they are the good guys.
Because that's what I am talking about. Democrats have spent 50+ million dollars to boost MAGA Republicans in various primary elections because they think they will be easier to beat. What happens when they lose anyway and now instead of some moderate Republicans winning, you have the MAGA crowd? How is that okay? How is there not more outrage towards this?
The thing about whataboutism is that if you aren't holding up to the values you are accusing the other side of doing then you are no better, and in fact, worse, in that you are a hypocrite. And people really hate the hypocrisy. One of the main reasons why trust in our institutions across all level is exactly due to whataboutism. I get, absolutely get, that "whataboutism" is used to deflect from the "bad thing", but simultaneously it does bring into attention as to why there are two different standards, when we argue that it should be equal.
In regards to this, here is talking about 53 million dollars that the Democrats have spent on MAGA republicans in the GOP primaries.
Democrats do not make a good case about fighting for the "soul of this country" or "fighting for Democracy this mid-term", when they are cynically funding the very candidates that they believe are doing it just so they can have a better shot at winning. Because if or when they do lose to these MAGA republicans, it'll be on their hands.
Utilizing the press is one thing, and that’s within the rules. Just ask Jefferson and Adams. And running for weaker opposition is also within the rules if poor taste. But comparing that to enabling foreign interference from a autocratic nation is not equivalent.
Yes, it's also Prigozhin's play for personal power internally too. There's a fair amount more internal reflection in the Russian government right now, and Prigozhin is trying to market himself as one of the few capable individuals.
Maria Butina - you mean having foreign agents try to get themselves involved in US lobbying firms to develop relationships? Yeah, Russia did that, so do many other countries, and in fact Butina was also organizing meetings with Obama administration as well. Michael Flynn's entire issue was that he was registered foreign agent of Turkey, not Russia.
Flynn was a foreign agent as well. Carter page worked with Russia heavily before the campaign, which is why he was chosen.
Well, in my case I am speaking strictly from the view that Russia actually isn't as influential as it wants to be. And I treat everything that comes out of Russia, especially anyone with ties to Putin, and the FSB, as first and foremost a propaganda piece. I also view that it is important for Russia to overstate their influence on the rest of the world, especially to it's surrounding neighborhood. And given that this war has been going terribly for Russia, and that they are losing influence every damn day especially with countries like Kazakhstan, it is important to analyze this from the lens of to "what effect does being open about this have".
Yes Trump did work with the Russians, but why would they stop there, when republicans and those who don't really care about America are cheap?
Republicans themselves know that there are members paid by Putin. Paul Ryan and McCarthy were recorded saying so, McCain made a statement on the senate floor saying Rand Paul, while delivered notes to Putin, worked for russia. Russian spy's were also mingling and gathering intel from republicans.