In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I wish the messaging on this stuff was more clear so more reasonable people could see that it’s less about ‘punishing Trump’ and more about protecting us as a people.
>Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washinon told former President Donald Trump on Thursday that if he tries to return to the White House or runs for any other political office in 2024, the D.C.-based watchdog will, using the 14th Amendment's anti-insurrectionist clause, attempt to disqualify him for fomenting last year's deadly right-wing riot at the U.S. Capitol.
I think most people would support the idea that anyone running to be president should be able to pass the same background check for security clearance as any other high level official. No one running this country should have significant financial ties to foreign governments or have significant associations to groups that have sworn to destroy the US government, among many other issues identified in a high level background check. Forcing all candidates to do that would eliminate a guy like a Trump, period, even without the 14th amendment. But at this point, since we don’t have that requirement, then the people deserve to have the man’s taxes to see his financial ties and they deserve to know what he was doing with classified documents and they deserve to see him brought to court regarding his attempt to overthrow the government. We need to bar a potentially dangerous threat from running this country and putting our lives at risk.
There is no if. He is waiting till after the midterms and before his deadline on Mara Lago documents in order to maximize litigation efforts and grifting. And to be completely honest, Trump running in 2024 will only help further the demise of the Republican Party.