Requesting or offering private messages or chats is against the rules of this subreddit. Please review the following rule before commenting further.
The question: Is it illegal to not hire someone based on their gender within the Weed Business in the State of California in the United States on Planet Earth. I don’t know how you missed that.
Please . If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, . Do not make a second post or comment.
That is the question isn’t it? How does one prove you were discriminated against? This would normally be the part where I’d go into a philosophical rant about how we prove anything, maybe provide evidence, even try to persuade those who are Downvoting my responses and this post, BUT that’d be not only a waste of time because nobody cares what I have to say. It’s better I stop complaining and apply for another job like McDonalds, Starbucks, Amazon, or Walmart.
The question: Is it illegal to Discriminate the hiring of an applicant based on their gender within the Weed Business in the State of California in the United States?
Sounds like most bars in Cali with an attractive female staff would have had issues if it were a thing.
Sex sells. Especially when pushing alcohol at bars, or drugs at a dispensary. Hiring “hot girls” is pretty common. You could be the one diversity guy who works at Hooters, or go find something better suited to you.
If a Woman applies to a Construction Job and is turned down because reasons that you might be able to come up with because societal norms that exist and are common practice is that acceptable?
Now I’m what cases is it ok for a business to discriminate who does and doesn’t get hired based only on their gender? This is a serious question. I ask so I can know. My IQ is low and I’m trying to boost it by asking the Big Brains of Reddit.
Question B. Should more people be upset over this issue or should we just accept that’s just how the industry is?
Do you have a real situation you’re trying to ask about, because nothing you’ve asked is specific enough to tell you anything.
I went from using numbers to letters because it felt tense while typing the post, so I attempted to toss in some humor. Obviously my grasp on humor is as good as my grasp on what is and isn’t an acceptable question on Reddit.
My main question is: WHY IS IT OK TO COMPLETELY IGNORE MEN UNLESS THEY NETWORK THE HECK OUT OF THE PROCESS, & WHY IS IT OK TO HIRE MAINLY A HYPER-SPECIFIC DEMOGRAPHIC OF WOMEN?