In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Now ask yourself how much we can trust police, especially when it comes to more vulnerable populations. Been to a "leftist" protest? Hmm, you suddenly seem mentally unfit.
You have it backwards on lawsuits. Gun rights people want wins to actually get their rights respected. Legal nonsense that ends with a bad law still on the books doesn't do anything for them. There have been victories for gun rights through lawsuits. That's actually how most victories have been happening. See the last couple of gun rights cases the supreme court ruled on. Similar cases are coming down the pipe for assault weapon bans and capacity limits. This particular law is going to have challenges as it's requiring a permit but not actually setting up or funding the mechanics to allow people to obtain it. Probably also on the mag limits thing too but that will likely be put on hold pending the other cases about similar laws.
The gun enthusiasts can claim "victory" and keep their death-dealing toys, the lawyers make money, and every year that goes by another 50,000 people die, 100,000 are injured, and another $229 billion is spent dealing with the consequences.
If you're already starting out the conversation using phrases like "death-dealing toys" it doesn't really seem like you'd be open to the idea of gun rights exist.
The gun control on the other hand absolutely loves lawsuits that don't go anywhere but that's because they can cause financial damage to manufacturers as a overall strategy to reduce access or force the manufacturer to implement something dumb like an internal lock.
Oh, gun rights do exist, but the kind of gun enthusiasts who treat their guns as toys are the ones for whom those rights must be proscribed, because exercising our rights entails taking responsibility for their use.
Sorry, but you aren't treating it as a right if you are in favor of fees, courses, or approval from the police. The cops weren't give a budget with the demands placed on them so good luck with having a functional way to obtain classes or permits. At best you're looking at a $65 fee plus course fees/time in order to access a right. That is treating as a privilege.
This is the United States. Lawyers file lawsuits more often than they change their underwear. They're not really intended to succeed, just get an injunction that hangs around for the years it takes a case to grind through the courts.