No. In his words it wasn't to his standards. The apartment wasn't literally spotless. Ceiling looks like it's about to cave in my apartment and the wiring is messed up with a four year expired fire extinguisher. 🤷🏼‍♀️🙍🏼‍♀️.
It doesn't say anything about it. I looked it over and a lot seems kinda illegal. By the fact that it's hard to even relax now and I can't drive currently because of some pop up seizures.
I’d inform him you will be out At the end of July. Since he has to give you 30 days also I’d inform him that he is not allowed to use stop by without a 24 hour notice. What does your lease say about random stop bys?
Does he have a key and just walk in or does he knock or ring the doorbell? If he knocks I’d just inform anyone who plans to come see me that unless a message is sent ahead of time I will not be answering the door! I wouldn’t tell him this, I just wouldn’t answer the door unless you expected someone. Maybe even get a wifi camera so you can see whose at the door on your phone so you don’t have to answer.
I’m in Kansas, & was a landlord in the state. Did you get 30 days notice and were served by the court with eviction by a certain date? If not, you leave as soon as you can & before the date on the court order.
What the landlord “wants” or “expects” means nothing. What is required by the court matters. At any rate, you can assume you will not get any deposit back. Sounds like they may try to assign damages for new carpet.
Just get gone and move on with a new life away from a bad landlord. I tried to be a good one, but still had to evict once. An eviction is an exact date, a lease renewal is not the same kind of contract.
He probably has a renter on the 1st. He needs the days to paint, repair to prep for the new tenant. It is a bad faith expectation from the Landlord. If he doesn’t have it in a contract, or a court order, he can go kick rocks.
If you do not have a Notice from the court to be vacated by the 26th, you do not have to leave. You can check with the county to see if there is an eviction on file (you would have been served for it to be valid). Most counties use a system called case-net, you can look up by your name on the lease.
Essentially you have legal possession of the home until you vacate it. For your safety I would avoid leaving your property unattended until you move out. If you can find a place to store anything while you wait for new place I would to avoid the landlord seizing (illegally) your property and changing locks.
I have seen some nasty things that landlords will do (knowing it is illegal). Your window of disagreement is 4 days, anything you can do to minimize the drama for those 4 days will help. Have documents available, know that police will not enforce any civil contract, the county sheriff does. Are you in Johnson or Wyandotte county?
I've been avoiding answering the door but I guess it's a plus for the peep hole though. Just don't understand how I pay $575 for a 1bd 1bth but found a $565 for 2bd 1bth for my son coming around August 18th. Saw the place asked questions. Dang dino furnaces.
I have heard of landlords “curbing” someone and changing the locks while they were at work. It is illegal AF, but slumlords know the people they tossed out can not afford to get them back in court. If he “curbs” you, don’t let it happen to everything you own.
I didn't get either. He just has been showing up unannounced and it's put extreme stress on me. He stopped trying to contact me before showing up and I'm just stuck until the 1st of August. He already took this months rent.
Sounds like a typical slumlord. Uses threats to evict instead of legal systems. Probably can not evict legally due to not having proper rental licenses or insurance (costs significantly more for insurance on rental vs owner occupied). If he is not legal in his rental, he probably intends to “curb” you. Be vigilant and don’t let them in the house.
My husband and I have a system where if I don't have appointments at my OBGYN he'll go out and I'll guard the fort or I'll go out and he'll guard it. Just have to keep ducking and weaving because it's just about to get a ton harder to do my appointments unless I have to go alone a little more.
If you can afford it, I would recommend putting anything you value in a self storage, there are several in Lawrence and a 5x5 often costs under $50 for the month. You do not need all your dishes, cookware, clothing, furniture & Television. If he is really harassing you, you can file for an OOP (restraining order), but filing one without merit is a crime as well. If you have heirlooms, musical instruments, you can store them with a friend or co-worker you trust in case things get ugly.
He left a message on my phone today and basically felt like a threat because I'm unable to pay up now and I don't know if it's legal because I'm scared. I've never been evicted but the place my husband and I were looking at declined us because we made a 100$ too much. I'm on disability and they would have me on maternal leave if I wasn't laid off my last job. I don't get paid until the 3rd and he expects rent on the 1st no exceptions.