If he molested or assaulted you 9 years ago, I think you're still within the statute of limitations to file a police report about it. If you've ever seen a therapist about this, they should have reported it. If you haven't seen a therapist, I'd encourage you to contact . They've got all sorts of resources to help you.
You're 18 now, making you an adult. There's nothing legally stopping you from cleaning out your bank account and opening one of your own.
I thought the statute of limitations was 7 years, and I’m 18, not 16, so it was over 9 years ago. The therapist I saw was a church therapist, and she said that she would not contact cps if he moved out of the house, so that’s what my parents made happen.
You should also work on reporting the therapist to law enforcement. She's a mandated reporter. Moving the offender out of the house doesn't negate her duty to report the abuse.
I should add too that I don't think you'll be able to get a restraining order at this point unless he's threatening to assault you again. The process involves you making a statement explaining why you want to restrict this person's movement. A report of something that happened 11 years ago (that nobody pursued legally) may not be enough. If you were to file a police report for his actions, and then request the RO at the same time, that might be enough.
If he faced legal troubles for something like child sexual assault, he might well be on the sex offender registry; that's free to check. Look up the sheriff's office in your county and check their website.
Again, I'd strongly encourage you to contact RAINN. This is what they're about: helping rape, abuse & incest survivors in their healing and legal processes. Their services don't cost you money, and they'll help you find low-cost alternatives for counseling.
Thank you so much for all your help. I checked, and he is not on the registry. It’s blurry for me, but I know he went away for what seemed like a long time (I don’t actually know how long) and later I heard he had court mandated therapy. Because he was also a minor, he might have had a deal or something. This is looking pretty hopeless for me. I really appreciate you taking the time to comment and try to help, you seem like a really decent person. I am currently seeing a different therapist, but she only knows vague details about what happened, I am seeing about getting an appointment sometime this week for help. Again, thank you.
OK, I can't math tonight. Sorry. At any rate, it turns out that the SoL may be 20 years. You also have 12 years to file a civil claim against him. Sexual offenses are covered in section if you'd like to look anything up; the only real difference is five years in the SoL.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
I don’t know what went wrong, I got a notification you replied but I can’t see it on the thread. I’m really sorry to be a bother, I don’t know how this app works yet.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.