Lebanon has had a continuously existing Christian population pretty much since the foundation of Christianity. There are 11 different confessions of Christians in modern day Lebanon, the largest group are the Maronites whose history goes hand in hand with Lebanon. During the Muslim conquests, the Maronites retreated to the Lebanese Mountains (which are the highest in the Middle-East I believe) where they were mostly safe from persecution. The Maronites were isolated from the rest of Christendom for several centuries, only renewing ties during the Crussades, at which the point the East-West schism had happened. However the Maronites swore fealty to the pope in Rome and basically became a catholic church (separate from the mainline Roman Catholic church) despite still retaining many characteristics of eastern churches, the most obvious example being that Maronite priests are allowed to marry (but if they do so they can no longer become bishops or hold certain other positions). Lebanon was pretty much created for the Maronites who at the time of the country's foundation still constituted the majority of its population (this statement may be somewhat controversial as this was not expressly stated at the time of modern Lebanon's creation but was heavily implied).
The second largest group are the Greek Orthodox, historically they mostly lived in the cities along the coast and co-existed with Muslims, some of them are remnants of the Byzantine empire, others decedents of Greek immigrants, etc...
The third group are the Greek Catholics (Melkite), they are basically an offshoot of the Greek Orthodox who reconciled with Rome and entered into communion with them during the 19th century. They are mostly concentrated in the East of the country in the Bekaa valley with some others in the South and Beirut, there are virtually none in the North for some reason.
The fourth group is Armenians (orthodox, catholics and protestants), all decedents of refugees from the massacres perpetrated against the Armenians by the Ottomans in the early 20th century. They are technically Lebanon's only ethnic minority, although you can't really tell them apart just from looking at them, but they do have somewhat different traditions, still largely use Armenian rather than Arabic (they will often not be very proficient in Arabic) and tend not to mix with the other groups as much. Their numbers have been dwindling rapidly in the past few decades as they have emigrated in larger numbers than other communities.
The other groups include Roman Catholics, mostly decedents of French and Italian emigrants. Protestants, mostly converted during the 19th and early 20th century. Syriacs, Copts, Chaldeans, all of whom are descended from emigrants and refugees from surrounding countries. These communities only number a few thousand each, I (having lived in Lebanon for most of my life) have never personally met any Lebanese Syriacs, Copts or Chaldeans (although I know of some), I've only met one or two protestants and a know a couple of Roman Catholic families (Maltese and Italian descendants).
For a brief overview of this see Eugene Rogan's The Arabs: A History but there is a lot of other literature on the French relationship with the Maronites, Maronite/Lebanese nationalism, Greater Lebanon, and related topics.
In general this topic is not a speciality of mine so I haven't done much reading on it, but I would poke around in the bibliographies of that book, Rogan's book, , perhaps volume 3 of the Cambridge History of Turkey The Later Ottoman Empire 1603-1839 which includes important context about, for example, the growth of Western trade in the region. There is also quite a lot of writing on this topic in French, as you might imagine, although I really can't comment on that body of work as I don't speak French and haven't spent much time focusing on the history of Greater Syria.
Edit: I would also just add that while you asked about Christians, there's also obviously an enormous amount of fascinating work that has been done on Zionism.
This is very interesting. Besides the book above can you recommend others on the topic of different Christian sects in the middle east and their relationships with the powers that be.
My other piece of advice is that you may have better luck in finding sources if look at countries/territories of the Middle East discretely, rather than as a whole. Most historians, sociologists, etc. of the Middle East specialize, typically down to the country level. So you're more likely to find, say, a work dealing with the history of Egypt's Copts than something more holistic that addresses, say, the history of the Copts and the Christians of Anatolia in the same book.
Well, you're really confusing two things here: historical Melkites and the (relatively) modern Greek Catholic Church. You are correct in saying that Melkites were around before the Catholic-Orthodox schism, just as Maronites were, but they did not per se constitute a separate church, with the 1054 schism Melkites largely became Orthodox and the Greek Orthodox of Antioch which we know today were for a time called Melkites. Once part of that community reconnected with Rome and became the Greek Catholic Church, they also sort of revived the term Melkite which today almost always refers to Greek Catholics. So Greek Catholics are indeed Melkites but they are not historically the only Melkites, just the only ones who held on to the appellation. The Greek Catholic (Melkite) Church as we know it today came into existence in 1724 when the then-patriarch of the Melkite Church established communion with Rome which led the Eccumenical patriarch of Constantinople to replace him with another Patriarch, those who followed the existing patriarch became Greek Catholics, those who recognized the newly appointed patriarch remained in line with the Eastern Orthodox church and thus remained known as Greek Orthodox.