You might talk to landlord about your desire for more clear notifications. Perhaps they'll point you back to the third item in the newsletter and suggest you sign up for text communications.
They seem to never be on the property or available when I go. I’m a full time student, I can’t sit at the office all day, day after day. I just don’t know what to do at this point.
You’re right, I agree. I guess I’ve just been pretty upset this morning after being woken up to strange voices in my living room and having multiple issues with the complex that haven’t been resolved regardless of the emails or phone calls I make. It must’ve clouded the fact that being unaware of the inspection was technically my fault.
Even if it wasn't enough notice there's nothing you can really do about a one off illegal entry. Multiple entries you can tell them to knock it off.
This happens to be the second time they entered my apartment in a similar manner. The first time was in January of this year. It was the first time hearing of a “quarterly inspection” and I had been living here for just shy of 6 months. During that time, I received an email about the inspection with a 7 day window period on when to expect them. They never showed up. They sent another email with another 7 day window period stating they were “continuing the inspections”. I voiced my concern because I had a few online proctored tests for school (the apartment is directed at students living near a college) and a few online doctors appointments that week and could not be disturbed for any of it. They said they understood and would get back to me with a more specific timeframe. They never did. Thankfully I wasn’t occupied when they eventually showed up. I have sent 2 emails now expressing my concerns on the inspection and how it was handled as well as some other concerns I have. No response.
Talk to your neighbors. See if they’ve had any luck. And while it sucks to miss class, I’ve never had a schedule where it was impossible 9-5 m-f weeks on end to go deal with a problem.