Yes I suppose a CPS employee might call from their personal cell phone. But no CPS probably wouldn’t launch an investigation over a 20 year old.
There are minors in the household. I have two underage siblings. However, when my age was brought up they didn’t mention either by name. Just referring them as, “Minors in the household.”.
They may not have full info based on whatever was said during the initial report. The reporter may have focused on the one individual but mentioned "other (minors/ kids/ younger siblings)" and it's their duty to investigate the call, flesh out the important details and will factor this info in an assessment.
Note, I'm in SC and going based on second hand knowledge of how DSS works based on my mom's nearly 20 years in APS. I know she had a work phone issued but that was a very recent roll out (relatively). For YEARS she had the pager issued to the "on call" employee that had to field incoming reports after hours. She absolutely called the ombudsman, PD and sometimes the reporter from our home phone.I can't speak directly for NCCPS, but if their budget is anything like SC's... Calls from personal lines wouldn't surprise me at all.
Just because someone isn't calling from a main office number doesn't mean they're calling from a personal number. Plenty of people have work cell phones issued to them. Probably even more since a lot of people have been working from home during the pandemic.
And sometimes workers get a stipend to pay for part of their personal phone bill, to use the personal phone for work purposes. So even a call from a personal number could be legit.
I work for a county agency (not CPS) and I was given the choice between these two options at the start of the pandemic.
The bar to keep one's kids without interference from CPS after an initial check on a complaint turns up nothing is incredibly low, and CPS is way too underfunded and understaffed to continue to go after people for no reason. I generally don't trust people who claim that CPS workers get their jollies harassing perfect parents because there's always more to the story, and the "more" is never "the nasty mean CPS worker decided to add to her 16-hour workday by taking me, the perfect parent, to court to take away my children for imaginary reasons.".