First, medical diplomacy was very cost effective for Cuba in that training doctors and carrying out those specific operations are comparatively not that expensive, but bring many diplomatic advantages as I discuss there.
Second, on Angola: it was central to the failure of the educational exchange in Angola is that it took place during a decades-long civil war. This exceptional situation was certainly more important than possible planning from Cuba. It also makes any thoughts on supposed Cuban purposes border on speculation.
And third, the official position of Cuba was of course that this was mutual support, and support for a (then) communist party that Cuba wanted to further ideological ties with. But assuming that Cuba had merely its own interests here would be too easy: in addition to education and doctors, large numbers of Cuban military troops came to Angola. Among other things, they had a decisive influence on the victory over South Africa in the Battle of Cuito Cuanavale, the largest battle on African soil since the Second World War. So the education initiative should already be seen as part of a larger exchange, from which Cuba also benefited, but for which it also put a lot at risk (including troops).
As I mentioned in my answer, this Cuban commitment is particularly evident after Angola, sometimes without expecting direct economic benefits from it. The medical school used to teach students from all over the world for free is a good example of this - it is also about long-term diplomatic exchange and gain.
Although the SADF achieved its objective of stopping the advance and protecting UNITA, FAPLA/Cuba also claimed victory in the battle. In a speech to the Cuban people delivered while visiting Cuba in 1991, repeatedly reiterated this view, and claimed that the battle of Cuito Cuanavale "marked an important step in the struggle to free the continent and our country of the scourge of apartheid." This perspective locates the outcome of the battle within the context of the withdrawal of the SADF from Angola and the independence of Angola.