I just wanted to let you know that although I’m not interested in the subject, I have the upmost respect for what you are doing. Maybe when you are done I’ll spend an afternoon reading through all of your wonderful comments.
Also from Rome, on the 28^th – page four, mixed in a potpourri of news – came the usual night update from the Capital, delivered by phone – and here arranged in a bizarre overlay of titles:
Whatever reasons kept Mussolini's attention away from the redaction of the Popolo d'Italia during the last week of July – whether he had to sort out internal frictions (a meeting of the executive committee of the Milanese Fascio was announced for the 28^th of July), or was understandably waiting for something new to happen, after the intense front coverage provided to the scioperissimo had somewhat depleted the “anti-socialist” investment of the public – it's quite apparent that, absent any strong immediate impulse, the “professionals” of the redaction had been left temporarily in charge, taking care of ordinary ongoing political matters, balancing the short-lived climate of armed truce with the “anti-national” Government of F.S. Nitti and the particular relevance of “national” themes for the Popolo d'Italia, as well as filling the voids left by the loss of urgency after the “colossal failure” of the socialist solidarity strike.
On July 28^th Mussolini's newspaper found room for an extensive, and not especially positive, examination of the new “artistic oddities” of Dadaism – courtesy of the younger De Chirico, Alberto Savinio. The movement which, from Switzerland, had spread to France, was “the consequence of the complete loss of any direction: of the corruption of any aesthetic, plastic, moral form” with the consequent corollary of “sensual convulsions”. Dadaism, despite its apparent impact, wasn't “but the reflection of a wide international movement” tending towards “the annihilation of any fundamental truth, as well as of any manifestation of natural or human character, to the obfuscation of any national sentiment”.
It's worth noting that the fact that the “national” and national press had – at least for the time being – archived the particular matter of the scioperissimo, and that the Popolo d'Italia especially (unlike other “national” voices) had significantly muted its original querulous complaints about the new Government, didn't result in a diminution of the relative attention reserved to “national” and “anti-bolshevik” initiatives. Indeed, general political considerations – which one may regard as almost positive towards the government – coexisted with the usual coverage of “national” themes, as well as with a persistent opposition to any concession to the various forms of organized Bolshevism (see for instance, the attacks on Mussolini's former associate, Filippo Naldi, now operating on behalf of the new Ministry). It is indeed possible – as rumored by the usual malign voices – that the new Government had exerted a certain degree of pressure on the various press outlets, after the suppression of censorship, to tone it down a bit, due to a persistent concern over frictions with France (as signified by the frequent telegrams between Nitti and Tittoni, as well as by Clemenceau's own direct grievances with the Italian delegation for the attitude of the Italian press) after the recent incidents in Fiume. If this was the case, Mussolini would not have liked to appear too soft-handed with the Government – which he was accused of – neither to press any lesser issue which didn't at least resemble a sensible line of criticism of the new Ministry.
In the meantime, a general anti-bolshevik sentiment – a sort of white noise – persisted within the city. In fact, the relative proliferation of anti-bolshevik organizations of various denominations was bound to cause a certain confusion. Hence, the “anti-bolshevik Union” - as the Popolo d'Italia called them, improperly, as it seems – had asked Mussolini's newspaper to publish a brief statement (July 28^th 1919 – page two – lower end, Milanese news) explaining that:
On the 26^th the Popolo d'Italia had reproduced – roughly at the same position, in page two – an official statement released by the “Council of the Milanese Nationalist Group”, praising the recent conduct of railway workers during the strike.
There was no need for clarification in so far as the main speaker for the night of Tuesday the 29^th – at the Dal Verme theater – that being Gabriele D'Annunzio, as announced once again on the 28^th by the Popolo d'Italia, on behalf of the “Fascio of the Patriotic Associations”.
News of D'Annunzio's intervention had remained at the center-top of the Milanese news since the event had been confirmed – July 26^th - “D'Annunzio in Milan”.
In the meantime, Mussolini's newspaper continued its coverage of the “eastern-front” and Adriatic matters, publishing an extensive summary (July 28^th – page three) of the public ceremony held by the municipality of Venice, to award honorary citizenship to His Royal Highness – Emanuele Filiberto of Savoia – the Duke of Aosta, former commander of the “unvanquished” III Army, recently dissolved (on the 22^nd of July) upon Nitti's insistence, due to active and persistent “national” agitation which surrounded the figure of the Duke, stemming from the press office of the Army Command, held in Trieste by Giovanni Giuriati.
And, from Trieste – through Rome – came most of the “latest” news on Yugoslav affairs published on Mussolini's newspaper. For instance, on the 28^th front page reportsinformed the reader of recent and concerning developments on the Italian eastern front, where – allegedly – an “attack against Italian troops on the armistice line” had occurred on the 27^th – but, in the afternoon of publication day, answering to an interrogation on the matter made by representative Casalini, the Undersecretary to the Interior, Giuseppe Grassi, observed that “since some newspapers have published a report of this sort, I can say that the fact is completely non-existent”, and anticipated a probable official refutation statement from the Government.
A less than flattering portrait of the unfortunate Ambassador had appeared, on the same day, in the front page (“Italy and America” - July 28^th 1919, in Popolo d'Italia), signed G.P. (Gaetano Polverelli) – his usual special correspondence “from Rome”.
> The attack of the Yugoslav troops against the Italian ones was supposed to coincide with the opening of an anti-Italian movement in Trieste.
The Italian Ambassador in Washinon had not been called back to Rome – despite neither the new Head of the Foreign Office, Tommaso Tittoni, nor, especially, Prime Minister F.S. Nitti, being too fond of his conduct of the Italian diplomatic affairs there. In fact, he would pass away in Washinon less than three months later, still belaboring for some accommodation with the US Foreign Office. Rumors about his possible replacement did circulate though (obviously); what's perhaps more significant is the relative attention provided by the Popolo d'Italia to his figure during these days, as well as the angle used to frame the possible or supposed Government initiative.
Talking about scarcity of coal and financial troubles, on July 28^th the leading column of the Popolo d'Italia - this time left to the care of Giovanni Capodivacca (Gian Capo) – offered a series of (not especially poignant) considerations on how to “gain credit” abroad (Accreditarsi all'estero), and how the action of the former neutralists and “Germanophiles” was working against Italy's national interests.
In explicit contrast to the “productionist” positions supported by Mussolini's Popolo d'Italia, on the 29^th the leading column of the Milanese newspaper was dedicated to a commentary on certain recent statements of a socialist union representative, summed up in the eloquent title:
> It would be nice to hear what fate comrade Violante envisions for the Italian workers after demolishing Italy. To our limited minds, it doesn't look like they'd had much to celebrate. But we are probably mistaken: when one has good health and Bolshevism, it's easy to have a great time even starving on top of the ruins of the Country... waiting for the Germans, or British or Americans to come have us rebuild it at their leisure, and at the crack of their whip.
> Without fear of exaggeration, we can safely state that we have been saying all the above in our newspaper since 1917. […] Now more than ever, after the victory, we confirm what we said before: that Italy and the US are two young nations, destined, despite certain past mistakes, to find a common ground. But our future rests most of all on our action, and we'll have to earn it with an effective initiative.
The next day, on July 29^th – still front page – the Popolo d'Italia reproduced the third installment of Douhet's analysis: the one concerning the “responsibilities of the defeatists in the rout of Caporetto”.
It is quite likely that most of this stuff - the most significant parts anyways - will find their way into some form of summary sooner or later. So that you don't have to read the whole thing. Also, if you have questions that interest you - and are somewhat tangentially related to the period I am covering - feel free to ask them. After all, that's why this place exist!