In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Like him or not he was definitely a master at manipulation of the media in 2016. When he was a joke candidate Trump was able to aggressively get free airtime that legitimized his candidacy.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
They don't erase MLK. They actually invoke his name quite a bit. They just white wash and very carefully select their quotes to try to create the "model citizen" for black people, which in effect has very little to do with MLK's messaging or activism.
>Fascists and other authoritarians seek to crush a people's capacity to imagine their freedom and agency, in order to maintain control over them. In distorting the history of the civil rights movement and turning it to their own purposes, the Republican fascists are attempting to erase one of the most powerful and instructive examples in recent world history of how an oppressed people can fight back and defeat their oppressors.
A testament to medias failure politically is Trump and his appalling misdeeds as president. The deaths of thousands should be laid at his feet for validating lies, stifling the CDC and their professionals ability to lead, politicizing a deadly virus and simple precautions, etc. Media response to this and more have been, to be kind, weak.
He’s surprised though that nobody from the media is showing up at his beck and call now though. I wish that all media would stick to straight reporting and that we bring back the FCC Fairness Doctrine.
Fox has made a ton of money by catering to the far right but CNN is equally guilty to catering to the left and profited until recently.