Ask the one recommended to you all the questions that come to mind, but bear in mind that he may not give you the definitive answers yiu hope for. He has an ongoing duty of confidentiality to his past clients too. In fact, take a minor bit of evasivemess as a good sign of a prudent lawyer.
NAL, but my brother is (in NJ). You need to explain the situation to a prospective attorney and what you expect a successful outcome to be.
I can't tell you how many times I've asked my brother about a potential situation and he said "that's a business decision. I can give you legal facts and talk about the law around your case, but in the end it's a business decision as to what you accept the outcome to be.".
Then let the lawyer speak. That will tell you quite a bit about their knowledge in this area and what can be expected. If you don't like what you're hearing move on to the next attorney. If you keep hearing the same thing, then choose the one you feel most comfortable with and listen to what they are telling you. Repeat back what you think they said to make sure you're not selective hearing what you want instead of the possible vs. probable outcome.
So start with the facts as you know them, you've been offered a buyout, but you don't know why only you were given an offer, and not other tenants. That if you agree to a buyout of your rent stabilized apartment you want to be made whole on the additional cost of a new apartment as well future rent increases over what would be had in your rent stabilized unit.
Having bought an apartment building years ago with the intention of converting the apartments to condos, we offered a few long term tenants buyouts, but not those living there under 5 years. Maybe that's part of your situation.
None of your questions would be determinative of your outcome. In fact it would arguably be misleading if a lawyer applied previous outcomes. Having said that, there’s nothing wrong with getting a general feel of their experience.
Dont be afraid to ask a good lawyer is not going to be mad because you ask normal questions about his bussines.
First you need a specialized lawyer if the case is penal choose a penal lawyer if it is about finanzes choose obe that works on that etc.
Generally the three top priorities of clients and their expectations revolve around: cost, communications, and timeline. So ask how much will this cost range, how long will this take to complete, and how often will you give me updates regardless of what’s happening.
We also started renovations in the empty apartments while continuing to re-rent some for one year with the stipulation that the unit would be converting to condo and they would be offered a below market price if they chose to remain. But if they didn't exercise their buy in they had 3 months from end of lease to find a new living arrangement.