Of course attorneys charge for their time talking to their clients. Anything that requires the lawyer’s brain, his communication, his experience, his education, his analysis, all of those things are required for explaining the nuances of a case or learning more from a client about the details of their case. Travel time is always compensated because the lawyer has to do it, he can’t work on other matters while he’s doing it, it’s absolutely required for him to do his job, which is to show up in court or at a meeting. The billing issues are slightly different, it is not atypical for a lawyer to not charge a client for a phone call that lasts a couple minutes to request a bill or ask a question about an item on the bill. But if a client has a 30 minute meeting with the lawyer to dispute each and every item, they can and should expect to be charged for that.
Sometimes you have to read the email, check the informations.. etc. To be sure to give correct answer. Just because it takes 5s to answer yes doesnt mean it only took lawyer 5s.
That would be like me charging my employer for driving to work. I would love to do it, but that's just an unreasonable request.
If I were a lawyer I wouldn't expect anyone to pay me $500 an hour to drive or communicate with the client. I would understand reduced rates for sure. Or a flat travel fee.
What if you were working in city A and you were send by your employer to city B which is 30 miles from city A. Would you want to be paid for the time?
You have to understand that the courthouse is not your lawyer's place of employment. If your employer sent you on an work errand during the day, would you expect to be paid while you were driving?
Probably half a lawyer‘s job is communicating— with the client, the court, opposing counsel, whatever. Something close to that anyway. Your traveling argument holds at least a little more water than believing a lawyer speaking with his client, asking questions, sharing his expertise is “unconscionable“. That is just frankly a bizarre argument. And, not all retainer agreements provide for a lawyer to get paid for travel. Insurance carriers notoriously sometimes do not pay lawyers they engage for local travel, for example. It seems like you’re saying “if it’s required for the case to proceed, then he shouldn’t get paid for it“. That doesn’t make any sense, why wouldn’t he get paid for doing the things that are required for the case to go forward? There are plenty of jobs to pay you for your travel to and from work; asking to be paid for the time you spent getting dressed at home may be unreasonable, though. Communicating with the client is the work, though: it’s not some step that happens before the work which allows you to do the work. You go to a lawyer for counsel, advice, and expertise. When he shares those things with you, that’s literally why you hired him. Of course he gets paid for it.
But as it stands, if I go a week or two without any updates, simply asking for an update would cost one or two six minute increment of $50 each.
I can understand just about every fee and expense but these two. I would be fine with reduced rates for driving or a flat fee. And I would be fine with certain communications being billed like long talks and such. But weekly updates and billing questions are pushing it in building a relationship.
How am I supposed to know what is happening without asking or waiting for them to tell me? And either way I'm charged for them telling me what's happening?
I actually talked with another law office today and they are looking over my stuff and going to get back to me, but they thought it was absurd to charge for communicating with the client. Maybe they are rare.
Seems like very little regulation on what and how lawyers can charge clients. The Texas disciplinary rules of professional conduct covers fees quite vaguely buy some of this seems to go against it, with 1.04 comment 8 being the primary evidence.
If I were a lawyer and my client had some simple questions or asked for an update, I wouldn't charge them in most instances.
I was actually told to communicate by email because it's cheaper, so I asked a few questions by email. Got a phone call with two lawyers from the firm on the line. And I fully expect to be billed for 6 minutes per lawyer.
I asked what happens if the lawyer arrives early and was told they charge by the hour while in the courthouse. So there is nothing to stop them from leaving early and getting there early.