My assumption would be that the folder and its contents were left on the computer as leverage for blackmail. If it was, there's a good chance that there's actual child porn in there.
You can safely view the properties of the folder if you just want to check to see if it contains anything. If it does, opening the folder is generally safe. I wouldn't open the files themselves, since a forensics expert may be able to tell that the files were unopened since they were created and may be able to line those up with logs from TeamViewer or whatever other screen sharing utility your mother used.
I'm not a lawyer, but I'd caution you to proceed carefully and maybe consult with one (upgrade "maybe" to "definitely" if you're thinking about going to the police, and talk to the lawyer first). Consider this scenario: the blackmailing party could leave an anonymous tip with the police to the presence of child porn on your mother's computer. Unless either of you are savvy enough to completely wipe that drive, there's a chance that the data can be recovered. This is true even if you format the drive. The only surefire way to wipe it completely is to write and rewrite over every sector multiple times or to physically destroy the drive. Supposing you follow through with that, how do you think it will look to the police that they were tipped off at the same time that you were covering your tracks? It makes you look very suspicious.
Again, I'm not a lawyer. I'm a software engineer with some past experience in IT. I'm not qualified to give you legal advice, so look for that from other posters with more experience.
Contact a criminal defense attorney and follow their advice. Assume all electronics will be seized and you won't see them for years if advised to contact police. So backup things to another drive you want to keep like family photos, local email, and NOT the child porn folder.
If you're intent on "erasing" the evidence, dismantle the drive, smash the internals and put the bits in a fire. Dispose of the ashes in separate garbage bags.
Edited to remove the bit about consulting a tech shop for recovering files. If the hard drive is replaced first, though, there shouldn't be any issue with consulting a tech for the BIOS flash, if the user or OP is uncomfortable doing that themselves.