What’s your legal protection for if/when you two split up, especially if the accounts are in his name?
I wouldn’t open a checking account with anyone I’m not married to, let alone two types of investing accounts!
I have money stored away in several private accounts, my own IRA. I have just given money to him to put into the stocks to keep it growing just in case. It makes more in his account with thousands than mine with hundreds and he gives me a percent of the dividends to put in my accounts unless I say otherwise. I have chosen to withdraw the money invested in the light of this newfound idiocy and plan to store it away with the rest of my emergency funds. Either way, bad decision or not, I came here to ask about if we were legally obligated to let his mother seize control of his inherited funds. I have made my decision that if she would like to talk to anyone about it that she best talk to an attorney because there is no way she is just going to come to my house and start acting like she owns our entire lives.
Your SO is fully responsible for all taxes on the account, but willing to share a portion of the dividends with you? This is, uh, messy...
No, it's 7 months later and she's just bringing it up now. There is no written will to speak of, my SO was simply made the beneficiary of all the accounts. There is no real paperwork to speak on. They have not seen an attorney, have not gone to court and refuses to discuss the matter until she comes up later today. I just want to make sure our backs are covered.
Oh. OK, so they are all accounts that gma put him down as the one to get when she passed? Like life insurance, bank accounts, retirement and stuff? No physical things like a house or car?
If so, tell mom to pound sand. If she feels she is entitled to something she can file it on probate court. But sounds like that is his money to do with a he pleases.
That's fine, but you can certainly open your own brokerage account and be empowered to invest on your own.
IANAL, but if your SO was the designated beneficiary on the accounts then he is the recipient of the funds. No vague letters, will, or probate will change that.
Courts are full of frivolous lawsuits, so if his mother wishes to take legal action nothing you two say or do will change that. Unless and until you receive any legal paperwork, she's just trying to get her hands on the money directly. Be polite, stand firm, and let her take the actions.