I suppose you could say that there are two separate questions here, one being whether common soldiers might be permitted to kill high nobility on the battlefield, and the other being whether or not they would be allowed to kill a member of the high nobility after the battle had ended, which is essentially the situation at the end of the movie. The need to answer both questions comes from a number of different sources describing Agincourt as the battle where chivalry died in the mud, suggesting that it was substantially different from all previous battles and that the killing of greater nobles was something unusual at the time.
While it's certainly true that the ideal was to take knights and other nobles for ransom, both out of a sense of a shared "club", if you will, and out of financial incentives, this hides a very pragmatic face of battle. If it was impractical to take someone prisoner, either because they were actively fighting you or because your army was outnumbered, then you simply killed them, whether they were a peasant or a king. There were also some special occasions, such as when fighting traitors or against a bitter enemy, when a king might declare that no prisoners were to be taken. Both the French and English declared this at Crecy, Poitiers and Agincourt and, although many high ranking prisoners were taken during the late stages of all three battles, on the whole the death toll among the nobility could be quite shocking.
As an example at the Battle of Crecy, king John of Bohemia, the duke of Lorraine and the counts and lords of Alencon, Flanders, Blois, Harcourt, Salm, Rosenberg and Saint-Venant were all killed, in addition to perhaps as many as two thousand lesser lords and knights. More interestingly, we know of at least four prisoners who were killed after Crecy during a dispute over who had captured them. The details aren't provided beyond that but the source, Colins de Beaumont, was quite possibly a witness to the battle and certainly seems to have helped identify the French dead afterwards.
At Agincourt specifically, three dukes, five counts and nearly 100 other great lords in addition to somewhere around 3600-4000 other knights and men-at-arms. All but two of the major French commanders were killed, along with almost 60% of France's bailiffs and seneschals (officials in charge of Royal justice and administration in a region). The male line of entire families were wiped out, and the region of Picardy was almost devoid of knights and men-at-arms for a generation. This was seen as a great tragedy, but not as something unusual except in scale. After all, large numbers of the great princes (dukes, counts, kings, etc) had been killed at Crecy and Poitiers, so this was nothing new.
While we can never be certain how many of these great lords were killed by common soldiers, there was no outrage over the fact that many were, in fact, killed by lower class men. It was a normal part of warfare for the period, and any lament was less for their deaths than for the lack of a chance for higher ranked men to have killed them and gained honour for themselves.
Coming back around to the Dauphin and The King, had the Dauphin been at Agincourt (he wasn't) and had he shown himself off to Henry after the French had been defeat, Henry wouldn't have ordered his men, whether common or noble, to kill him. The Dauphin was a far too useful political and financial catch to waste by slaughtering him. Even when Henry V ordered the killing of the prisoners (of whom 700-900 out of 1400-1600 were killed, with 700 survivors), he deliberately excepted the highest ranking men, such as Arthur de Richemont, the Duke of Brittany. Not only would killing them deny Henry a rich ransom (it was normal for the king to "buy" the highest ranked nobles from their captors), but by keeping them prisoner he could minimise the participation of their lands in future conflict. Without their lord to recruit troops, it would be harder to draw men from those counties and dukedoms.
Capturing the Dauphin, the heir to the throne, would have been even better. Not only would he have been worth a king's ransom (almost literally), but by having him prisoner Henry would be removing a moderating factor in the civil war between the Armagnacs and Burgundians, and gaining an even greater ability to play each side against the other as he strove to become king of France.
And the battle of Agincourt was very underwhelming, but nice since they had horses and armor and stuff instead of shitty CGI, but the archers, the archers! I was under the impression, among other from the Tides of History podcast, that the french basically couldn't charge but had to walk for a long stretch being decimated by the arrows of the english and that was the major factor of the battle. I am now going to go to the article about Agincourt on Wikipedia but I just love reading what you guys here have to say about things like this here...
England had definitely been using cannons in sieges before Harfleur, but they were definitely the stars of the siege. They fired day and night for at least four weeks and destroyed large parts of the town and walls. The French repaired the walls with cannon stones, rubble, and baskets of dirt and dung and laid down dung, dirt and straw thickly on the streets to prevent the cannon stones from bouncing or shattering. It was quite and impressive siege of both sides, with each constantly active during the four weeks the siege was most heavily under way.
Most of the French advanced on foot, over a distance that I'd estimate to be close to five hundred meters, constantly experiencing the arrows of the archers. With their feet sinking down anywhere between half and one and a half feet into the mud as they walked, their visors down, it probably took twelve or fifteen minutes for them to reach the English men at arms. By this time they would have been exhausted and, with the air inside their visors getting stale, the French were essentially incapable of combat by the time they reached the English men-at-arms.
The arrows from the English, meanwhile, had crushed the French men-at-arms together. Only those on the outside had room to fight, and the heaviest casualties from the archers would have been from the sides and rear of the French formation; it was over 300 meters from where the first archer in the English wings, which were far out in front of the men-at-arms, was situated, and by the time the French were reaching the English men-at-arms most of the archers would be able to shoot into their rear. At this point, the archers abandoned their bows and attacked the fringes of the French formation.
Most French probably weren't killed by the English, but by their fellow French as the edges of the formation crushed inwards and suffocated those in the center. Anyone who fell was trampled and drowned in the mud and, although we can't be sure, some of those in the center may have tried to climb over their fellows to get some air and formed small mounds as each man pushed down the man in front of them in the struggle for the top.