Theoretically it is an irrevocable gift, almost like a trust but not exactly like one. They shouldn't be able to use it, nor would thier new spouse have access. In theory, they have to transfer it to you between 18-25 depending the state.
If you were able to determine the funds are in a UTMA (versus a trust or other vehicle) that opens up several key points to discuss with the parent and/or a lawyer.
First (and likely the most important point), is that a UTMA is registered under the beneficiary's SSN which means in the eyes of the IRS -you- are responsible for any and all taxes on the account regardless of whether you are/were aware of this account existing or not. If the UTMA custodian (your parent) is withholding tax documents and other statements from you then that's a very real problem to address.
Second, since UTMAs fall under state rule (not federal), there are options available to compel the custodian (parent) to provide the beneficiary (you) an "accounting" of all assets and transactions in the account. You could also compel the custodian to terminate the UTMA and register the account solely in your name. Of course, those efforts will likely involve a lawyer and/or the courts, so you'll have to determine the best path forward there in light of family relationships.
\-- Here are KS statutes on UTMA, but look up your own state's statutes as the majority of states are similar --.
(c) The court, in a proceeding under this act or in any other proceeding, may require or permit the custodian or the custodian's legal representative to account.
(a) A minor who has attained the age of 14 years, the minor's guardian of the person or legal representative, an adult member of the minor's family, a transferor, or a transferor's legal representative may petition the court: (i) For an accounting by the custodian or the custodian's legal representative; or (ii) for a determination of responsibility, as between the custodial property and the custodian personally, for claims against the custodial property unless the responsibility has been adjudicated in an action under K.S.A. 38-1718 to which the minor or the minor's legal representative was a party.
(d) If a custodian is removed under subsection (f) of K.S.A. 38-1719, the court shall require an accounting and order delivery of the custodial property and records to the successor custodian and the execution of all instruments required for transfer of the custodial property.
(1) The minor's attainment of 21 years of age with respect to custodial property transferred under K.S.A. 38-1705 or 38-1706;.
38-1721. Termination of custodianship. The custodian shall transfer in an appropriate manner the custodial property to the minor or to the minor's estate upon the earlier of:
(2) the minor's attainment of the age of 18 years with respect to custodial property transferred under K.S.A. 38-1707 or 38-1708; or.