An hourly option isn't necessarily going to be the cheapest option. It really depends on the situation. A flat fee is going to include giving consultations and whatever document preparation. And often time a flat fee is cheaper package because if they go over that amount in hours spent, they just have to eat that cost because it was a flat fee.
Flat fees benefit the attorney in that they're earned immediately upon payment. And just from a practical standpoint, you never have to hunt down your client for money.
Yeah, I get that and appreciate the response. I'm going to guess though, that the flat fee tends to benefit the attorney, in most cases? Otherwise, why would it be a standard? I'm talking about someone who has been helping her brother, with no real help from anywhere else, for almost 20 years now. There are little things like a written agreement from her brother stating that he agrees with a modest monthly sum going to her, the caregiver. She just presented me with something to proofread that is dated from 2015 that I responded with, "You really should be consulting an attorney on the specifics of this", in the sense that I think that something like that would need to be notarized and, possibly, stated in a retroactive sense while her brother is still living? I have no real world experience with this and don't think it's worth 10 grand to get an answer to some basic questions. You have to under stand that posting in these groups pretty much just seems like an avenue to funnel the one with questions into the arms of a local attorney. I try not to be cynical, but "legal advice" is not really what I've found here. More like an attorney referral service where the answer is a big retainer when the likelihood of it being necessary seems small. Anyway, though I'd try. Thanks.
Thank you, and I understand that. It's just that in the internet age we can do a lot of our own basic research and it is nice to be able to talk to an expert in the applicable field of law for a set hourly fee to refine an individual approach. Anyone who specializes in Elder Care law and is willing to work on a pre-paid hourly basis of some sort, that doesn't involve giving away the farm on the first date, is welcome to contact me. I know it's a business and everyone needs to get paid beyond the industry standard gratis initial consult. Isn't there some flexibility here beyond catching a big payoff, in the form of a flat fee, due to someone else's desperation at the daunting task of caregiving and custody of another's estate? What if 10 grand is a lot in a situation where Daddy Warbucks is not the terminal case at hand, but those in need of counsel are able and willing to pay upfront as they go? Not trying to get salty here, but yes, a little annoyed by it all. Thanks for your interest and for any informative leads. Just trying to help a friend who is so overwhelmed with caring for another human being without any assistance from the tax system she has paid handsomely into that she might not be making wise decisions and assuming the best, when the system is clearly not weighted that way. Peace.
Consultations are standard practice but that's all they are. You sit with an attorney, you tell them what's going on and they advise you. If you want them to work on your case, then you negotiate a fee arrangement with them.
It's because we can't give you the kind of legal advice an attorney can. An attorney licensed in your state can know the facts of your case, be able to review documents, and able to communicate with you in real time to get all the information necessary to give you clear, specific advice.