In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
It’s import we be consistent in acknowledging the common violation while recognizing Trump committed a crime ON TOP of that violation that Biden came nowhere close to committing.
The ONLY reason the Biden documents are a story is because Trump decided to be a douche about all this... I am 100% positive of this, because we know that the National Archives tried, for over a year, to get Trump to return documents they were positive we had... and the only reason we know this is because he refused for so long they had to make it public.
This is simply another example of republicans doing the absolute worst thing possible, democrats doing nothing even remotely on scale of it, and yet the democrat is made to look like a guilty party.
I think there's a reasonable chance this story was intended to hurt Biden because he's insisting on seeking re-election and there are those within the Democratic establishment that don't want him to run again.
It’s not that the Biden documents thing is not a story. It’s just not nearly as big of a deal as what Trump did with the documents he had. And yet right wing propaganda will hammer the Biden story until every outlet and journalist is covering it. (And the right contends it’s the left that is “mainstream”).
Moreso his laptop will be breathing a sigh of relief. It can go back to training for ISIS, developing gain of function viruses, and smuggling fentanyl across the southern border.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
It's funny though how we assess "intent". For "our guy" he gets the benefit of the doubt, their guy meant it.
I mean, how can you so certain that Biden had no intent to not disclose he had these documents but Trump did? This is just an be example of tribal thinking. We have no way of knowing Biden's intent or if it was just an accident. It's been reported some of the classifed docs related to Ukraine, where his son was working? Relevant ? Who knows.
And then they found another batch in Dec, 5 weeks later. But it didn't end there. They then found in Jan another stash of undisclosed documents in his home. One could also read into that. There was no sensational FBI raid obviously.
I personally think this story is overblown. But do we even know the contents of these documents, in either case? I think that matters in order to try and ascertain intent.
Do we know what was in the documents and whether it was especially sensitive information? Applies for both cases. Difficult to ascertain how serious the story is without knowing that.
That doesn't really provide much insight into the original intent as to why the documents were illegally kept privately in the first place. What you are describing is how each party reacted upon being discovered. Two thieves can react differently upon being caught - their reactions shouldn't necessarily be interpreted as a indicator of guilt or innocence -.