In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The two decisions holding it up is one in the very conservative 8th circuit, and a very conservative Trump-appointed judge in the 5th circuit. As of right now, they aren't very strong suits. And SCOTUS is not going to want to deal with these kind of lawsuits in the future. But because the repayment pause is extended, SCOTUS may not feel a need to chime in immediately. They may let the lower courts bat it around before they take it up. They usually won't fast-track unless there is a time critical issue.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
There is a chance SCOTUS could dismiss these lawsuits, ultimately. Typically people cannot sue the government because of how they are spending your tax money. There is an issue of standing and an issue of trying to prove you've been personally harmed by it. It's a legislative branch issue.
The downside with that is that the GOP House may now try to find a way to withhold the money in appropriation bills. Not sure how likely that is to happen. That would be a political battle next year if that go that route.
I think you’re being a little disingenuous in description of the 8th circuit case. MOHELA will receive less fees as a result of this action, how is that not enough for standing?
Typically the courts don't get too involved in how the government gets and spends money. The only time the courts have is if it goes against some standing law (ie: Civil Rights Act) or something like it involves some fundamental unequal application that would violate the 14th amendment. Just because you disagree with how money is spent is not standing for a lawsuit.
And to be honest, I really don’t like the idea of hundreds of billions being spent unconstitutionally just because no one arguably has standing. What if the next republican president declared the top tax bracket to be 15%? Who would have standing to sue?
(2) what does it matter how blatantly unconstitutional it is, everyone in this thread is cheering about no standing so nothing to do. Who would sue the government for this?
The president can't do that because the Constitution clearly states that congress has taxing authority. The President can't just wave a hand and change the tax brackets.
(3) the standing here is not that they “disagree with how it is spent” it’s that MOHELA will have reduced revenues as a result of the (allegedly unconstitutional) act.
(1) the constitution also clearly says congress has spending authority. See related drama around Trump’s wall.