I can't anwser for cuisine in the Antiquity, but I can give you some pointer in medieval cuisine, specifically for french cuisine in the XIVe century (wich is already "a long time ago").
We have two main sources for that : Le Viandier de Taillevent (roughly translated : "Taillevent's Meatbook"), redacted by Guillaume Tirel, chief cook for the french kings Charles V et Charles VI, and Le Ménagier de Paris (roughly translated : "The Parisian Household guide"), attributed to a Parisian bourgeois in the XIV century. I think both have been translated in english (from the translation in french, because they were written in old French, and pretty much un-readable by the average french speaker).
Le Viandier is the recipe book fit for a king's table, so keep in mind it's food that only nobles would eat regularly. There is a lot of meat, but mostly pork, poultry and venison, because ox and cows were used primarly for farming and milking, and raising one was long and expensive. Fish is also quite present, but keep in mind that it was more frequent on the shore than inland. The recipe make heavy use of various spices : pepper, ginger, cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, even saffron. Vinegar is also commonly used, often with honey, so many dishes would have a bitter-sweet flavor. Meat are roasted or prepared in a stew.
Most of the recipe from Le Viandier are quite rich and sophisticated, but also includ simpler, lighter dishes for fasting days. Vegetable are often cooked in soups, or in the stews. Broth (from meat and from vegetable) is often used to dilute stews and sauces.
Le Ménagier is a household guide, so it gives both recipes and general advices on how to maintain and direct your household. The recipe are not as fancy as thoses in Le Viandier. There is a lot of recipe for poultry and egg, since it was the most common animal products. Eggs are boiled to various degrees, and accompanied with vegetable sauces (for instance, the "brouet vert d'oeuf et de fromage", poached eggs with a sauce made of parsley, spinach, broth, red wine, spices, served in a bowl with cheese, wich I heavily recommand, but I will come to that). There is also a lot of pies and dough, garnished with meat (often cheap cuts of meat). Soupes are also very common.
Fish is also presented in Le Ménagier, with a distinction between fresh-water and sea-water fishes, but the recipes are not very complex. Most of them consist of fried or boiled fish, with broth and/or wine. The notable exception are pies, that can be quite complex to make, and quite tasty (for instance, the Ménagier as a eel pie recipe that is delicious).
My main references on the subject is the french book Alimentations médiévales. ve-xvie siècles Paris, Ellipses; 2009), by Alban Gauthier, and a medieval cook book by Jeanne Bourin. I didn't read anything on the subject in english, so I can't recommand any specific books. But there is quite a lot on the subject, if no-one here can give you some pointer, I sure a bit of googling would give you a basic bibliography.
So here is a overview of the recipes. But it doesn't anwser your main inquiry... What did it all tasted like ? Well, there is one simple way to find out... Just try it. Both Le Viandier and Le Ménagier has been translated. However, the translation doesn't make for a very good cook book, because the quantities are often not clear. Some ingredients are obscur, and we are not sure what they are talking about.
But, many people have studied and tried to recreate those recipes. And there is many "Medieval Cook book" that lift heavily from both these sources. I own one of those, Jeanne Bourin's Cuisine Médiévale pour table d'aujourd'hui, wich, while not a hundred percent accurate, is the product of serious research on both the sources I mentionned. I'm sure there is some equivalent in english.
So overall, I would recommand you to find a cook book of médieval recipes, and try some recipes for yourself. Don't expecte something out of this world, but it's, if any thing, a fun thing to do, especially with friend and family.
So, with my cook book (and a passion for cooking and food, because, as I'm sure you have guessed by now, I'm French), I tried some of those recipes. The result is... often underwhelming. Spices tends to be too overpowering for my taste. Recipes from the Viandier are heavy on the stomach, but not unpleasant. The bitter-sweetness of some of the stews are quite satisfying : I tried a veal stew, with vinegar, spices, limes, a bit of honey and chopped liver mixed with the broth, and it was stellar. Where medieval cooking shine, is in its sauces, soupes and pies. All of them make satiating meal out of cheap ingrediens, and offer flavors that are not often used in modern days cooking (especially, since there was no potatoes, they use various tubercules that are pretty much not used anymore, like paneys or chervil).
One last thing, to end on little fun fact : Those cook books also contain "impossibles recipes", especially the Viandier : Swan roast, dolphin stew, salted whale... And some ridiculous serving ideas :
- a method to serve a full peacock, cooked, but not plucked, and to make it look like it's spitting fire by putting a metal rod covered in oakum in its beak.
- A method to garnish the inside of a pie with live birds that will fly out as soon as you cut the top of the pie open.
- A recipe - And I'm not joking - to dress a cooked chicken in a custom made armor, with a veal skewer as a spear, riding a roasted piglet.
The word I was looking for is not "tow", it's apparently "oakum". And I think "stem", or even "wire" would be more accurate than "rod". Basically, you wrap a straightened metal wire in oakum (a preparation of tarred fibre) that will burn slowly, a bit like a candle wick. You put it into the peacock beak, and light it up before you bring the thing to the table. You close the beak a bit to hide the base of the metal wire stuck in the peacock throat. And voila, you have a fire-breathing peacock to present to your guests.
So let's begin with a general overview of the roman cuisine. Her main feature is the huge numbers of ingredients in a recipe (around 10) so we got a cuisine with many flavour, very scented. The most used ingredients are Pepper, Garum (I explain what it is below), olive oil, honey and a variety of celery called "livèche". You can note the absence of salt, it's remplaced by the garum : a salted fish sauce. Combined with the wine, thick and perfumed at that time (Roman mixed it with water, Celt doesn't). So we have a roman cuisine almost emetic for our modern taste. For example : preserve sow teat were very popular or the Patella which was a dish based on fresh cheese mixed with brains, codfish, chicken liver and numerous spices. Now let's go deeper into some foods products.
I believe the English equivalent would be The Medieval Kitchen: Recipes from France and Italy by Redon, Sabban, and Serventi. Ironically also originally a French-language book, its translation is I believe the most academically sound variation on a medieval cookbook in English.
Sorry for the poor choice of word : English is a second language for me, and "oakum" is not really the kind of word you use on a daily basis.
I am quite familiar with oakum, having served on damage control teams in the US Navy. It has a very particular smell (I'd call it a stench, actually).
Would you say that the prevalence of spices in medieval cuisine is at all related to the limited options for food preservation in the period? I've seen before the argument that strongly spiced food could cover up any off flavors caused by ingredients starting to go off.
As for the use of spice, it's a valid hypothesis, but it's difficult to be sure : it's certainly not a conscious choice, a known technique, meaning the cook book I refered to don't mention it - not that i'm aware, anyway, I didn't read them front to back. But food preservation was indeed a problem, it could be a way to fix the taste of a meat that's starting to lose is flavor and/or go off.
It could also be linked to the main way of preserving the food, wich was salting. Since preserved meat was heavily salted, using spice and long cooking time, as in a stew, would allow to reduce the saltiness of the taste.
Another possible explanation is that the recipes try to make as much us as possible of a single animal, meaning that even the cheap cuts, the flavorless part of an animal (mainly, the fat) are used. Heavy use of spices can correct the absent of taste of such meat.
However, there is no technical knowledge of this fact at the time. There is tips in the Ménagier to preserve food and to recognize when a product is not good for consumption, but no tips on how to make it good again. Overall, medieval cooks seemed to be aware of the danger of eating rancid meat, or partly rotten vegetables, and advises against it in both the Ménagier and the Viandier. I don't think they would eat food that we would consider trully unsafe today. But meat tends to lose it's flavor pretty quick when not preserved properly, so heavy use of spices may be linked to the fact that meat were generaly less flavored back then than now, due to bad preservation.
However, I must indicate that most of medieval recipes, from the book I mentionned, often don't specify precise quantities - Modern "medieval" recipe book figured out the quantities by trials and errors. When I say "a lot of spices", I mean mostly a lot of differents spices in the same dishe. Not necessarly large quantities of it.
Considering a redditor made a very well writen answer for medieval cuisine, I'll try to make the same for antiquity. My answer will be centered around Roman cuisine in the proximity of the Gaul between the II th B.C. and the V th century A.D. (And while we're at it you guessed it I'm also french and most of my sources are in french but I believe you can find traduction of my principal primary sources).