The building doesn't allow for weekend elevator reservations. We are pretty high up so stairs are not an option. I'm sure the building will have some sort of fine for moving out on the weekend, but I'm more interested in if I have a right to tell my landlord we will move out Monday when the building allows for elevator reservations.
You may be able to move out without reserving an elevator. Depending on the building rules, you could attract a fine for doing so, which you'd need to settle. They can't stop you from leaving, though.
You don't have a legal right to hold over, but you can try negotiating with your landlord about it. It'll take longer than two days for them to evict you, as well, but it's conflict you don't need in your life, so I'd avoid that if possible.
It's generally up to you to figure out how you'll vacate on time, not up to your landlord, and the building's rules about elevator reservations are presumably available to you throughout your tenancy. If this is a new rule being sprung on your landlord at the last minute, and you're caught up in the mess, then get your landlord on side to push back on the condo association.
Unless the building rules or your lease say otherwise, no. You have the right to occupy your unit until your lease ends. You've known since the day you signed your lease when it will end and ostensibly a similar period of time for elevator usage rules. I would have recommended talking to you landlord about if s/he was willing to accommodate you holding over for two days, which many reasonable LL's would do in this case. But it's nearly 3pm on the Friday before a three day weekend and you may not be able to get in touch before they are unreachable. Considering it's a holiday, I wonder if elevator use is even allowed on Monday since most buildings I've been in with similar policies do not.
Regardless, should have thought this through when I re-signed, but I didn't realize the 31st and 1st would fall on the weekend.
But like /u/derspiny said, how you proceed is really about whether you're willing to risk whatever penalty they may try to impose on you. If you don't have any other options, maybe waiting until you can use the elevator is worth that risk. We can't speculate as to the penalty or whether it will be enforceable without building rules and your lease, but if your LL is fined by the building, s/he may try to recoup that from your security deposit.