Hi OP, I’m a consumer protection attorney for a government agency (not in California though), and I want to answer your second question by telling you that you can and should file a complaint with your state government. Like, seriously, the guy who handles a certain type of consumer complaint at my agency routinely brainstorms with me about how we can get people to send in more complaints. We know bad behavior is out there that we can act upon, but how do we find it?
And this shit is the exact kind of behavior we want to root out. While auto loans are not my specialty, my agency does conduct examinations and investigations of auto lenders, specifically to determine how well they’re complying with consumer protection laws. And I happen to know offhand that California recently restructured its state government to create a Department of Financial Protection and Innovation. You should go to and file a complaint.
It would help if you could make sure you’re reporting the correct business who you have the lease with. It may be the same name as your dealer (or a similar name), but often auto dealers have a business arrangement where they sell the vehicle and another company handles the financial part. This company’s name should be all over the lease, but if you can’t figure it out, don’t let that stop you. Just say that you bought your car at X dealer and the DFPI will be able to figure out who the correct entity is.
If the residual is 7500 higher that means the lease should go down by 7500–meaning that you should be paying 7500 less over the lease term. (Broadly speaking your lease payments are the total cost minus any rebates, down payments, etc, plus taxes unless you did those up front, minus the residual, spread out over the lease term.) So if they’re raising the residual 7500 they must also be raising the capitalized cost by 7500 as well, otherwise your payments should be going pretty significantly down…you need to look over all the numbers to see what’s going on.
Good luck And if you don’t mind doubling your workload (or if you’re sufficiently pissed off to keep going), I think the state Attorney General’s office would also love to hear about this. They take too.
You are right. The line items to go against capitalized cost were reduced, bringing the residual up accordingly. They kept the payments the same and just adjusted the residual.
The circumstances considered defaulting in the lease were outlined in the contract. Acknowledged something ambiguous could be interpreted as one of those reasons. Any insight into what could potentially give them the right to take the car back?
Thanks for the additional details. Let's say for some reason they were ineligible for the tax credit and didn't get it. How does that give them the right to rewrite the lease? There was nothing in the paperwork contingent on receiving the tax credit.
It does worry me that the section is "How the Amount Due at Lease Signing or Delivery will be Paid." Lease was already signed, delivery was already taken.
Aside from that, I think you have the negotiating power--they don't want the car back, what good is a used EV to them right now? Used EVs aren't eligible for the credit so they have shit resale.
If this were really a case of putting the wrong number on the wrong line that was, for example, preventing them from collecting the credit, you might have some obligation to assist in fixing it. Here, it sounds like they thought they could get the credit but found out they couldn't, which is entirely their problem.