Would recommend obtaining documents from a care provider to put together accommodations and keep that stuff handy for his next employer. It can be rough (pending severity) but it's likely for the best.
Source: live with a TBI, have needed accommodations for college/job. Don't ask for details cause...I forgot. 😞.
I'm sorry your boyfriend has to go through this but it is probably for the better he doesn't work their anymore. You don't want him working at a company with people that don't respect him.
Except the post specifically states that his co-workers and managers knew about his TBI. Proving they knew about it won't be as hard as you're making it out to be. They'll probably admit it, or have texts, emails, etc. where it's obvious they knew about it even if they try and say otherwise.
Probably != proof. Reread what I wrote. "Will be hard to prove". Not saying it's not possible, just unlikely. Being unlikely, outside of making complaints to organizations l, will likely be a wasted effort.
My experience with an employer hinged on the fact I had documented accommodations that were agreed amongst the managers/HR. So when manager stopped following those accommodations (which caused an drop in performance) they couldn't fire me.
If he doesn't need accommodations, then it's just best not to bring up possible disabilities cause people suck.
As someone who is in a protected class I can tell you from experience this is unfortunately very hard to prove.
If he doesn't have an official diagnosis set up an appointment with his doctor and find out what needs to be done to get one. I wouldn't disclose he has one with a company unless absolutely needed because unfortunately people are assholes and will use it against him even if it isn't obvious if it's more severe and a noticeable impairment then be upfront and the right company will take him in regardless and put him in the right position to succeed. But, should you ever need proof in the future you'll already have it on hand.
He needs to file a complaint with the EEOC. It is illegal to discriminate against someone for having a disability even if if the disability does not interfere with his job performance and even if he does not need any accommodation to do the job. He can start the process online at the EEOC website. He also needs to do it now. Depending on the state it has to be done within 120 to 300 days of the discriminatory behavior. Make sure he lists all of the discriminatory actions not just his termination, as that goes to a hostile work environment claim.