Probably not much, ASML is a public company and most shares are held by investment entity's from the US. They might have agreed on increased pricing which would result to more profit and more tax paid in the Netherlands. They paid 16% (1 billion) in 2021.
Also, much of the core technology IP for EUV scanners is controlled by the US. For example, the EUV lightsources are produced in San Diego, and were developed using grants from the US department of energy. Essentially it means that the US controls core IP and has veto power on export of EUV to any country.
Light source for both EUV and DUV are the most US if you will (look up the key patents for MOPA for example, it’s all Bell Labs, Polaroid, and US Universities). Similar for excimer lasers.
But if you dig into the optics past the first level (where Zeiss dominates for ASML) you’ll find all the same names. You can’t make scanners without US IP.
Yeah, we know that the IR driver lasers are made by Trumpf. These are then integrated into the the light source to generate EUV light. The light source, which is one of the most critical components of the scanner, is made by Cymer, a subsidiary of ASML, down in San Diego.
I mean, the lightsource is probably the most crucial and difficult component of the EUV tools, so i think my statement "much of the core technology IP for EUV scanners is controlled by the US" is pretty accurate. But also, the scanner mechatronics for both the wafer and reticle are also produced in the US (with what I believe is US IP). Also, many of the software for scanner optimization (SMO) is developed in the US by US subsidiaries. But yeah, I'm well aware that this only applies to EUV tools, not DUV.
Ya, a lot of U.S tech companies aren’t happy with these trade restrictions. I am just a worker and a retail investor, but these decisions have also f’d me as well.
It’s a story in the larger trend of things. EUV will be by far the hardest to replicate. A lot of other tools are very simple in theory. A lot of them use off the shelf parts. Also, vendors keep a lot of their tool IP secret, which can be split into two things: process and maintenance. Chinese will have their work cut out for them. They are definitely gonna have to enact some industrial policy to make up for the loss.
I do R&D in computational lithography, so I'm pretty immersed in the field, but by no means an expert on the resist or process side. But you still end up learning about the other aspects as well, just through talking to colleagues and stuff.
Not at all. Tons of US IP in EUV and DUV tools. Japan IP is needed too, particularly in the photoresists.
Oh ya, they log people's actions on the tool screens. The is a huge aftermarket for tools for some suppliers. You can buy every part of an AMAT tool on ebay practically. For others, you can buy a whole tool.
Good points about D-day though. Russia’s invasion has made me doubt China’s military capabilities. Xi probably has some moronic sycophant ghouls surrounding him.
This is a way to sound above the fray by pretending to be the enlightened centrists. Please f off with that if you can't make a counter argument. Trying to act smart and educated doesn't make it so.
I mean, we are in a generation of naval warfare we haven’t seen before. We’ll see if we can catch Chinese diesel electric submarines. Otherwise our carriers and hundreds, if not thousands of sailors will be at the bottom of the sea. BTW, there is a story from back in 2005 where a Chinese sub surfaced right in the middle of a carrier battle group.
Great… these sort of things hurt the workers of these companies. My bonus was hit hard last year, and that’s on top of inflation too. So let me get this straight, the market is supposed to reign Supreme, except when it doesn’t suit the interest of the national security apparatus. Hey, maybe if the state has a role, do something about the housing.
Yeah it's a good point. Current leading edge photoresists are still CAR (organic based), but the ones currently under development are metal oxide based to help increase the EUV absorption cross section (leading to lower dose and more tolerant to stochastic effects).