As a general rule, we don't remove META threads, and over all the thread was fairly productive! Got some good feedback from some users.
Apologies to the many users who posted in the thread in good faith, but we can't allow users to post like this here and break the sitewide rules.
We have removed the thread, banned the account, and reported it to the Admins who we hope will suspend the account shortly.
So hopefully they won't feel put on the spot, but I really, really, really want to give a massive shoutout to /u/imanauthority. In the META thread last month, we got into a very productive discussion which led to them being of invaluable assistance in entirely overhauling the system we use to send out flair alerts. This is something we do when we see a question that is interesting and in the wheelhouse of a flaired user, since we know that most people don't camp out on the new queue so they can be easy to miss, if watching the new queue isn't what you're supposed to be doing.
So anyways, as this was mostly done behind the scenes, while the mods all know about what they have done, I just wanted to make sure to also give them a shoutout for the community at large, as it really has been an excellent bit of assistance.
In any case /u/imanauthority pointed us towards Air Table, and helped set up a base that fits our needs pretty damn well. Not only for flair alerts, but even more importantly perhaps, also making it seamless to integrate in alerts to non-flaired users who we see contributing, and want to encourage in their contributions. After some tweaks - and a few follow-ups for further advice - we have the whole thing up and running, and it works wonders!
Yeah, this one wasn't _too_ hostile - obviously there was the usual trash / insults / flaming in the removed comments, but for the most part the comments were constructive.
Just, these threads are a _lot_ of work to actually address and explain - and unfortunately, that's often work spent addressing and explaining stuff which we've said a hundred times before.
Oh yeah absolutely - I didn't mean to minimise the work involved. I'm just thinking of the last time it happened where the tone was ... less constructive.
A recent question had me meditating on the influence of pop culture on occultism. This is a little more complicated than it might seem, but given that there are over 75 versions of Lovecraft's Necronomicon that have been produced, with at least some of them being considered legit works of occult literature by practitioners, it might be important to remember that historically the line between fiction and esoteric literature is very thin and nebulous. Works that were intended primarily as entertainment may contain ideas, concepts - even rituals and entities! - which other people believe are authentic descriptions of historical practices. When this happens today, we call it "fakelore," but the older it gets the harder it can be to discern whether something is part of an "authentic" tradition or an original creation which was then co-opted by later writers and practitioners.
Corporate accounts - spambots like these farm up a bunch of karma, and then get sold off to buyers who use them for promotion / other nefarious purposes from a 'real looking' account.