Medical malpractice is extremely fact-specific and generally beyond the scope of internet advice. You can consult a medical malpractice attorney in your area. The initial consultation should be free or very inexpensive, and they will be able to go over the facts of the matter and let you know whether they believe you have a case worth pursuing.
I think they have already started with 1 or 2 consultations from an attorney but only received written correspondence saying they arent willing to take on the case. There was really no other dialogue or expression as to why. Maybe if they understood the reasons or what is usually sought after in a case like this, then it would be easier to know how to proceed.
If this person was just inconvenienced or embarrassed, and did not experience any uncovered financial costs, or long term health effects, there isn't much room for a lawsuit.
There are a number of factors an attorney might consider, but the two biggest are simply whether there's enough evidence to prove malpractice occurred, and whether there are enough damages to make it worth pursuing.
If they don't think there was malpractice, or at least not enough evidence of malpractice that they think there is a good chance of winning, they won't take the case. If they work on contingency, they only get paid if they win, and even if they charge an hourly rate, scrupulous lawyers won't want to charge clients for cases they have no chance of winning.
Likewise, if the error was fixed with one relatively inexpensive procedure, the case may not be worth enough for the attorney to take on, given that malpractice suits are typically lenhy, requiring many hours of work, and often require paying expert witnesses to testify. If the eventual judgment would be small, it would be a waste of their and/or their client's time and money.
The patient in question should feel free to consult other attorneys. If they aren't able to find any attorneys willing to take their case, then it's likely their case isn't worth pursuing for one reason or another. They're also welcome to follow up and ask why the attorney they consulted declined to take their case, though they may or may not get an answer.
If several malpractice attorneys decided not to take the case, there is very little recourse they have other than to seek another opinion.
Malpractice is expensive to litigate, and for context, most viable cases involve significant damages including death and life long disability.