In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The Will Be Wild podcast did a good job of highlighting that analysts from all over the country were warning DHS and the FBI that folks were coming to DC to attempt an overthrow. This narrative that they weren't aware is hogwash. They knew and didn't prepare, the only question is were they in on it or just ordered to stand down by folks at the Cabinet level (i.e., Trump)?
“President Trump had authority and responsibility to direct deployment of the National Guard in the District of Columbia, but never gave any order to deploy the National Guard on January 6th or on any other day,” the committee wrote in the 845-page report it released Thursday evening. “Nor did he instruct any Federal law enforcement agency to assist.”.
He never wanted to be President. He wanted to lose, say all the deep state bs, then start Trump TV or some other grift.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
THIS. Those in charge at the Pentagon need to be subpoenaed and testify on who gave what orders that day. If they plead the Fifth Amendment on that they need to be removed from their positions on general principles.
There should have been enough firepower stationed at each Capitol entrance to make it clear: "you're not getting in and a lot of you can die today to prove that if you so choose".
They knew they were outgunned, that if they started shooting a) folks in the crowd had guns and would use the excuse to start shooting and b) they were so outnumbered their guns would be taken away and used on them. They did the right thing trying to deescalate, giving the crowd no excuse to become more violent and buying time for reinforcements to come turn the tide.
They showed incredible restraint in not firing on the insurrectionists as they were being overrun and in the stands at the Capitol entrances.
But reinforcements were held off by Trump and his carefully positioned lackeys at the Pentagon (personnel changes just before) and the few police in place were overwhelmed, right according to the insurrectionists' plan.