Under MA law pets are property, and not subject to "visitation" rights - there are very few states that entertain the concept of pet custody. You can try making a case in civil court that the dog is your property (sue him for the dog, basically), but even if you win, he'll probably owe you the cost of a replacement dog rather than the dog he's currently holding.
If you are genuinely concerned for the dog’s well being then you could always contact the rescue and inform them of the situation and see if they can assist in any way. It’s likely that their paperwork states that they have the right to remove an adopted dog from any home that is unsafe or neglectful.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I hope you get it figured out. Sorry you’re going through this, I can’t imagine the stress it’s causing. Maybe you can eventually convince him to let you have her. Best of luck to you.
Thank you. I really appreciate that. It angers me because I remember telling him many times that we should wait and not get a dog. I thought it was too early for us. No skin off his back, but now I feel like I’m mourning the loss of an animal that I truly loved—and not to a good, trustworthy person.💔.
I did and she (the breeder) was horrified, but also said that it’s very hard to prove what exactly constitutes that. She said she would most likely need to catch him in some pretty egregious circumstances over a period of time to have any standing. I think his treatment of the dog is more neglectful than abusive, but I don’t think it’s so overt/obvious that she’d have the grounds to take her back. Also, he’s an attorney, so he’d be the first one to be asking those questions and fighting her on it. Bottom line: He’s just a slime ball that does the bare minimum for her. But he’s abused me, which is legally documented, so there’s always a chance he could abuse someone/something else, which is what scares me most. Thank you for responding. I appreciate it.