To claim damages you have a legal obligation to mitigate those damages. By not getting vaccinated you proven that you do not take this seriously and do not want to mitigate any potential damage to yourself. This is how the law works.
You can call county health. That's it. Since you aren't vaccinated, if you get sick, you could have gotten it literally anywhere and from anyone very easily.
Not having the vaccine shouldn't negate the SM (and the boss of her) not giving a shit about someone being sick with Covid. This isn't some stomach problem, not the runs, anything (even though when you're sick you're sick) of that nature. I'm really just looking for advice and was hoping there could be something 'extra' done so I posted it in this sub instead of the normal one. Like I said, we're a gas station, we get a lot of customers and 2nd and 3rd shift are infected and are being "forced" to work. Obviously not every customer that comes through that door has the vaccine and them getting infected is not only the cause of "not having the vaccine" but also because they are scheduled due to the power tripping manager who doesn't even want to cover a shift herself.
But a boss not giving a shit about their workers (or customers) is not a legal issue unless there's something more to it.
It's a legal subreddit; when someone asks "can anything be done" we interpret that to mean any kind of legal action or legal claim. The most obvious legal action would be you claiming worker's comp if you get sick, asserting you were exposed at work, so you being vaccinated really does make a difference.
As I said, you can call county health and tell them that sick workers are being required to work or face losing their jobs (nobody can be "forced" to work). That's really the only advice there is to give you here.
(All of us here are well aware that Covid isn't some stomach problem. Because I take it seriously, I got vaccinated. As soon as I was able to do so.).
I mean don't get me wrong, I agree. I did let the head honcho know (though no response) but I'll be calling the health department asap too. It just pisses me off on how they don't listen to anything but money (as 99.98% of America does). The SM even told a coworker "we have all been exposed to covid several times." (as well as mentioning wearing masks if concerned, why there's a vaccine, and mandating it soon; being full transparent here) It could literally be against your religion or health wise and she'd expect you to do it and give you shit regardless. I knew there was only a sliver of a chance of something but I was just wishing too hard, I'm just venting further since it's convenient at this point.