It sounds like you have evidence that you gave him $200 to purchase Cardano and screenshots showing how much cryptocurrency he purchased for you. And it doesn't sound like he's disputed what you claim. Failing to dispute your claim and ignoring you doesn't tend to lend credibility to whatever version of facts he'd present if you sue him in small claims court. From a practical perspective, perhaps you can partner with another family member to encourage him to resolve this without going to court.
And you and your brother may not have considered this, but since the IRS treats cryptocurrency as an asset, not a currency, its appreciation in value is taxable. The state your brother lives in may consider it taxable as well. So when he transfers it to you, that will be a taxable event. If it's transferred less than 12 months after it was purchased it'll be taxed as ordinary income. If it's transferred after it's been held 12 months it'll be taxed as long-term taxable gains, which will almost certainly be a lower tax rate for your brother. So you should be considerate of this in your attempt to resolve this with him and in a lawsuit if you pursue that.
How much do you think taking him to small claims court would cost? I’m just wondering if it would be worth my time/loss of wages to potentially not even get anything out of it. And to address your other family member suggestion. I wish it was that easy, but he’s gone completely off the rails. He hasn’t spoken to my mom or dad since before the 2020 election. I was his only contact, and I’m afraid that once this is resolved (if it’s ever resolved) he will be on his own. He’s screwed us so many times in the past.
Oh, ok, so that’s not as bad as I expected. Frankly, I’d rather have the coins transferred over instead of the value on that day, but at this point, I’d take anything. Do you think they could rule that he transfer the coins to me instead of the value that day?
The cost to file varies by state. Generally the fee is in the $25 to $75 range and is recoverable if you win. With the pandemic, some courts are holding court using videoconferencing software like Zoom so it might be less disruptive if that's the case. You present your evidence and he presents his and if you win the court will likely issue a monetary judgment in your favor. That would likely mean a judgement for whatever the value of the cryptocurrency is in US dollars that day. On principle you may not want to do this, but you could always propose to him that if he gives you $X by a specific date instead of the full value of your Cardano, you won't sue him and you'll sign something considering the matter fully resolved.
I just have a feeling he won’t show up to anything, I’ll win by default, and still not get anything. He is unemployed, as far as I know so, I don’t know how I’d get any money, but thank you for the help. I’ll see what happens.
That depends on the state. In some states small claims court can award specific performance judgments (brother must give you the cardano) and in some states small claims court doesn't handle such cases. If he doesn't show up you'll win by default.