Brothels of the period were usually arranged like a boarding house - the facility had a number of bedrooms, a parlor and a kitchen/dining area (which were usually separate). There could be a privy outback, but depending on the place, there could be indoor plumbing (rare earlier, more common later) The parlor would be used for greeting guests and for general entertainment (drinks, music, conversation, etc.). Each woman's bedroom was also the place of sexual commerce - so yes, that part of the work was accomplished in the place where the woman slept (and that is where they would manage all aspects of their appearance except for major bathing).
Brothels often had an in-house cook and they provided meals much like a boarding house (as opposed to a lodging house, where renters handled their own meals). Cribs showed a spectrum of possibilities: some were large enough to include a kitchen; others had no kitchen facility, requiring the woman to go out for all substantial meals.
Cribs were small single-person dwellings used by individual businesswomen. They were not afford the protection of the brothel, but they did not need to pay any "administrative fee" to the madame and the "house.".
Laundry would be handled in different ways. I have never seen a brothel described in census records with an in-house laundry worker, but there was often a woman who handled aspects of the running of the establishment, so it is not impossible to imagine such a person doing laundry. Otherwise, most communities had laundries available in neighborhoods, so it would be easy enough to purchase those services.
There were also street walkers - the lowest rung on the safety/economic ladder. They would conduct their business wherever they could and "flopped" where they could. Life expectancy could be short since they were often only one step above homeless.
Crib-dwelling prostitutes were exposed to many dangers. The famous case of Julia Bulette of Virginia City, Nevada involved a crib-dwelling prostitute who was murdered in 1867. Her establishment had two rooms: a front parlor and the back bedroom. She rented from a neighboring prostitute who had a larger crib that included a kitchen, and as part of the rent, the property owner furnished Bulette with some meals. Coincidentally, a large brothel was across the street from where they lived.
My wife, Susan James, wrote the definitive work (in my opinion!) on Julia Bulette, an article that was reprinted in (1998). She also introduced an important Bulette-related document (her probate inventory), which appears in another volume that I co-edited: (2004).
To the salty user reporting all the comments in here complaining how this comment violates an apparent rule that "Answers Must Be Sourced", could you please get in touch with us? It would be very useful to us as we're kind of confused what rule you are talking about. It is kind of embarrassing that an anonymous user knows the rule book better than everyone on the mod team, who has been polled and collectively know not of what rule you refer to.
Ok, but seriously, this is a rule that is commonly misunderstood, so to offer some clarification. As per the actual rules of the subreddit, sources are only expected upon request. There is a reason that the default sources related report is 'Sources requested: No response in reasonable time'. If no one requested them and the answer is otherwise fine, we're going to ignore your report. If you requested them 10 minutes ago, we're going to ignore your report ("Reasonable time", for the record, is a variable qualifier that we judge based on time of day and whether the user has been active. It can range from a few hours, to 24 depending on context).
I'm 66 but computers were my living so now I'm using them for fun instead of work now, it's an incredibly immersive game. The other thing I've always wanted to ask you is if you had knowledge about Mississippi river boats.
Pro tip to add: If you get pushback on asking for sources... maybe consider how you are doing it? Yeah, we don't like people downvoting those requests, but the most control is with the person posting it and the tone they choose. A curt "sources?" comes off very differently than an engaged "That is very interesting, what works are you drawing on here?".
I always bow in the general direction of Anne Butler (1938-2014). Her (1987) is brilliant, as was she (and she was damn funny as well). Her book is a classic - if not THE classic.
edit: for Denver history, I recommend anything you can find by Tom Noel (and I highly recommend his Denver saloon tour). Tom is brilliant and he knows all things Denver - particularly if it involves vice.
A subject as provocative as prostitution in the "Wild West" attracts more treatments than there were prostitutes, but this is at least a start - and it is where I start - and where I ended.
For my specific work on prostitution, I began with the important work by Marion Goldman (1945 - ); her (1981) is an important look at western prostitution from a historical and sociological perspective. I commend her insights and her work even as I provide numerous corrections about her specifics. My critique of her work, together with a demographic analysis of prostitutes in at least one Western city, appears in a book I co-edited: (2012).
Just wanted to say how much I appreciate your everyday insights into "the old west". I'm an Australia but have always been really interested in the US's history as a unique phenomenon.
I've recently started playing a game called Red Dead Redemption Two where you basically are a member of a gang in the late 1800s. It seems to me that historically it's incredibly well researched.
It's not my area of research, so I can't help you. That said, I strongly recommend that you post your question on its own. You may receive some good answers.
I'm going to check out your article on Chinese laundries and the sources you cited below. Thanks for posting those.
The notes about Chinese women as seconadry wives is very interesting. I came upon a ghost story about a Chinese woman living in a house with a man and his wife who hung herself because of accusations the townsfolk made about her. That makes a lot more sense now. Context is awesome.
edited: diaries also used the word "shit" but less as an expletive and more for its intended meaning. The same could be said for "fuck".
Laundry work was a really horrible way to make a living. Most abandoned the occupation because of its low pay and backbreaking labor. The exceptions were those who worked in large, commercial, steam laundries (in larger cities), young Chinese men working together for other ethnic groups, older Chinese men working for the Chinese community, and single Irish Americans with children (left alone because of death, divorce, or abandonment). The Irish laundresses could survive because the Irish American community was willing to pay higher prices for the work, preferring "their own" rather than patronizing the Chinese establishments.
I've read Mark Twain books about it but I was wondering where I would find what it would have been like traveling down the river, costs, accommodation, food, card sharks and gambling, who had legal resposablity, ect.
I co-authored an analysis of Chinese laundries in in article: Ronald M. James, Richard D. Adkins and Rachel J. Hartigan, “Competition and Coexistence in the Wash House: A View of the Comstock from the Bottom of the Laundry Pile,” Western Historical Quarterly 25:2 (Summer 1994).
I read that some of the indentured Chinese women ended up as domestic servants, and many ended up in laundry houses, which is why I'm curious about laundry. I can't remember where I read that the more upscale brothels and parlor houses kept indentured servants, so I can't really say they did, but I'm interested in the relevant duties they would have.
If you can recommend any other reading on either brothels or intendured domestic servants, please point me in its direction. Finding reputable sources on this topic has been a challenge. I wanted to chuck one of the books out the window.