The school knows of the incident. Anticipation of litigation is a trigger for records retention. But to be safe the attorney should remind them quickly.
Here, the school district could potentially be your adversary in future civil litigation. Do not agree to anything before finding out your options from your own lawyer. You don’t want to waive anything unknowingly.
In general, Title 9 imposes an obligation on schools to prevent sex-based discrimination. The school may have an obligation to pursue certain disciplinary actions against the child. This would generally be separate from criminal or civil actions against the child (or her parents).
Title 9 also allows a private right of action against the school. It's unlikely, but it's possible that you could waive your Title 9 claims against the school if you let them handle everything.
Many schools are notoriously confused (or worse) when it comes to handling sexual assault and Title IX. Some school administrators and board members honestly and mistakenly believe Title IX gives them a free pass when it comes to sexual assault occurring on their grounds. I could fill an entire sub on this issue but the point is that OP absolutely, positively, unconditionally, 100% needs to hire their own lawyer and follow their guidance.
EDIT: And as /u/bug-hunter pointed out, don't tell the school that you have a lawyer until your lawyer says to. In fact your lawyer will almost certainly tell you to stop talking to the school entirely.
/u/DadrageMI, the school will give you advice on how to best serve their interests. It's in YOUR best interest is to have an independent third party who is well-versed in the law -- a lawyer -- look at your situation and give you their impartial, professional guidance. It's important that you do this immediately, as in stop reading Reddit and do this right now, because each passing second is another opportunity for evidence (such as bus video) to be erased, either accidentally or "accidentally".
There are important reasons to inform your opponent that you have legal counsel right away, but it's fine to listen to the lawyer's advice on this.