I'm sorry that this situation is so hard on you. That really sucks and I'm glad that you were able to clear your name with your job, especially so quickly.
I'm sorry you're right that was probably unclear I've updated the body of my post. I just want to know if I have any ground to stand on or how I would pursue legal action.
You COULD perhaps report the broker to the police for fraud. But, this could end up causing problems for your parents with their lender.
I wasn't sure if it should be the broker or the company itself. The mortgage did not even end up being refinanced in the end, I assume because the company/broker got spooked when my place of employment realized what had happened with the documentation. I have already filed a police report against the broker for fraud. But I think someone deserves to pay for the emotional trauma this has resulted in for me.
No I understand that, it would not be my place of employment that I am considering pursuing legal action against. It would be the broker and his company.
Ah, I see. Then in the ordinary course of things you'd sue both, and let the court sort out liability.
But please see a lawyer as one legal issue you'd face is whether or not the brokerage owed you any duty of care (one of the pre-reqs for a negligence case) or intended to cause you distress (a pre-req for a different tort).
You could also make a complaint against the broker with whoever regulates mortgage brokers in your province.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
That is incredibly helpful thank you! I didn't know I could sue both or that courts would even do that. What type of lawyer do you think I should consult? I'm also in the process of filing a complaint with the governing board for mortgage brokers.
Thank you please don't worry I have already arranged to restart my medication and am currently seeking counselling, covid just makes both much harder to do right away.