California, Colorado, and Virginia do have privacy laws. However, their laws do not prevent companies from acquiring your personal information through the acquisition of another corporation. Those laws also do not prevent them from sending your information to third parties unless they are SELLING it to third parties and you have specifically asked them not to.
In any case, you shared your information with Uber (or Postmates, which then was acquired by Uber) and they are currently free to do with it as they please in the state of Washinon.
I am not 100% sure I am understanding your question correctly, though, as it's a bit unclear what exactly you are asking.
I guess what I'm asking is is there anything I can do about a company lying about what they are doing with my information. As in they say something has been done, yet I can prove it wasn't even attempted. Does that matter in any way. I more concerned with the lying aspect. They said they use Checkr, and said a request has been made, and they are waiting in a reply. But no request was sent. And when I ask when it was sent I get out on hold then hung up on.
I know I can ask for my info to be deleted but with confirmations of lies how can I trust anything that's said. I am worried they are just selling my info, but I have nothing to go off of in that regard. I hope I was able to paint a clearer pic of what I'm after. Idk.
Well that's what I was trying to clear up with my edit. They were sending me emails and text messages over and over asking for and saying the next step is my consent, to do the background check for Uber. I eventually said ok long after, years even, I said ok for postmates.
They said they are performing a background check with a particular service and appear not to have done so. There's nothing illegal about that.
Even if they ARE selling your information without your consent, which you have no proof for, there's nothing illegal about that either given that the state of Washinon has no privacy law.
Title: I now have screenshots and phone recordings proving Uber is lying about what they are doing with my personal information.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Uber bought Postmates, they now have access to that data. You most likely agreed to the data collection when you signed up for Postmates. How exactly are they spamming you ? Are you trying to get a job with them since you mentioned going through a background check ?