I'd say yes, file a report. This is not a legal advice but more of a moral one. This might not be the first time this man steals packages and he might be known to the police so reporting him might help them catch him. Besides - less thieves, less stolen packages no matter their value and all it takes is a short trip to the police station. Worst case they don't find him.
Also, OP stated that there were several stolen, not just theirs. We don't know the value of the other packages stolen.
And your complex may start taking more security measures if police reports for theft start coming in. Those show up in searches when you're looking at crime statistics in an area and may affect their business if they don't do something to protect their tenants.
Police will not investigate for a $15 package, huge corporations literally pay off millions in lawsuits world wide every week, $15 is nothing. They can put OP on a list where they can no longer receive packages unless it is signed off by them.
Yours may have only been $15 but the other 1 or two may not have been. Your surveillance picture may help in a series of thefts as well.
Yeah if it was 20 cars stolen from a parking lot then yes they would investigate. But they won't get you CSI for a $500 package. Just like they won't investigate if your 10k car was stolen and dropped off in a ditch.
Same for when my parents' car was broken into in a city in Ohio. The cops came, processed the car and the device used to break in, took statements. All that was stolen was some CDs and a GPS. They actually caught the guy off the fingerprints from the screwdriver.
I understand that my situations are anecdotal and most likely not typical. But it does happen, even in large cities. I'm guessing my car was part of a ring of car crimes they were trying to get evidence for.
Honestly never heard of that before, what state do you live in if you dont mind me asking? I am from California, and they would never send CSI to get finger prints from a stolen vehicle unless it was an assault or an armed robbery, etc. Maybe because we have so many cases and incidents police just doesn't have time for that. Couple weeks ago, they even said that the requirements to become a CHP or Police Officer in the state of California changed so it is easier now then it ever was.