In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
IMO, critical thinking evolves more than discounting the direct quotes taken from the presidents of the unions who voted not to ratify the agreement based on the journalist's political leaning.
If the sick leave bit had passed they would be praising the government for helping them get the last thing they wanted. Since not enough Republicans signed off on it they are left unhappy. That is how these negotiations tend to go, it comes down to one last concession.
You have a better deal than the vast majority of people in this country, I only get 12 days of pto and 12 days of sick.
Being on call is an essential part of the job, that’s why they make so much money. They know that when they take the job.
They cannot be fired for taking sick leave. They are just required to get a doctors note if it is more than 3 days.
In a reasonable world they would have voted again on a 3 day sick leave policy and split the difference.
If the workers want to direct their anger at someone it should be the GOP. A few more votes and they would have gotten the contract they were asking for.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
They can call out sick, they just don’t have paid days for it. They get several weeks of paid pto a year though, they can just use that. This isn’t the big deal a lot of people think it is.
I didn't say it wasn't the thing they wanted most, I don't actually know how badly they wanted that part. I'm saying it is was the final step in the negotiations. If it had passed the railways would be mad if it wasn't passed the workers would be mad. Unfortunately the GOP decided to not let it pass.
>Some members of the House have called the addition of sick pay a gimmick or poison pill. Cardwell noted that 80% of American workers have sick leave, including Congress. “They (Congress) have it, their staffers have it. Many government employees have it. Most corporations provide some form of sick leave for their employees. So I find it completely irritating that they would call it a gimmick,” he said.
You’re lucky, I only get 12 days of pto and 12 days of sick a year, I’m in the same boat if I get sick and use up my 24 days.