In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I think maybe because right wing libertarians dominate the media around libertarians people forget that left wing libertarians are a thing too.
“Afraid of an economic future free from the pernicious meddling of central bankers,” he said. “I’m a central banker.”.
“Not yet. But mark my words: we’re going to figure out who did this and we’re going to take them down … provided someone pays us a fair market rate to do so.”.
I was shooting heroin and reading “The Fountainhead” in the front seat of my privately owned police cruiser when a call came in. I put a quarter in the radio to activate it. It was the chief.
He laughed. “That’s why you’re the best I got, Lisowski. Now you get out there and find those bitcoins.”.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I put a quarter in the siren. Ten minutes later, I was on the scene. It was a normal office building, strangled on all sides by public sidewalks. I hopped over them and went inside.
The heroin needle practically fell out of my arm. “What kind of monster would do something like that? Bitcoins are the ultimate currency: virtual, anonymous, stateless. They represent true economic freedom, not subject to arbitrary manipulation by any government. Do we have any leads?”.
“Come on,” I said. “Don’t you all understand that the protection of private property is the foundation of all personal liberty?”.
The main difference usually is that most (left) anarchists wish to abolish private property as to prevent as much unjust hierarchies from coming into existence as possible, while libertarians/ancaps think that private ownership must be preserved in a lawless society creating needless unjust hierarchies for power’s sake.
I’m a left wing libertarian; I don’t care much about private ownership, happy to pay taxes and industry regulation is good. I do care about my personal liberties and those of citizens in general. I think maybe left wing libertarians tend to care about personal liberties whereas right wing libertarians extend that to corporations. Taxes are great because they are a method of redistributing wealth to level the playing field as it were for those who don’t have means from those who have more than enough. I don’t want to preserve unjust hierarchies, actually the opposite!
Can confirm; I am a libertarian and also a moron (although I do support industry regulation; don’t care about corporate liberties, only personal liberties. Still a moron though).
Nothing. These people were stonewalling me. It almost seemed like they didn’t care that a fortune in computer money invented to buy drugs was missing.
“Home Depot™ Presents the Police®” I said, flashing my badge and my gun and a small picture of Ron Paul. “Nobody move unless you want to” They didn’t.
I figured I could wait them out. I lit several cigarettes indoors. A pregnant lady coughed, and I told her that secondhand smoke is a myth. Just then, a man in glasses made a break for it.
“Stop right there!” I yelled as I ran. He was faster than me because I always try to avoid stepping on public sidewalks. Our country needs a private-sidewalk voucher system, but, thanks to the incestuous interplay between our corrupt federal government and the public-sidewalk lobby, it will never happen.