The mere fact that you're asking random internet people none of whom are lawyers for advice on how to handle the legal aspects of what appear to be serious injuries to your child is pretty good evidence that you are not adequately equipped to deal with the legal side of things and you need to get a lawyer for your child.
To be even more frank with you, if you lived in California an insurance company wouldn't even talk to you because there is a 0% chance that a DIY settlement on this would be enforceable when your child turned 18. The insurance company, which is adverse to you, would tell you to get an attorney for your child. I don't know if Illinois has the same level of court oversight for settlement agreements executed on behalf of a child, but the mere fact that your state might let you do something dumb on behalf of your child isn't a reason to do it.
Were you asked about the legal action by someone at the park district? Them asking if you are considering legal action is routine, as it is fairly routine for those who are injured or damaged to use legal avenues remedy the situation. They just want to put appropriate parties on notice. You aren’t obligated to tell them either way.
You need to find a lawyer sooner rather than later. Some states have weird laws around public ways/public places (like you have to file the claim within 30 days) and if you don’t put in a claim in time, it’ll blow the whole case before it even starts.
If you don’t feel confident that the district and insurance will cover your damages it’s worth consulting with an attorney.
If it were me in your shoes I’d at the very least consult a personal injury attorney. It’s an evolving situation, and you don’t really know yet what your total expenses will be. If the flung piece of mulch had instead landed an inch or two lower, lacerated a cheek, you’d likely just have the ER visit and follow up expenses to cover. You get the check from their insurance in that case and move on.
NAL. Work as a landscaping supervisor for a public entity. I have personally damaged private property (have never injured anybody) during and as of a result of my work duties. I have seen and been party to the response of personal injuries resulting from landscaping sort of stuff (mostly slips and fall on ice,etc.) They almost certainly have insurance. You should definitely pursue reimbursement for your out of pocket expenses.