In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Realistically, lobbyists often write the documents, work together to collate them and then inform the congress person how they want them to vote on it. Then an army of staffers read the documents and summarize what’s in it for their congress person, if they care at all. Some Representatives and Senators still have their teams add content of their own design and try to work with each other to get it supported by enough people to be included in the final bill. But as I said, these days, corporations do a lot of the heavy lifting and those in congress mostly just rubber stamp what their big donors tell them to rubber stamp.
As for when it’s covered by the news: Depending on the outlet they might get pre-approved summaries handed to them by affiliates of the major corporations that wrote much of the content, to highlight the good and gloss over the bad. But smaller outlets likely have reporters dig through it, as wouldn’t take a team of 5-10 people that much time to read all of the pages and get a good idea of what’s going on. And then of course you have bodies like the ACLU which will pour over it with a fine tooth comb and actually try to call out abuses of power or misallocation of money.
Source: Anecdotal but I have many old acquaintances who either work on the hill or have worked on the hill and that’s how they described the situation. The ones most frustrated were the ones who said their boss didn’t give a shit or were more worried about fundraising than whatever work should be going on. It really shattered their perceptions of how government worked….