However, I'm guessing what you really want to see is an actual television ad. The most prominent one I can think of that intended to showcase black-and-white-vs-color came in 1963.
This was first shown during Disney World of Color, co-sponsored by none other than RCA. Not only was this done during a program where color being embedded in the very idea made it more likely consumers would seek a color television out to watch it, but just in case a consumer did see the ad in black and white, the main character's enthusiasm tries to carry the message; just like modern VR ads, the screen can't necessarily show what's really going on, but they can show the reaction of others to what's going on. ("Wow" gets said a lot -- just like trying to describe color television in black-and-white, you'll get the best idea if you just watch the ad.).
The parallels between this and selling HD TVs back in the early 2000s are really striking to me. At the time I was working tech support for Dish Network and there was a full-court-press to get people to upgrade to HD. Dish figured that HD made people "stickier" customers so they pushed it at every level of the company.
Most of the TV advertising just focused on how lifelike it was and really sold you on how much better your life would be with HD television rather than selling the HD picture or programming itself (which makes sense because there wasn't much of it).
The way they really sold it was print advertising and in-person demonstrations. Getting HD sets into places like Walmart and Best Buy gave people a chance to see them in action (there's a reason they were almost always showing a demo-loop which included an NFL game) and Dish and DirecTV were right there in store with the sets to sell you programming.
1954 TV (the 1951 RCA demo was something different -- in addition to being shown in theaters it did get broadcast on WNBT but nobody was able to see it because the transmission was incompatible with black-and-white).
It was also commonplace for television dealers to keep one or more sets turned on in a display window, to catch the eye of people walking or even driving by. Sometimes you'll see this in old film footage of people reacting to the JFK assassination, or watching one of the space shots launch, etc.
I imagine this sort of sales pitch happens with any of these sorts of "paradigm shifts", stereo radio probably had a similar campaign, as did 3D movies, and now VR.
I don't know 3D movies off hand, but stereo sound indeed had a similar need for demonstrations (starting late 1950s, and RCA along with other record labels were involved). There arose the "stereo sound demo". .
Agreed! If you ever get a chance to see an early color TV I recommend it. They're luminous in a way that, weirdly enough, can't be captured on a modern computer screen.
Oddly enough, old B&W TVs do have an advantage in seeing actual B&W content -- they don't need a "shadow mask" so have a pixel fill of 100%, which even very advanced modern TVs technically don't have.
Color sales overtook B&W in the US starting in 1969, and complete saturation ("virtually all") households had one after the 1980s, but the last B&W TVs kept being sold through the 1980s and a 1992 AP article mentioned that about half of households still had a B&W.