Suicidality is incredibly complicated. It often isn't as simple as a one-factor problem. You are absolutely not qualified to handle this.
Once again if you'd read the text you'd see that's not very helpful. She's not being abused physically but she's clearly not doing well mentally because of this. Also shed have a place to live she'd be living with us. Again we aren't moving now we moved a while ago but came back and I she broke down last night and I feel wrong leaving her. She'd be put with her family who would probably be the same if not worse. Also she's 16 I'm 15 idk if you mixed up ages or if not but she's a young adult. One who's not even able to chose to wear stuff that makes her comfortable. Who lives a life that makes her feel likes hit because she's nothing like she wants to be and she's not even given the option to be. Her mom basically said until she gets surgery she will not acknowledging that my gf is trans. Her dad hasn't said anything about it yet but again she's been avoiding him to keep away from getting yelled at. And if she lost me through cps (I know people who have been taken through it each one disappeared 100% from my life despite me having many ways to contact them) I can't lose her and I know she can't lose me. I just don't know what to do I feel so useless. Plus the cps in our areas really dumb they had conclusive evidence on one of my friends mistreatment then they basically blamed her and left her there. (Not a one time thing either school was constantly making reports) I honestly feel that calling cps would do more harm then good. I just am so angry that I can't do anything. I feels o beyond powerless.
Also isnt kidnapping about the taking an unwilling child or tricking a child to go with you? She knows fully well where she's going and what she's getting into. But I guess I'm not a lawyer so..there's really nothing I can do?
God damn it I'm screwed there's nothing I can do? She's 16 has the right to consent but can't leave a house of people that make her this upset I don't understand these stupid laws. I feel awful I can't do anything.