The US did not warn Japan in any meaningful (or actionable) way that they would use an atomic bomb, nor did they make any effort to warn the populations of the target cities about their impending destruction.
This was deliberate — it was felt that a warning would lessen the psychological effect of the bombing, and would endanger the missions themselves (i.e., would make it possible for the Japanese to try and shoot down the planes carrying the bombs).
The US did engage in various forms of psychological warfare that were meant to look like "warnings" for conventional bombings, but they were also not actionable (they were meant to reduce morale and perhaps encourage abandonment of jobs, but were not really designed to save lives).
, including a debunking of the (stubbornly persistent Internet) myth that the US did warn Japan about Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
On July 26, 1945; US President Harry S Truman, UK Prime Minister Winston Churchill, and President of China Chiang Kai Shek issued what has been known as the , an ultimatum and warning to the Japanese government.
The declaration called for the armed forces of Japan to lay down all arms and the government of Japan to dismantle its war industry and open the path for a peaceful post war integration with the rest of the world. It made no mention of disposal of the Emperor.
So back to the original question; yes; the Allied governments made it clear that no Japanese town or city was safe from destruction, including Hiroshima and Nagasaki. However; no specific mention of atomic bombs was made to the Japanese government prior to bombing Hiroshima.
The declaration itself did not specifically mention any atomic bombs, it warned Japan would face "the full application of military power, backed by our resolve, will mean the inevitable and complete destruction of the Japanese armed forces and just as inevitably the utter devastation of the Japanese homeland.".
The Potsdam Declaration is not by any means an actionable warning. The promise that Japan could "expect a rain of ruin from the air, the like of which has never been seen on this earth" is one that only makes sense _after the event_, and in any event gives no possibility of civilian action or evacuation. _Prior to the event_ it would be understood as referencing conventional bombing, the likes of which had already been taking place.
It is important to remember that by July 1945; Japan had been subjected to an aerial bombardment campaign that was every bit as devastating as the bombing of Nazi Germany, arguably more so. for example burned over 16 sq. miles of Tokyo and possibly killed over 100,000 people, which if true would make it the deadliest air raid of all time. This was one of several such raids on multiple large Japanese cities such as , , just to name a few of the dozens and dozens. It can safely be assumed that these attacks would continue the longer the war went on, however there was never an announcement prior to missions as to which cities were to be targeted, only the bomber crews and their command knew that.
One thing the Americans did do however was drop over Japanese cities which had not been bombed yet, warning residents to evacuate the area. leaflets were also dropped on Nagasaki after Hiroshima had been bombed on Aug 6 which specifically outlined the power of atomic bombs, and called for civilians to leave. Several Japanese recalled how ironic it was that the enemy who had been destroying their country seemed more concerned with the well being of Japanese citizens than their own government did.
After Hiroshima was destroyed, the existence of the atomic bomb was confirmed by US President Harry S Truman who issued a statement following the attack: "We are now prepared to obliterate more rapidly and completely every productive enterprise the Japanese have above ground in any city. We shall destroy their docks, their factories, and their communications. Let there be no mistake; we shall completely destroy Japan’s power to make war.".
It is true that by bombing 67+ cities and making clear that they intended to keep bombing more, that they were making clear that no city was safe. This is not a warning and should not be mistaken for one. Separately, with the exception of a handful of very early and very massive ones, firebombing raids were not nearly as deadly as the atomic bombings. Even the Tokyo raid, which was exceedingly deadly, . This is just an aside, lest one be tempted to conflate the two sorts of attacks too closely.
"It was to spare the Japanese people from utter destruction that the ultimatum of July 26 was issued at Potsdam. Their leaders promptly rejected that ultimatum. If they do not now accept our terms they may expect a rain of ruin from the air, the like of which has never been seen on this earth. Behind this air attack will follow sea and land forces in such numbers and power as they have not yet seen and with the fighting skill of which they are already well aware.".
(The easiest way I have found to see the difference is to imagine what we would feel if a terrorist did the same thing to us. "You will suffer terribly" wouldn't be considered a warning that in any way showed a concern for preservation human life. Nor would, "I can attack you anywhere, at any time." Nor would, "I might attack one of these 10 important cities in the future, but I won't tell you which, or when.").