I'm not sure where you got the idea "Ancient Irish people were never Celtic" and that modern Irish people "shouldn't" identify as Celts. The term Celtic is one that has been ascribed to many different meanings and ideas over the years. However, at its core it just refers to people who speak languages from the Celtic language family, a branch of Indo-European. At one time there were speakers of Celtic languages in much of western Europe. By the Middle Ages, though, these languages were limited to Ireland, Scotland, the Isle of Man, Wales, Brittany and Cornwall. Today, Irish, Scottish Gaelic, Manx, Welsh and Breton are still spoken by minority populations in these regions. Cornish went exctinct but has been revived with limited success in Cornwall.
Modern day Irish people who speak Irish are Celts by virtue of speaking a Celtic language, Irish. However, most people living in Ireland today do not speak Irish. How, then, can they call themselves "Celts"? Well, the word "Celt" has also been applied in these contexts:
An ethnic identity based on pan-Celticism, which is rooted in romanticism; this identity has been projected backwards onto medieval "Celtic" peoples (i.e. people who spoke Celtic languages).
Leaving aside the first one for now, the second two are very relevant to understanding why even people who don't speak a Celtic language might identify as Celts. In scientific racism, a school of philosophical thought that began in the 18th century, the Celts were identified as one of the inferior races compared to the "Anglo-Saxons". The idea that Celtic-speaking peoples are barbaric goes back to the Romans, whose enemies the Gauls spoke a Celtic language and were considered uncivilized by their Roman conquerors. This prejudice continued through the Middle Ages, adopted by the English and Lowland Scots. However, it was solidified into a biological identity by scientific racists during the so-called Enlightenment.
So thanks to the twin powers of scientific racism and English colonialism, you're left with a situation wherein the "Celts" have lost their Celtic language but are left with this "Celtic" identity that has now been assigned to them. (There are, of course, some places where the languages survived, but all Celtic languages have experienced long periods without institutional support and outright oppression from English-language authorities.) Although "Celtic" peoples have by now largely assimilated into top-tier whiteness and are no longer usually considered a separate racial category, the idea that they are a separate "people" has remained. A shared history of colonial oppression by the English (and, to a lesser and more controversial extent, the Lowland Scots) forged a sense of pan-Celticism, the extent of which as a political force should not be exaggerated but which nevertheless has been fostered by the conflation of linguistic and biological inheritances in construing the "Celt".
Irish people were among those discriminated against by this racist system which saw the Celts as inferior to the Anglo-Saxons. A trait, "Celtic", which was previously cultural and linguistic thus became seen as biologically inherent. In Ireland under British rule, most native Irish people could not vote or hold political office until reforms in the 19th century, and the native population suffered heavily under British neglect during the Potato Famine. The Highlanders in Scotland faced massive evictions during the Clearances. What's more, the trait that originally gave them their "Celtic" label, their language, was also systematically suppressed during this time. Wales has experienced similar problems since their conquest by England in the Middle Ages.
For at the same time as imperial powers were disenfranchising Celtic peoples, they romanticized them. The great heyday of Scottish romanticism with the popularization of kilts and tartan came after the Highlanders were subjugated at the Battle of Culloden and with the Clearances. In a classic act of cultural appropriation, the elites began to adopt aspects of these "Celtic" cultures as fashionable accessories to their empire. Romanticism continued with classical and medieval tropes by seeing the Celts as wilder, more passionate, and more connected to ancient paganism than their refined English rulers, but instead of looking down on these qualities, romantics valorized them - so long as they no longer posed a serious political threat to the imperial order. But the romanticism that affected English-speaking elites also affected the Celtic people's nationalist movements, since Romanticism and nationalism are two deeply intertwined movements in European history. Heroes from medieval Irish legends like Cú Chulainn and Finn mac Coul were resurrected as heroes of Irish identity. This was particularly prevalent among Anglo-Irish sympathizers to Irish nationalism like William Butler Yeats. Celt was thus repurposed as a defiant term, one you could be proud of and which united you with other sufferers under colonial rule.
So I hope that settles the question of why modern Irish people may choose to identify as Celts. It's more often members of the diaspora who lean into pan-Celticism rather than people living in Ireland, but it nevertheless remains a potent relic of imperial ideology and its counterpart, nationalism.
I'm not sure what you mean by the "ancient Irish" in the first part of your question, though. The Neolithic peoples who buit giant monuments like Newgrange were not "Celts" because they did not speak a Celtic language. How Celtic languages came to Britain is not a settled question. Was there a huge influx of Celtic-speakers from the Continent who overtook the native population? Or were the incomers a small but prestigious group who could assert strong linguistic influence without significantly displacing the locals? We have no idea. All we know is that the first languages spoken in Ireland were pre-Indo-European, a fancy word for "we have no idea". These people are best described as just Neolithic people, which is very broad but accurately sums up what we know about them.
Do we know that there were people there that didn't speak Celtic languages (and how)? Do we know when the Celtic languages showed up (like, we aren't talking about Neanderthals or some other hominid when we're talking pre-Celtic)?