By the assassin's own words, it was a crime of opportunity, and elements of his story are corroborated by multiple witnesses. But not in the way you're thinking.
"We wanted to give him more attention than he wanted to get.  They didn't want him to be seen in the same photograph with uniformed police officers."".
Now, the assassin's own words on the events that transpired. For context,he said he had driven downtown to see a scheduled parade, but he had looked at the paper wrong and didn't realize the parade was actually scheduled for a week later.
First, Bobby Kennedy had no real secuity team on the night of the assassination. His security detail consisted of a retired FBI special agent named Bill Barry, who wasn't carrying a gun, and two celebrity athletes, an NFL left tackle and an Olympic decathlete, as "bodyguards".
The LAPD had given him a security detail, but his campaign was repeatedly hostile to the assigned officers. One of the officers, Inspector Robert Rock, explained:
As a compromise, the LAPD set up 4 8-man squads to guard the perimeter of the hotel from outside, on the surrounding streets.
When Kennedy left his room on the fifth floor to head to the Embassy Room, he took the freight elevatorr, which is located in the kitchen.
When he exited the elevator en route to the Embassy Room from the kitchen, he walked through the pantry to the anteroom, and the manager on duty or a staff membee advised he come back through the pantry to enter the Colonial Room, to talk to the press.
As you say it was walking back through the pantry that Sirhan Sirhan shot him 3 times with an Iver Johnson revolver chambered in .22 lr. (coincidentally. I believe it was the same model that was used in the failed attempt to assassinate FDR that killed the mayor of Chicago).
"After I parked my car and realized that there wasn't a parade, I started walking around.  I noticed lights in a storefront window, which was the campaign headquarters for Thomas Kuchel, a Republican who was running for reelection to the U.S. Senate. I crashed that party, but there wasn't very much going on.  I struck up a conversation with someone there who suggested that a better party was going on for Max Rafferty, another Republican, at the Ambassador Hotel across the street.
After this, Sirhan found coffee in the Embassy Room anteroom, next to the pantr, and asked a hotel staff member if Kennedy would be coming through that area. The employee said he wasn't sure which way Kennedy would go, noting that Sirhan was extremely nervous and disheveled, and he was forcefully gripping and twisting a newspaper.
Now, at this point, Sirhan claims he blacked out, and the next thing he remembers is being in the Colonial Room, playing with a teletype machine:
"So I left the Kuchel party without even having a drink.  I walked across the street to the Ambassador.  I saw the Rafferty banner, and the name 'Rafferty' rang a bell.  I went to school with his daughter at John Muir High in Pasadena.  I thought she might be there.  But she wasn't.
"It was a hot night.  There was a big party, and I wanted to fit in.  I arrived there at about 8:00.5  I drank four Tom Collins.  It was like drinking lemonade.  I was guzzling them.  My body is small. It was hot in there, and I wasn't used to it.  I was feeling it, and I got sleepy.  So I wanted to go home.  It was late.".
"I went to my car. [NOTE; it is at this point thaf Sirhan likely retrieved his gun and put it in his pocket, though he denied remembering doing so] I was surprised that I made it to my car.  I remember that it was parked uphill, and I was too drowsy to drive.  I then made up my mind to go back to the Ambassador to get some coffee".
"I had never seen anything like that before...I was shit-faced drunk. My only goal was to get some coffee".
Thanks. It does sound like a crime of opportunity. Was his campaign team ever called to task about denying him proper security deal? Hardly seems adequate for a presidential candidate, not to mention one who lost his brother to an assassin.
It was then that Kennedy headed toward the pantry, and Sirhan followed a group of hotel employees into the pantry who were hoping to see Kennedy, or shake his hand. The other employees assumed he was an off-duty worker.
Well, the police incident happened the week before, so it wasnt like someone shooed them out of the room before Kennedy was shot.
"At one point in the motorcade, at 9th and Santee Streets, the vehicles came to a stop and Senator Kennedy was pulled from his vehicle by a large enthusiastic crowd.  A Traffic Enforcement Division sergeant attempted to assist the Senator back to his vehicle when it appeared to him that Kennedy needed help.  Kennedy's aides berated the sergeant and told him that they had not asked for the assistance of the police"".
It is important to note that by Kennedy's reaction, it was apparent that his staff was acting on his instructions to push back against the police presence.
"President Kennedy was murdered out in the wide open in the middle of the street on a day like that in a place like there, and you think that would be in his mind, But he could have been reading the Sunday paper in his robe..just no fear.".
Great answers, thanks! Are these quotes from a book or something? Apologies if the source should be obvious - I'm just a dabbler with no history background.