In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The reason most of the middle of the country votes against the Atlantic and Pacific coasts is due to returning hate for the condescension of the coastal liberal elites for the landlocked rubes.
You're totally right, but the 10 remaining swing voters rejected the Republicans. Their insanity also energised the Democratic base who came out (well done gen Z).
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
If you look at analysis of what helped win the primary terms, the younger being up made a huge amount of difference. That is what likely stopped the Dmeocrats from losing the Senate and helped them reduce losses immensely in the House.
Some credit is due to Biden, but it sure helps to have the HUGEST, MOST TREMENDOUS, NARCISSISTIC, FAKE-TANNED FOOL ever to have been a US citizen doing everything he can to fubar the Republican Party. In that pursuit, I do earnestly wish Trump all the success the GOP deserves.
I think it was more than an ok 2 years. Some pretty massive legislative achievements, Inflation reduction act, giant infrastructure bill, actions on sensible gun regulation. Those are the kinds of moves an effective congress makes.
Trump was the catalyst which converted the unfocused Tea Party into the MAGA Movement. Granted others, such as Gingrich, set in motion the stupification of the GOP, but it took a perverse political idiot savant to convert that into a truly malignant political movement.
Gingrich and the 1994 Republican wave started the process of dumbing down the GOP, and the 2010 Tea Party wave solidified the rise of the militantly ignorant within the GOP. Republicans had transformed themselves into expert-loathing, faith-is-everything-evidence-nothing, I HATE CHANGE radicals without a sufficiently radical leader by the mid-2010s. Trump took advantage of that.