She can call the police but she does not decide to press charges. The police would then investigate to see if there is enough probable cause a crime was committed. If they believe there is enough probable cause, they would then work with a district attorney to file charges or present the case to a grand jury. At that point there might be an arrest warrant if they feel a crime was committed.
So it means that your girlfriend can go and talk to the police, they can investigate, but only the DA can decide if charges are going to be pressed (meaning going to court). It's not automatically, "I'm saying he did this, now we're going to court.".
NAL. Us laymen tend to say say "press charges" when we mean, "Go to the police and file a complaint/report an assault." In reality, only the DA can choose whether or not to press (or drop) charges. While the sub knows what you mean, it can be important to make the differentiation clear.
Also, document EVERYTHING you remember and anything else that happens. Do not talk to her. Do not talk to the police without a lawyer.
Document and save any proof you have about your side of things. If the police show up, be polite, follow their instructions, and ask for a lawyer. Do not talk to the police about facts of the incident AT ALL without a lawyer.
Neither of you can "press charges," as the other comments point out. The real question is if you or her end up reporting it to police and then, what they decide to do with that. You should consider consulting with a criminal defense attorney in your area and weighing your options.
There exists the possibility that you might want to file a report with the police that you were raped. It’s not supposed to happen this way, but usually the first person to do so in these matters has an advantage. However, you will want to consult with an attorney first because it’s possible you could be giving evidence in favor of her claim that you raped her. (This is especially important because it could turn out that you did rape her without recalling it, despite your beliefs that you did not.).
Rape is a serious charge. You’ll want a criminal defense attorney. Most lawyers give free consultations for these matters.
I would start this process today and line up 3 consultations first thing on Monday. Be sure to ask about fee structures. It’s likely some criminal defense attorneys may take calls on the weekend to arrange a consultation during the week. This is more important than your work. A few days off work or being fired from one job is not worth years in jail.