Here’s my understanding in general of NDAs and contracts and lawyer-client confidentiality as it applies to your situation.
First, a lawyer is bound to keep confidential all discussions with clients, except in some very narrow circumstances where they can be compelled to disclose confidential information. That won’t apply to you in this case. You are absolutely safe to contact an attorney and retain them and have your information be kept confidential. If you are concerned about your employment and future civil lawsuits you should definitely contact a lawyer ASAP.
Violating an NDA is a civil offense. Your company can fire you and/or sue you for damages. That’s it. If you are successfully sued for violating an NDA, that would be public (but not what the content of the NDA was) so other future employers could search your name and have to decide whether you are worth hiring.
If for some reason company Z decided to act on your resume having information that should not have been disclosed due to your NDA, then the most likely action they will take is to talk to X or Y about it. Because you already contract with Y, and were instructed to be specific on the resume you send to Z, they may not view this as a breach at all. All three companies would be aware of the work you do with the proprietary software at some point. The issue may be if Z uses a third-party vendor for processing resumes or something. But again, you were initially instructed to be specific.
I would suggest making copies of any and all instructions you had regarding updating and sending out your resume. Back them up in several locations. Make notes now about any verbal conversations that you had, who you had then with, and what was said. And hire a lawyer who can give you more specific advice. They will absolutely keep what you tell them confidential.
I don't know if they'll make us sign another NDA. They might since my NDA is only between me, Y and X.
I end my contract with X and begin with Z next week. I think its too late to contact X. I'm scared of contacting Y because of how harsh they are. I wouldn't even know who to contact.
You can contact a lawyer. Usually the initial consult is not necessarily covered under attorney client privilege, but ask. This is usually a 30 min conversation to see if the two of you want to work together and if you’re a good match. During this initial conversation, you can explain it just as you have here.
Okay. Would it be a red flag if a lawyer says "I've worked with disputes/cases involving company Y before"? After confidentiality has been established.
Attorneys are required to keep all attorney-client communications confidential under the doctrine of attorney-client privilege. This privilege is created when an attorney-client relationship is created.
While there may be some grey areas in terms of attorney client privilege for initial consultations, or for attorneys that are not formally ‘retained’ yet, no lawyer is going to risk disbarment by sharing details of client interactions, even if technically privilege is not ‘attached’ yet.
Attorney client privilege is something that is afforded to you as a client, and is one of only a few confidentiality privileges that exist in American law. They also include clergy, doctor/patient, and spousal privilege as other examples. Typically it means that people in those positions of confidence cannot be forced to disclose any discussions you have in confidence with them, and if those confidences are disclosed without your permission, they will be inadmissible in court. So even if your attorney broke confidentiality (risking his license to practice law), his testimony or anything he says cannot be used, because it is your privilege and you get to decide if you want it disclosed.
Lawyers are confidential with any clients that are retained. That includes free consultations. So you can always contact a lawyer (you can search your states Bar association for a reference of lawyers who specialize in employment and/or NDAs) and say that you want a consultation regarding an NDA you fear you may have violated, without disclosing the specifics of the NDA at first. The attorney can advise you about how much they need to know about specifics and how confidentiality works.
I have kept notes before out of habit. I remember on what day the VP of Z said no to worry about confidentiality. And when someone from X told us NOT to be specific.
If the lawyer takes you on as a client, then you can share all the details as it will remain confidential.
Lastly, while NDAs are not my expertise, I wouldn’t freak out too much. You could be reprimanded, or if the disclosure is really as bad as you feel it is, you might be fired (or not re-hired). But I find it very unlikely for you to be sued for this. And even more unlikely for a judge or arbiter to agree that this was some hugely damaging action. Just a random redditor’s opinion of course.
No. Just a transfer of employees. Nobody absorbed any company or subcontracted. X is ending their contract-client relationship with Y. Z will be taking over as the contractor.
The NDA is only between me, Y and X. So I'm assuming they might introduce a new NDA with Z on it soon.
My main worry is if I am on the hook for putting that software name on the resume for Z. If someone sees it and decides to leak it, and then Y holds me responsible.
No, but the company won't like it probably I realize. Resume roughly had "used software 123 to do Boondoggle work". So someone who sees it can see the name of the internal tool used for Boondoggle work by Y. That is not public knowledge. And I worry that be used as an argument for damages.
I think by this point after being accepted if I asked for them to remove the old one, it would sound odd. But I'm also waiting to see lawyer.
Where it gets complicated is the attorney’s obligations to existing clients. If I tell Apple’s lawyer that I’m going to sue them, the lawyer may need to communicate that to Apple. But if the lawyer is also representing me, he has an obligation to keep that info confidential.
My confusion came from this being an internal transfer sort of deal-being told by the new company working with Y to be specific-and having conflicting information to be specific vs the normal do not be specific.
Isn't a software name + description what it is used to do on the resume- describing the inner workings of a business?
The NDA pretty much covers all inventions the company made. I'm hoping I have all the documents I have.
Thanks. Back when I initially made the mistake, I did quickly follow up the next day with an email(we had to email resumes too) that had a updated resume. So I'm hoping they used that instead.