So would you say there wasn’t really much more to rediscover about Rome during the Renaissance if most of its history was still available to a degree by Latin scholars?
In its broad historical strokes, yes, Roman history looked pretty much the same in the Middle Ages as it does today. Nor should this surprise us, since our story of Roman history is based fundamentally on the narrative found in the Roman sources themselves and Medieval people had access to those Roman sources too. There are of course some differences, notably neither Livy nor Tacitus were widely read in the Middle Ages, but a course grained history of Rome doesn't in any way depend on reading either Livy or Tacitus. Throughout most of the Middle Ages, there were two major, widely read histories of Rome: Eutropius (plus his continuers Paul the Deacon and Ladolf Sagax) and Orosius. Both of these provide a narrative of the Kingdom from Romulus to Superbus and the expelling of the kings and the rule of the Consuls (Eutropius, 1.1-9; Orosius 2.4-5). Both likewise discuss the punic wars (Eutropius, bks 2-4; Orosius, bk. 4). These could of course be supplemented by information found in other widely read Latin classics like Lucan and Sallust, but those form the fundamental outline that would have been familiar to most educated authors.
We can see how this looked in practice in the highly influential twelfth century history by Hugh of Saint Victor. It is a fairly encyclopedic history, that is comprised mostly of lists of names and regnal years, with the occasional comment to contextualise what is going on.
You can follow very pretty later 12th century manuscript from Saint Victor, whose folio references I'll be giving, though I'm taking the text from Mortenson's edition.
Then on the fourth column of 7v we find a list of these kings, first of the Latins (Latinorum) then the Albans (Albani) then the Romans (Romani). After which we have another short description, this time of the expulsion of the kings:
Then on the third and fourth column of 8r we find the list of consuls and the year of their rule counting from 1 up to 486 with Caesar Augustus. Here we have another bit of context:
At this point we must leap forwards to 24r for the Roman empire. I skip the first paragraph where he explains that he will try to follow the order of kings and kingdoms from the time of the incarnation, and explaining the division of the lists prior to the incarnation from those after the incarnation. Noting also that there are difficulties in the computation of dates that the prudent reader may need to sort out.
Of course, as we saw from the comment on the consuls, Hugh is expecting the reader to be able to fill in the notable events from their reading not only of Eutropius (or whichever continuer) but from their reading of standard school texts like Sallust (Jugurtha and Catilina), the histories of Alexander (e.g. Justin), Lucan, etc.