As the others have pointed out: rant all you like, your answer is 'Petition the court to change custody'. And I have a huge suspicion that the reason your attempts keep failing is that you are refusing to acknowledge some reality, or insisting on arguments that just don't mean anything.
Unfortunately you have, even in your summary, focused more on the emotional toll this has had on you than the legal factors of your case. Yes, you were lied to by your abusive ex. While I feel bad for you because of that, that fact is now all but irrelevant.
Yeah, people lie in family court a lot. It's underhanded but not strictly illegal. Normally, you'd have a lawyer protecting you from those lies, or you'd do something to refute them. I get that you were vulnerable at the time, but "They lied to me" is not going to be the magic bullet to just have your kids given right back to you.
You cut out several paragraphs ranting about lawyers and the court system without boiling down a few key facts:
Legal custody is not decided in a conference room. Yes, that's where you were lied to about the CPS case, but this was not the end of the discussion. When you gave them custody, did you give the kids up for adoption? What went on in court, not this conference room?
What legal steps have you taken over the years to attempt to regain custody of your children? I don't want to hear about gifts, phone calls, birthdays or anything other than legal actions you have taken.
What is the legal reason that your previous attempts have not worked. I don't want to hear "The grandparents are lying" or "the lawyers are stupid" or any variation of that - when your previous legal actions did not work there were legal reasons for it.
You say in a comment that you are "getting a letter set up for this judge". Why are you writing letters to a judge now?
You need to trim this down to just your legal questions and the facts relevant to your legal question.
I know this is intensely personal for you but please just the absolute necessary facts. You could even do bullet points in the order events happen:
The way you change custody is petitioning the Court. That's really the only answer. If you didn't petition to change it for whatever reason other than the court saying you can't petition then that ship has sailed. Your ex parents in law/ex's parents weren't your family lawyer and you should not have taken them on their word. You've had every day of a decade plus to file for a change in custody.