In a classic anthropologist/archaeologist move, I'm going to talk about some of the problems with your question before I go about answering it. This isn't because it's a bad question - I actually think it's an excellent, engaging, and important one - but instead because there are so many obstacles to finding answers to your question. Sadly, this is the case with so much of our curiosity about Pre-Hispanic civilizations of the Americas. Skip to the fourth paragraph if you want a direct answer, and to the bottom for a short summary.
The other issue I'm going to bring is how we define philosophy. isn't an academic source, but its definition of philosophy shows how much that field can be understood to contain: "the study of general and fundamental questions about existence, knowledge, values, reason, mind, and language." That's a lot of stuff. Think about how difficult it often is compare East Asian and Western European philosophy, and now try to consider how different conceptions of philosophy would have been between the Americas and Old World after some 15,000 years of separation. Philosophy often has hazy borders with fields like religion, anthropology, and history. An excellent book which deals with your question is James Maffie's "Aztec Philosophy," and that text spends a lot of time considering the question of whether or not the Aztec practiced a discrete "philosophy."2 Did the Aztec have a specific field of study that was equivalent to "philosophy," where they considered questions about the nature of the universe? Or were those questions integrated into religion, history, and other fields in ways we might not understand? Asking about Amerindian philosophy might be an anachronism. So Amerindian peoples may not have had "philosophers" in the sense that you're considering. But we can often access portions of Amerindian philosophy from religion, art, and history.
So, first of all, we've lost incredible amounts of indigenous Amerindian philosophy through European colonialism, population loss, and ideological oppression. It's common knowledge that millions of Amerindian people were killed by European diseases and conflict after 1492, and this of course reduced our ability to access their cultures' philosophies and thinkers. In addition to that, the vast majority of what might have been native philosophical texts were destroyed by the Spanish. Bishop Diego de Landa, for example, burned Mayan codices which were considered idolatrous or evil by the Catholic clergy.1 This was standard practice for many European conquests of native civilizations. Finally, European rulers generally forced Amerindian subjects to conform to European Catholicism and ways of life whenever possible.
Now, to actually answer your question after all those caveats, yes: there are a few individuals from native Amerindian civilizations who might be called philosophers. , the tlatoani or ruler of 15th century Texcoco (A member of the Aztec Triple Alliance) is perhaps the foremost of these. Some of his poetry survives to this day, and clearly tackles classic philosophical questions such as the purpose of life and nature of time. to some of his poems. Nezahualcoyotl is the most famous of the tlamatini, or "wise men" that were a feature of Aztec society. Influential historians such as León Portilla have also translated this term as "philosophers." Nezahualcoyotl is also famous for possibly having a unique approach to Aztec religion that was possibly somewhat monotheistic and disavowed human sacrifice. As a "philosopher-king," Nezahualcoyotl probably did influence society around him -- he built temples, encouraged specific rites, and generally had a wide audience.
In what might be a stretch of personal opinion, I think that the Haudenosaunee (Iroquois) Deganawida might also be called a philosopher. This man, who is also known as the Great Peacemaker, united the initial five Haudenosaunee tribes and created the Great Law of Peace. There's little evidence that points to Deganawida as a philosopher who dealt with metaphysics or epistemology or anything like that, but he was certainly a figure who revolutionized thought about community formation and polities in the Haudenosaunee world. In the United States, we often study Locke, Hobbes, and Rousseau to begin understanding the U.S. Constitution, but many scholars have argued that the Constitution was also influenced by the Haudenosaunee Great Law of Peace.4 If this is the case, it supports Deganawida's status as a philosopher who questioned the nature of politics and human relations (and then acted upon them. If we consider Deganawida a philosopher, he was certainly influential to the Iroquois, and possibly one of the more directly influential philosophers in history as a possible contributor to the U.S. Declaration of Independence -- an event with its own butterfly effect chain.
It's important to note that this particular factoid is suspect, and is quite likely the result of the bias of our records.
It is difficult to name other specific philosophers, but there are certainly other examples of Amerindian philosophy. Aztec philosophy is by far the most studied and best understood, partially because the extent of Spanish interaction with that state. But Mayan codices, statues, and writings suggest specific philosophies, as well. Scholars have written about philosophies of the Inca, Amazonian peoples, and multiple tribes that live in the modern-day U.S. Even if the names of individual philosophers have been lost, we can try and learn about the contributions they made.
In summary: It's hard to name Amerindian philosophers because of the extent of knowledge lost/oppression, and the notion of philosophy itself is probably culturally specific. But we can name a handful of Pre-Columbian Amerindian philosophers, such as the Acolhua philosopher-king Nezahualcoyotl and possibly even the Iroquois Great Peacemaker Deganawida (as a political philosopher). Even if we can't name many philosophers, the study of Amerindian philosophies is an increasingly large field.
You're totally right; I wrote that having read only a little bit about it, and even then it was clear that it was uncertain. That's why I said possibly, but thanks for clarifying!
1 Timmer, D. (1997). Providence and Perdition: Fray Diego de Landa Justifies His Inquisition against the Yucatecan Maya. Church History, 66(3), 477-488.
2 Maffie, J. (2014). Aztec Philosophy: Understanding a World in Motion. University Press of Colorado.
3 León Portilla, M. (1990). Aztec Thought and Culture: A Study of the Ancient Nahuatl Mind. University of Oklahoma Press.
TCUs (Tribal Colleges/Universities) also recognize such Indigenous frameworks. TCUs are fully accredited places of higher education that are specifically geared to serve Indigenous populations in the United States and are either owned or operated by a Tribe. For example, Northwest Indian College, a college I formally attended, has several courses that focus on Indigenous philosophy (in addition to Western philosophies), particularly their course on "Native Science.".
4 Payne, S. (1996). The Iroquois League, the Articles of Confederation, and the Constitution. The William and Mary Quarterly, 53(3), 605-620.