You should retain counsel here. Both to deal with DCFS and to seek an order on custody and parenting time.
It is no uncommon for DCFS to be involved in or even temporarily take custody of a newborn who’s mother is in active drug addiction. That you had a baby with a drug addict creates at least some level of concern, your child needs to be examined and potentially treated for drug exposure, and your child needs the involvement of trained professionals to see that this complex situation reaches some state where the child has care and stability.
In my experience, if mom makes a safety plan/ custody plan for baby, dcfs can't just jump in to override, unless there is danger to the child. We had a foster child who was relinquished to dad, mom gave birth in jail, while still having an open case with several other children. The baby ended up in foster care, but not until several weeks later when there was a hotline(abuse) call on dad. She also had a previous baby taken into dcfs care while in the hospital, but she was younger with fewer resources (aka, a lawyer) at that point.
I am an IL attorney, but I do not practice in this area and this is not legal advice, just information. Because you were not married to the mother, you are not "legally" the child's father until after birth AND you file a Petition to Establish Parentage in Chicago/Cook County, IL and are legally adjudicated the father by a judge. This may required a DNA test or potentially signing an acknowledgement of parentage (basically saying you agree you are the father and will take on all parental responsibilities for the child, waving a DNA test - I believe this can only be done with the birth mother's consent and in this case DCFS may have to consent or because of DCFS involvement it may not be an option). You absolutely need to contact a Chicago Family Law attorney immediately.
Putative Father Registry. It's not punitive. From a certain POV its the opposite of punitive fatherhood.
First, having a lawyer, even if she isn't the perfect lawyer...is a thousand times better for your outcome than no lawyer.
I am going to assume (and assuming is dangerous!) that DCFS is much, much less confident that you are the father of this child, than you are. They are certainly not going to just launch a child out to Maine, since there is a possibility if s/he needs to boomerang back if you end up not being daddy. Don't take that part personally. It happens a ton - mom says 100% sure one guy is dad, but he ends up not. If you were local, it wouldn't be as big of deal. I would say that in my experience, most of the time, dcfs is going to take mom's word for it until someone challenges it. Since you have been out of state for some time, dcfs are the ones questioning.
That said, you should find someone familiar with Cook County DCFS. I am assuming mom is planning on staying & giving birth in the city. We had foster kids in 3 different counties, including cook and cook county family court has just enough different shit, that you will want someone familiar with that court/judges in particular.
In IL, they will test the baby for drugs at birth if they suspect substance abuse and if the baby is positive, it is automatically removed from the mother's care. I don't know the exact legal basis for this, but I do know it's how it is done.
There are many facets to who/what/why dcfs does what they do & it is very case specific. I would imagine the drug use and potential NICU stay factors into it as well. While in dcfs care, the child will have medicaid and everything is 100% covered. So baby's best interest might not be to go to a dad who may or may not be able to put baby on insurance if he is not on the birth certificate, ya know? Just putting that out there.