/u/tjcase10 provides a fine list of books about life in Nicaraga after 1979 (the year of Sandinista victory). You may also be interested in about Ronald Reagan and Iran-Contra.
Recommendation for a detailed account of the Commonwealth D-Day landings at Gold, Juno and Sword? I have Balkoski's books on Utah and Omaha, looking for something similar.
As for recommendations go, I picked up The Greek Myths, by Robert Graves, and frankly every other compendium I've seen now looks very not-good by comparison. It purports to have every myth in it (and I can believe it), has loads of annotations to explain lost context or provide interpretive insight, and lists every permutation of a given myth. So, if you're looking for a good reference for Greek mythology, I'd say that's top tier. But maybe it's already considered the gold standard by academics, and I'm just some troglodyte who's showed up yammering about this great new thing called "sliced bread." The reviews seemed positive so I hope I'm not recommending bunk.
Thank you! I'm already stoked to read this. I can handle academic, but because I'm not super versed I've been reading things by people like Dan Jones and Thomas Asbridge.
I'd also recommend the Compendium of Symbolic and Ritual Plants in Europe, by Marcel De Cleene and Marie Claire Lejeune. It's truly fascinating, and while it only had half of what I was looking for, I'm not unsatisfied with it. Symbology is really cool stuff.
Also, on the subject of historiography, a thought occurred to me the other day. It seems as though a substantial portion of historical conflicts can be framed as a struggle between the rural and the urban. Both the rural and the urban, due to the circumstances of their environment, tend to have different needs and different cultures, and this in turn tends to cause friction. I'd elaborate more on what specific environmental differences drive different needs and cultural trends, but I don't want this post to get too long. Suffice it to say that population (in terms of count and density) is the primary environmental factor which spurs the two in different directions. An easy example of a semi-trivial difference is the more rapid pace of linguistic drift in urban areas. More speakers means more people messing with the language. With fewer speakers, rural areas display a much slower rate of linguistic change.