The short: Native Americans lived across the entire North American continent, and therefore explored it, but general knowledge of any given group was probably more restricted to local regions since North America is huge and contained hundreds of different peoples, languages, and cultures. Many of the monuments we currently recognize in the U.S. were also valued by Native Americans, who wove those places into myths, stories, and religion.
The long: There are two correct answers to the first part of your question, and they contradict each other: Native Americans simultaneously completely explored the continent, and did not explore the vast majority of it (also, I'm going to write about North America here, since the examples you listed are from there). Millennia before the Columbian Exchange, Native Americans lived on all corners of North America, from Yukon to Florida to Baja California. So, as a whole, Native Americans knew of and explored all the places that we know to today (perhaps aside from physically reaching the highest peaks or most desolate deserts).
But, Native Americans were not one people, and they were spread across a vast area. North America is really, really big. Imagine living without planes, cars, trains, or even wheels. It would take years and years to travel around any significant portion of the continent, even by boat. So the indigenous peoples of the Hudson Bay probably had little to no conception of the American Southwest's deserts - along with being thousands of miles away from each other, these areas and peoples were separated by hundreds of different languages, cultures, and ethnicities. An average Iroquois individual in New York might know about Niagara Falls, but probably wouldn't have heard of the Rocky Mountains - just as a Swiss person in the Middle Ages might have known about the Matterhorn and not the Caspian Sea, which are a similar distance apart.
We have very little direct information about how much some Native Americans would have traveled, but its safe to say that some did, and often extensively. Many Native Americans were nomadic or semi-nomadic, and so would have known large areas well. And areas with high populations often had extensive trade networks which would have facilitated knowledge about distant regions. For example, we know that Native Americans at the Mississippian site of Cahokia, in western Illinois, were trading for goods coming from the Gulf Coast. Cultures in the Southwest traded with those in central Mexico. And many indigenous Mesoamerican societies had traditions of itinerant professional merchants (the Aztecs called them pochteca) who provide some of the best evidence we now have that some Native American individuals would have traveled widely.
I had heard in the past that the above mentioned grand canyon was repeatedly used as a place of security during periods of famine and conflict and abandoned in more forgiving times on account of its difficulty of access. My guess would be any culture, nomadic or sedentary might try to maintain or at least be aware of a sanctuary of this kind. are there other popular tourist sites like that that were used similarly? Many places that remain "pristine" wilderness into modern times are found in the regions which were most punishing for enemies amd conquerors to travel in.
I don't know much about the Grand Canyon's historic use, but I do want to add a comment about the second half of what you're saying. I'm sure that many areas that are understood as "pristine" wilderness today were relatively empty in a similar way to what you're saying; perhaps they were temporary defensive refuges, unfavorable locations, or simply areas that people chose to avoid because of some internal cultural belief. But it is very difficult to say that all, or even most, of today's pristine wildernesses were regions that were punishing for enemies, or refuges for locals, or even empty in the past. A good example is Florida's Calusa people, who lived in the area of South Florida including today's wondrously empty Everglades - yet in their time, it was one of the most densely populated areas of the U.S. Modern Guatemala and Belize's wild jungles were once home to great Mayan cities which were some of the more densely populated places on the entire planet. Most of those forests that exist today would have been farms and towns 1500 years ago. I'm sorry that I didn't answer your question about sites used similarly to your example, but I don't know the answer to that question and felt like I should say what I did.
And then for each natural wonder on the left side of the table it shows adjacent to it on the right side of the table the Native interaction with that natural wonder and the Native opinion of that natural wonder?
In 2017, a of modern tribe members' relations to Arches National Park was completed by the members, the Universit of Arizona, and the National Parks Service. Six tribal groups, made up of Ute, Hopi, Pueblo, and Paiute peoples, participated in the study and commonly recognized spiritual importance of the arches. Each tribe had different connections to the part but commonly said that the national park was a ceremonial area (often partially because arches provided unobstructed views of the sacred La Sal mountains), arches are considered portals to other places and times, and rock spires are often sentient spirits.
Sorry, but I don't know of any such table, nor do I really know specifics about Native American conceptions of most places in the U.S. There are so many places, so many tribes, and so many stories! If you feel up to it, though, that would be an incredibly cool thing for you to make.
Now, to the second half of your question. Many North American natural places' amazingness is only further proven by the fact that various Native Americans recognized the value of many of the same places that we do today. However, indigenous peoples didn't turn natural monuments into national parks; instead, we know Native Americans valued places like Monument Valley because they built myths and legends about them, and often identified them as sacred places. Mount Washinon, the highest peak in the Northeast U.S., was considered a sacred home of the gods by the local Abenaki people, who didn't climb it in deference to that fact. Kiowa, Lakota, Cheyenne, and Sioux peoples all have legends about Devil's Tower, in Wyoming, which is now a National Monument. So, I would argue that it's safe to say Native Americans would have historically recognized the beauty of many of the U.S.'s current natural wonders - and modern Native Americans' stories and attitude towards national monuments (which also often contain their sacred lands) only continues that tradition.
Would the Natives not have been mind-blown by Niagara Falls, for example, which is very awe-inspiring?
Yosemite was home to the Awhahnachee people. They had towns and communities within the valley itself, which they called Ahwahne, and lived their regular lives in it. The Awhahnachee also had a legend about Half Dome, which they called Tis-Se'-Yak. The legend involves a woman who was beaten by her husband, threw her basket at him, and then was turned into a weeping stone (Half Dome), as were her husband and the basket. Full versions of the story are easily google-able.
Thanks! What do you know about specific natural wonders, such as the three that I mentioned in the question: Yosemite, Utah's sandstone arches, and the Grand Canyon?
Several tribes, such as the Paiute, have legends about how the Grand Canyon was made. The Ancestral Puebloans, an ancient Native American culture, built granaries in the canyon (such as those on Nankoweap Trail). Another Grand Canyon tribe, the Havasupai, tell legends about two natural stone pillars in their lands. This feature, called , has several stories about it, including onemthat says it protects the area. Another story says the pillars are the remains of three tribe members who were turned to stone after they regretted leaving the tribe and looked back at their village.
Sunset Crater was a REALLY important deal to a number of Native Americans in the local area. It was erupting during the apex of the Ancestral Puebloans (Anasazi), and a high point of the Hohakam peoples as well (who were from near Phoenix). The Sinaguan people lived around there and modern day Flagstaff -- the name derives from the Spanish who were mystified because of the lack of rivers despite great culture (sin - without, agua - water). The last great culture that was around that area who went to Wupatki (Woo-pot-key - hopi word = to cut long) were the Cohonina that were closer to Grand Canyon area.
Hi, National Park Ranger here, and although I do not have specific information about Yellowstone (even though I worked there) I do have some facts about the Southwest.
An eruption for these people was an insane message from the Gods, and cultures clustered from miles away. Sinagua people were thrust into a cultural mixing the likes that had not been seen much in America. Their architecture grew by leaps and bounds, their agriculture, even their beliefs. Wupatki, is a very special place for all those reasons. It has a ballcourt -- which is typical of the Hohokam. Architecture was greatly influenced by the Ancestral Puebloans with beautiful multi-story dwellings (Wupatki and Wukoki). And agriculture was rampant at that time due to the cinders deposited by Sunset Crater. This provided a certain fertilizer, which grew more crops in that land than ever before.
It was also a very peaceful time and there is little evidence of warfare or struggle, until of course too many people were using the resource. Still then, it was seen as people and cultures kindof spinning out because of overuse -- like Cahokia.
Do you know anything about what Native Americans thought about the Northwest Territories, and the natural wonders there? And what they thought about the other natural wonder in Canada?