You can be fired or punished less severely for a failed drug test depending on your company policy. Both outcomes are legal. If they treat refusing to test as a positive result for drugs that is legal too, generally speaking.
All of the above MAY or MAY NOT be tied to whether or not your injury is compensable, i.e. workers comp pays for it. A Workers Compensation or Personal Injury attorney in your area (use those as Google terms) will have the most accurate info and may or may not offer free consults.
Your story seems to imply your boss will look the other way on the drug test if you don't seek medical treatment and potentially 1) get prescribed medication or 2) get placed on restricted duty, either of which would negatively affect the numbers he is judged by. Your consult with your workers comp / personal i judy attorney will tell you whether or not you can file for a workers comp claim in 30 days when you can pee clean, assuming you abstain. This claim if accepted may or may not cover any previous medical care you have sought.
There are two separate issues involved here as it relates to the drug screen: employment policy and the work related injury. I can't comment too much on the employment portion but in my experience, so long as the employer has a solid and well known policy regarding drug usage and the consequences, you can be terminated.
Regarding the drug testing: First, WC is a very employee friendly system; however, Indiana is probably one of the more employer friendly states out there by statute.
Injuries are typically compensable (or accepted) so long as the injury arose out of and through the course of employment. So, if you hurt your toe while you were performing work for your employer, generally the claim should be accepted so long as you reported it timely (I can't recall the timing in Indiana but general rule of thumb is 30 days).
The claim \can\ be denied for a positive drug screen IF the employer can prove that the drug usage contributed to the injury. This is where it gets tricky -because if you smoked marijuana the day before the injury, the test may show positive but this doesn't prove that you were intoxicated at the time of injury. The timing of the drug screen then becomes crucial -was it immediately following the accident or was it the next day? A week later? Etc. That's where the defense comes in.
That being said, some carriers or TPAs will roll the dice on denying a claim because of a drug screen. I think it's personally stupid but I'm usually a conservative person when it comes to that and don't see the point in denying something that the courts will eventually force me to pay for.
I know several companies that will do post-accident drug screening and terminate the employees for failure to complete or a positive screen; however, it's rare for me to approve a WC denial because I would more than likely not prevail on behalf of the company should this be presented in court for the reasons above.
The problem in your case is that it sounds like a relatively minor injury and Indiana is not a heavily litigious state when it comes to comp. With accepted injuries, the employer/carrier does have medical control; however, if they failed to report the WC injury to their carrier (and thereby to the State), seek medical treatment as necessary and keep documentation of your visits, mileage, prescription costs, etc. They may eventually redirect your care, and that's ok, but you can make the argument that you sought medical treatment because your employer failed to provide it to you.
Also, it sounds like your employer was also trying to keep you from reporting an injury since they asked whether this was an incident or an accident -and both requires drug testing. That deserves a side eye.
My advice right now is to reach out to the WCB ( and ) for information. In my experience, the case coordinators with the WCB are very helpful (the most helpful that I've worked with actually) and while they can't provide advice, they can inform you what your rights are under the comp system.