All depends on the CCRs. The trailer may or may not be addressed; if trailers are allowed, then they’re allowed. If they’re not, they’re not.
That said, HOA battles can get nasty and petty (no comment about the current post, OP…). Is everything you’ve done and plan to do 100% up to snuff? The board could decline to enforce it against him, but send you a fine the next time one of your relatives parks improperly when they visit or the next time you leave your trash cans out too long etc. In other words the cost (social, time, goodwill) of enforcement under the CCRs against this neighbor, especially since he’s clearly someone your neighbors like and trust to hire, may far outweigh the benefits.
I’d argue he’s not running a business out of his home in the sense usually implied by the CCRs as he doesn’t conduct the work there and the noise that is created would be created by anyone getting their lawn mowed; the difference in noise between his mower and a homeowner mowing their lawn is irrelevant because unless the CCRs prohibit hiring a lawn service and/or dictate a maximum number of times you can mow your lawn, it doesn’t matter who they hire to do the work.
The bottom line is that if CCRs are being violated, you could specifically list those grievances and ask the HOA to address them with a demand letter (eg, require him to get an offsite location).
This neighbor has had clients dropping off payments on a shared driveway, parking illegally to drop payments off. He operates a commercial mower which runs daily, holidays, Sunday mornings 7 AM. Etc Typically someone mows once per week with a small mower for a townhome. This is nothing like someone who works on their computer from home.
Thanks for the input. The noise of the mower constantly is very disruptive, smell and fumes of gas on shared driveway…I am 100% sure this is the reason that the TWP ordinance exists as well as the section in the covenant which prohibits businesses.
He also likely isn't violating the spirit of the rule which is 'not have a ton of traffic at his home for his business'. Not 'you cannot work from home', since the vast majority of the USA works from home.
But people are going to have to cut their grass either way right? So the noise isn't going to change.
I see that you have 6 downvotes to this comment. However, I think that I agree with you. Lots of HOAs have rules against running a business out of your home. I think most people won't mind if someone is just working from home. But a business sometimes involves clients coming over, moving equipment in and out, repairing equipment, creating noise... Yes, lawns in your neighborhood need to be mowed so that particular noise won't really be reduced. But overall this does seem to be the type of business that should be pushed back on.
One idea is to find out the noise ordinance in your town for Sundays. 7:00 a.m. seems early. I know that my area has different rules for Sat/Sun than weekdays.
If the board members use him for their lawn needs then, unfortunately, it's unlikely that they'll push back on him unless you can get more neighbors on your side.
The Twp ordinance does say no home occupations in our neighborhood. The HOA is allowing it outside the covenant. He tows a homemade trailer that is duck taped. No insurance, no license.