Yes! Although the Church was not in favour of it, since it went against the 'natural purpose' of sex.
The Eleventh Century penitential known as the Scriftboc in Cotton Junius 121 contains the following penance:
You might think that's a particularly harsh penalty, and it's significantly more than those for sleeping with your slave (although that also carried secular consequences), and it's on par with the penance suggested for bestiality, although far less than that for incest.
It's interesting to note that there's no spiritual opprobrium for the (implied) woman actually performing the act; ostensibly the Church doesn't care what you get up to on the road to sex, it just wants you to get there. The penance is specifically for the man careless enough to blow his load before the main performance, so to speak.
So fasting as a penitent act revolved around limiting rather than avoiding food, and also either cutting back or avoiding entirely meats, dairy, eggs, wine or oil. Fasters were typically limited to one meal a day, which in this period was usually in the mid-afternoon. Winter was typically chosen because there would be less need for physical labour, but also because food would also be more scarce. There was a surprising amount of theological debate as to whether or not it was appropriate to consume eggs and dairy while fasting, and dispensation could be given for either, as well as for a small morning snack. Indeed, the Scriftboc urges clergy to judge each sinner individually, and tailor the fasting to the person's character.
What would 7 winters of fasting actually entail? I assume people didn't fast completely for 3-5 months. Was there particular food items that were avoided?
Yes, the sin is in the spilling of the seed rather than in the act itself. It's important to see these as penitential acts within the pre-Enlightenment mindset; while the fasting may be supervised by a priest, it was to he expected that the penitent comply fully lest they endanger their very soul.