The message would perhaps have worked in 1943, when belief in final victory was happy without total delusion, but with the Thousand Year Reich crumbling about them in Year 12, the message was clear enough, but observed to spur resentment far more than enthusiasm. The Voelkische Beobachter's exhortation to ""see the citizens of Kolberg as an example for ourselves. We do not think of what happened in 1806 but experience it as in 1945, as though a part of our own lives" was spot on, but with quite the opposite reflection being taken away than that they meant! The final cut of the film had removed some of the worst scenes of destruction in recognition of the state of things, but the entire film itself simply served to stoke despair. Themes such as that of the character Maria, who loses everything but knows it is worth the cost of victory, simply couldn't resonate. In the finale, she is told:
In any case though, that wasn't the message the Nazis wanted to be taken away from it. The film premiered on January 30th, 1945 and it was hoped to be a boost to morale on the home front, as well as an inspiration for the troops, to see the good German folk of Kolberg triumph against the forces of Napoleon. In his study of the propaganda value of the film, David Culbert identifies six specific aims that were intended:
Some of them are still available if you look, and those which were non-ideological even end up on German television from time to time, as I have been led to understand. YouTube would definitely have some and I know that a number of notable ones even have proper releases on DVD, and maybe even Blu-Ray? In any case, the power of cinema was one that the Nazis, and Goebbels in particular, recognized, and I'll focus on the story of one film in particular as it is the most famous.
Kolberg, based on the 1807 siege of the town of the same name by Napoleon, began production in 1943, with the intention of being a sprawling epic of proportions on the level of any Hollywood film, the most expensive German production of the period. Although from the start it was intended as a bolster for morale, after filming wrapped, and it premiered in early 1945, the allegory of a town standing up to the French against all odds was quite on the nose, with the Soviets beating at the gates and the Western Allies not far behind. There of course is a deeper irony in the fact that the film shows victory as the French give up, while the real siege ended with the peace and the French 'minorly irritated', the town itself holding out but at great cost for the country as a whole, with Berlin occupied and Prussia the ones forced to sue for peace, something that at least the more historically conscious viewers couldn't avoid thinking on.
Kolberg was hardly the first film with such themes, an in fact it was one of some two dozen or so historical films produced by the Nazis which were intended to show parallels to the German people of the current era and struggles of the past that highlighted Germanic glory or else echoed the struggle (notable ones include Ohm Krüger from 1941, Bismarck in 1940, and Die Entlassung in 1942). But it was by far the most sprawling and ambitious, shot in color, costing millions, and allegedly using some 187,000 people in the production (although documentation of the claim is scarce). This of course was at a time when manpower needs were becoming dire, yet 5,000 actual soldiers were granted leave to be extras in the battle scenes. Goebbels himself took on the uncredited role of executive producer and macromanaged many aspects of the film to ensure it was the masterpiece he envisioned, even for the actual regalia of the Emperor to be brought to set for use in portraying Frederick Wilhelm II!
Originally intended to be released by the end of 1943, production continued to overrun, taking nearly a year, resulting in the 1945 premier, timed to coincide with the anniversary of Hitler's assumption of power. At the original point of release, while Germany had experienced set-backs, and was on the defensive, the impact of the film was envisioned somewhat differently of course, doubly so when the credits claim work began in 1942, a clue to the audience to believe work began while Germany still was riding high. Goebbels wrote on May of 1943 about the first meeting for the production that:
Even Goebbels perhaps knew how empty the message inevitably was, skipping the Berlin premier, but he did his best not to show it in his writings which praise its excellence and even talk in mid-April of another epic to follow it. The grandious plans for distribution to the various neutral countries were made, but came to nothing due to the destruction of the remaining printing labs in Berlin, and the shortages of nitrocellulose, resulting in only a few dozen prints being made, and barely enough for the screenings in Germany. In total, the film was an abject failure by almost every measure, most derided by those who attended the special screenings, and seen by a mere few thousand in the small theatrical run it was able to achieve.
The material shortages of the war, and the simple demands of a production that size, not to mention Goebbel's micromanagement, ensured that vision came to nothing, but only gave deeper meaning to what the film represented in his mind, as now more than ever they needed this as "an answer to all the questions currently preoccupying the German people". The messages would be hard to miss for even the most rudimentary film student, and the structure of the film as well, told as a retrospective by the leader, Gneisenau, who had led the defense served to further emphasize that trust must remain with Hitler to lead Germany to final victory. Although the main premier was in Berlin, a special premier was even more on the nose, with a reel air-dropped to the garrison of La Rochelle, holed up on the French coast.
But while some diehards in Germany believed in the vain hopes carried on the airwaves by Nazi ideologues, it was quite hard to do so when juxtaposed against the backdrop of destruction and deprivation that most of the population experienced daily. The garrison in La Rochelle didn't particularly appreciate the obvious implications to hold out at all costs, and in the many free screenings put on for the Wehrmacht and the Volkssturm, they didn't much appreciate the message either. Most knew the cause was lost, and they would prefer to make it through intact as opposed to be " [made]happy that we will be burned to a crisp here" as one recalled.
A sequence clearly intended to inspire German womanhood to steel themselves for sacrifice, and see themselves as playing a key role in the final victory, it might have been easier to identify with for people who hadn't already experienced the reality of that loss.
Although also awed by your erudition, I should add something that was not political propaganda to galvanize the masses: Die Feuerzangenbowle (1944) a silly little comedy about a home-schooled writer who feels he's missed out on the high school experience and so goes to a public high school under another name, and becomes a prankster. It was intended to be escapist fluff to take people's minds off of things like the Russian front, Italy, George Patton...
---. "Kolberg (Germany, 1945): The Gobbels Diaries and Poland's Kolobrzeg Today" in World War II, Film, and History. edited by John Whiteclay II Chambers & David Culbert. Oxford University Press, 1996. 67-77.
Ascheid, Antje. Hitler’s Heroines Stardom & Womanhood In Nazi Cinema. Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 2003.