No, it's not an offence. It's a pretty empty threat: "you wouldn't let me tug your arm" isn't grounds for eviction. Even if your lease explicitly allowed it it's likely that a judge would find that the breach is not material or that the clause is unconscionable or contrary to public policy.
Well the thing is, there's no lease involved. Probably should have mentioned this earlier, but I was trying to keep things as abstract as possible: they're my parents.
My Mom verbally harasses and threatens me just like she has since I was 5. I'm 32 now. She's physically choked me before, pointed a gun at me, and pointed a knife at me. Just yesterday, she was talking about how hard it is for her to get up and open the sliding door for our dogs to be let out. I suggested that we look into a way to open the door remotely, such as a smart device which has such a capacity. Her immediate response? "FUCK YOU!".
Needless to say, that really pissed me off. It was so random, but that really is how she is. That night I was verbally confronting her about her awful, disgusting behavior, and that's when my Dad pulled my arm. I didn't like that and politely asked him to stop...you know the rest.
I'm at my wits end. She'll harass me, start random fights with me, tell me how worthless I am, point weapons at me and physically try to push me around. But she gets away with it because I'm much larger than her and everyone thinks its totally fine for her to do what she does, even the police. The night she tried to find a gun to point at me (unprovoked), I called the cops, and they said, "This is her house Even if I found you unconscious on the ground bleeding out with a frying pan embedded in your head, I'd take you to jail and not her". I know that if I even so much as touched her I would be in prison.
I have a guess as to what you're going to say. "Surely you deserve it in SOME way and you're just not being introspective." No. Outside of laying down like a dog and just taking it every time she does some random mean bullshit, I literally cannot be nicer to this woman. I have tried everything to control my own behavior, but she'll just find something else to harass me over. It never, ever ends, and she always, always starts it. I promise you this.