Ah, this story that has been a fascination of mine since I heard it as a little child. It has the right amount of “Indiana Jones and Temple of Doom” feast vibe to persist for centuries, you’ll hear it as the origins of dishes like Steak Tartare or Pastirma/Basturma or various stews. One April Fools day I even pranked a bunch of friends that I was able to recreate this recipe using my golden retriever!
So would this nomad sous vide” steak work? Imagine putting raw tenderloin on your shoulders, strapping a 50 pound backpack over it, and going on a 25 mile hikes every day for a week. You are gonna feel miserable, there is a good chance you are going to get injured, and if you try to eat the meat after that, you are going to have serious, probably even life threatening food poisoning.
Putting irregular sized objects between the saddle and the horse will almost certainly injure the animal. There is a reason why before putting the saddle mat, you brush the horse to remove any foreign objects like dirt, sand or even hair knots.
Meat dehydration is one of the earliest forms of food preservation. Dried meat is a staple for nomadic populations, even now you can buy jerky in every gas station. You will find dehydrated meat even on ISS - It’s light, packs a lot of calories, and does not spoil, even without refrigeration. And yes, the nomads were carrying it inside their saddlebags. The Mongolian traditional air dried meat, borts, can be dehydrated to the level of the bouillon cubes. Drop a pinch of it in a leather pouch with some water, keep it close to the horse skin, and you will have some lukewarm soup. Just don’t put it under the saddle.
To summarize, 2 liters of horse blood will be enough to sustain you both with nutrition and hydration for a day.
As a final note, I have some recollection about religious/spiritual/medicinal use of meat on top of horses, but I have not found sources for that. May be someone who specializes in history of Tengrism will have more information.
So in that same vein (pun not intended), there's stories of Mongol horsemen puncturing minor veins and drinking the blood of their horses to keep themselves hydrated. Is there any truth to these claims?
I have not researched this claim. There are some written records (Marco Polo for example, so beware) and even videos on the Internet showing this. I would not put my trust in the internet videos, however - you can get an old horse in Mongolia for roughly 100$, if you charge tourists 25$ a pop to “demonstrate the old practice” you’ll make a nice profit.
But we cannot dismiss the story completely, even if Ammianus book 31 chapter 2 reads as anti-nomadic propaganda - describing the Huns as “race savage beyond all parallel”, “two-legged beasts” who scar the faces of their babies, don’t eat cooked food, don’t sleep under a roof etc.
Second, keeping raw meat in humid environment with temperature range of 37-40 degree Celsius is providing the perfect environment for bacteria growth. It is a recipe for food poisoning, not for food preservation.
Let’s talk nutritional value first. Protein is 4 calories, carbohydrates 4 calories and fat 9 calories per gram. Horse blood is on average 60% plasma. 7% of it is protein, so we are talking 42 grams of protein or 290 calories. Blood glucose probably will be about a gram per liter for another 4 calories (healthy level of 72-114mg per dL). Triglycerides will be about less than a half gram, for another 4 calories (horses have levels that are 3-4 times smaller than the human ranges). Hemoglobin in horses is higher than in humans, probably 170-190 g per liter. Not all of it can be converted to energy, but it is easily another 700 calories. So give or take, you can expect 1000 calories per liter of horse blood.
Now, can you drain enough blood out of a horse, without significant impact? Mongolian horses are about half the size of a typical western horse - 170 - 250 kg, and have about 8 liters of blood per 100 kg of mass. So it comes to 12 to 20 liters of blood, and being able to drain 10% of the total volume, so it checks out.
It would be interesting to see if someone that specializes in the History of Tengrism will have a comment on possible religious/spiritual practices of such bloodletting.
But even if the science is there, I highly doubt that someone will willingly injure one of the most prized possessions just for a day worth of nutrition. A wound like that will heal for weeks, it will be a weak spot for a year and will leave scar tissue. Let’s not ignore the risk of infection, too.
I want to try to find some more information on it. I know my old anthropology textbook has a section on it so I'm going to try to find the proper name for it.
I always looked at this as “The Americans are hardy people, if they are stuck in the desert without supplies, they drink from the cooling systems of their cars”. Did it happen? Yes, at least before massive use of antifreeze. Would it work? Yes, probably. Was it a common occurrence and were people planning their coast to coast drives with it in mind? Not at all.
So with all of this recurring evidence, that must make the tale somewhat more likely, right? Ammianus might have been fudging things a bit to make the Huns look worse and al-Dimashqi may have misreported, but with dozens of citations ranging from late antiquity through the nineteenth century, surely that makes a case? Unfortunately, things aren't quite that simple. For one thing, as I mentioned, these accounts aren't necessarily all independent of one another. Nineteenth-century explorers of Central Eurasia might have had Ammianus or Joinville in mind, and a bias to record what they saw in accordance with those reports; so too with the Islamic travelers and historians (and who knows, possibly even the Jewish ones). This risk is increased if these peoples did do something with meat under their saddles, but it wasn't intended for human consumption—either as a spiritual thing, as /u/petrovchris suggests, or veterinary per the suggestion of the journalist . It's all too easy to understand how these circumstances might have led to the rumor that the Mongols or other peoples eat saddle-meat might have begun...
I don't know much about mongol practices, or horses, and I don't want to stake anything on this, but I do remember learning in my anthropology courses about how currently existing nomadic herders will bleed their animals and mix the blood with milk to make a drink they consume. The animals are too valuable to routinely kill and that's one of the ways they get nutrition from them.
Edit: a quick Google search brings up the Maasai, and that definitely rings some bells. They're the folks who mix blood with milk from their herds.
Edit: I found the source in my old textbook. "Jim Igoe, Conservation and Globalization: A Case Study of Maasai Herders and National Parks in East Africa. Belmont, CS:Wadsworth, 2004".