I'm not sure I understand your question. The Hellenistic period begins in 323 BCE (not 500), upon the death of Alexander and the fracturing of his brief empire into dynastic kingdoms ruled by his successors (the diadochoi), e.g. Ptolemy in Egypt. For the Near East, the majority of the territory would eventually fall under the dynasty of the Macedonian Seleucus, marking a paradigm shift and a convenient horizon of periodization when writing history textbooks.
Granted the Hellenistic period begins c. 323 but why is the transition to Seleucid Empire portrayed as such an epoch shifting event in ways that the transition from the Assyrian to the Neo-Babylonian empire or the Neo-Babylonian to the Persian empire is not? It seems conventional dating schemes treat the classical era as its own thing and as fundamentally different than earlier Near Eastern history. Is this arbitrary? Does reflect a European bias? Or did the Middle East and the larger world change so drastically with the Macedonian conquests that we enter a new period in history? I'm just trying to wrap my head whether the Classical Era, say from Alexander to Mohamed, is a useful designator.
I think I can offer some insight: I think this is partially because the transition between the Assyrian and Achaemenid empires doesn’t appear to have been met with a stark cultural shift. The Hellenistic period in the Middle East brought with it something called Hellenistic syncretism which ushered in various aspects of Hellenistic culture from which gymnasiums were established along with defining local gods as being equivalent to Greek counterparts (hence syncretism). This wasn’t the case with every city (I believe Babylon has little evidence of Hellenism) but it became a widespread cultural paradigm on an unprecedented level.
So that the Parthian king when sitting at a performance of the Bacchae with the Armenian monarch, and after having defeated Marcus Crassus at the Battle of Carrhae, used his actual head as a prop. That Greek culture became so important for subsequent non-Greek rulers after Alexander is significant.
yes, as /u/Mumtaztic8_8 also says, the Hellenistic period really introduces a paradigm shift not just for the Near East, for but the entire Mediterranean and beyond. For the first time, peoples from Afghanistan to the Straits of Gibraltar came to align (some more than others) to a common "Hellenistic" culture. Greek language, Greek ruling classes, and Greek ideas about culture and science proliferated, though thinking of the Hellenistic koine is "Greek" is not necessarily correct. Many different regions had input into what it meant to be a "Hellenistic" city, or to be a citizen of the "Hellenistic" world. It is the first time since the Bronze Age that we see a real blending, often across political borders, of ideas. Trends in Hellenistic art are a great example, and evidence of these developments are easy to trace archaeologically. Hellenistic artistic styles went through phases which percolated through the whole ancient world, were absorbed, were modified, and reflected.
Interestingly enough, Rome was herself "just another" Hellenistic city, at least at first. Very often on this sub, folks ask questions related to how the Romans "stole" the Greek gods and mythology, but in reality what is happening is a spread and leveling of "Greek" myth throughout the Mediterranean, including to Rome. But at the same time, those places are putting their own stamps on it all. "Greek" myths with strong Near Eastern roots (like the Herakles cycle, or Dionysus) get culturally "selected" at the expense of other myth clusters. Thus you can find painted "Greek" pottery with scenes of Herakles' labors all over the Hellenistic Mediterranean and beyond, being used by all sorts of different cultures to mix, pour, and consume Greek wine in a Greek way while telling drunken tales of "Greek" gods.