It's unlikely they will need to turn of power to the entire unit. Probably only a few circuits. The landlord cannot cut off power to your unit.
Your lease should detail what parts of the property you are entitled to use. If putting up this door would hinder access to parts of your unit, that would be a violation. If the renovations are occurring in a common area, the landlord is within their rights.
We tried to negotiate termination of the lease before construction began, they declined and stated we could move our things out prior to construction. Essentially they are stating we can live without a bed, couches, etc for an undetermined amount of time.
The worry about the electric being shut off is that where they are putting up this wall/door is directly across from my office where the internet is, with the only coax cable entry point to have internet serviced here.
When we rented the unit, we rented it as a unit with a really beautiful entry from the front door, with a decent sized foyer that was listed in the square footage of the unit at time of rental. The wall/door will take away our personal entry/stairs/foyer and make it a common area, which is NOT what we rented when signing the lease.
I'd send the landlord a letter stating that they would be in violation of the lease if they proceeded with the renovation. If they're still insistent that this begins before your lease term is up, you may need to speak with an attorney who handles landlord/tenant disputes.
In our lease it states they may not enter without our consent unless it is for emergency repairs/maintenance, to show the house to prospective renters, buyers, etc, and requests made by the tenant (us).
We do not lease the entire house, but we lease the entire upstairs unit including our entry through the front with a good sized foyer and staircase. By adding in a wall and door separating the stairs and our apartment, they would be turning that entry into a common area, which we would be fine with, but the layout of the apartment if they WERE to do that, would inhibit us from getting MOST of our valuable furniture out of the apartment. They are suggesting we move our things out PRIOR to our lease ending, before construction begins (in October), but our lease is not up until November 1st.
IANAL, but from what you state, they can not force you to accept the renovations and the consequences of said renovations (such as power going off during the day). At this point, it turns into a constructive eviction since you can't use the property as intended. You could sue in small claims court for that month's rent.
On that note, I would suggest you counter with a demand that they supply movers to move your furniture out and into another apartment or storage unit for the month of October. And since you can't use your furniture for the month of October, you will pay a reduced rent for October.
If they don't agree to those terms, you don't need to do anything, except document anything that happens to your stuff or your ability to use the place. And then plan to sue them in small claims court for the inability to use the apartment (constructive eviction), and also sue them for the value of your furniture that you can't move out (property damage\loss).
Feel free to explain to the LL that, since you have a valid lease until November 1st, that unless he moves your stuff and prorates your rent for October, you will just sue him in civil court if he does anything to interrupt your living conditions until November 1st. No big deal. Be polite, and know your rights.
In the end, you can't stop them from doing what they will do. But you could sue them in civil court, especially if your place is uninhabitable (due to the power and construction issues) and loss if property (if you can't get your furniture out of the apartment due to their changes).
The problem with that negotiation, is that we won't even be able to remove our bed from our apartment, so moving all of the furniture our before construction would basically leave us sleeping on the floor for an undetermined amount of time.
I see what you are saying though, I think the best course of action at this point is to make damn sure with a lawyer that these are our rights as tenants and then tell them if they want to begin construction before the end of our lease, we will sue them for what you have listed above. Thanks for the advice, we are going to get an actual lawyer involved. I would be fine to move out in October rather than November but it still leave the fact we would STILL break our lease by moving out early, but they won't negotiate any of that.
I wouldn’t normally jump to this but I think based on the landlord’s stance thus far that I would jump straight to seeing an attorney. Like another poster said, this sounds dangerously close to constructive eviction.
If the lease includes private use of the foyer/entry, you hold all the cards. You probably hold them either way honestly. They can abide by your lease and not do renovations, or they can cede to almost any demands you want regarding leaving the lease early or compensating you monetarily or otherwise.