In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I wish more people would read the articles so we could actually discuss their contents lol. Yeah the title makes this seem objectionable. The article makes it way worse:
The Republican Party fears knowledge, especially about race and history, the way that the Wicked Witch of the West feared water . . . and for the same reasons.
That’s a bingo. If you fear this sort of course it says a lot more about you as a person than anything. America did genocide and slavery and Jim Crow and many other terrible things. It’s just what happened.
All they have is a leaked syllabus. Banning a curriculum based on the name of topics is absurd. I don't think "The Gilded Age" is a good name for that time period, but I wouldn't ban a fucking textbook on that basis.
They didn't say what they objected to in the curriculum, but they heavily implied that what was being taught was inaccurate. That's an incredible statement given that the material hasn't even been released!
The only good that can come of this is that it ought to destroy the facade that DeSantis's anti-woke laws are about anything other than thoughtcrime. My concern is that that may have been the goal. If Republicans still cared enough to use dog whistles, he would've waited until the textbook was released, then found some facts in the textbook that weren't unanimously agreed to be accurate (every history textbook is going to have some information that is disputed by some experts) then banned the curriculum on that basis. The fact that he felt no need to wait indicates that his people will honestly excuse exceedingly thinly veiled bigotry.
EDIT: I saw another article that talked about this. The syllabus was 81 pages. Which I think is really important information, and it was irresponsible of this article to fail to provide such context. Still, if a state wants to ban a class, it should have to point to particular things being taught that are inaccurate, or point to some facts that must be taught that are inexplicably left out of the curriculum.
With all that being said, I do have concerns about this being an AP class. Ultimately, only relatively intelligent, relatively ambitious kids are going to take an AP class at all. Of that group, only those that are interested in black history are going to take the class. Several years down the line, you're going to have an increased degree of Republicans saying, "All those elitist Democrats believe in systemic racism!" I'm fine with these topics being introduced into public schools through the AP program, but I really hope that it'd quickly get integrated into required history classes.