OP you post in /r/SpunHornyFun and /r/HIGHANDHORNY. So while you may not do heroin you certainly post about doing meth. Something says the rest of your story isn't accurate. I suggest you cut your losses here, and clean up as your employer likely has more information than you're leading us to believe. Suing would likely expose you to a LOT more scrutiny than you want.
No I’m laying out as it is and just like any person, what I do in my private life is my business unless it directly affects my on the job performance. But I understand your point and agree. Note that I am not passing blame or disagree with employers decision. My issue is with the paper running the story 8 weeks later and using a police report of their account of events and not reaching out for my side of it. Just confused is all.
Disclose what to who? HIPAA only covers your healthcare providers sharing info without your permission; it doesn't prevent you from having to tell others your own info.
You yourself stated that you declined to report the theft to the police, so nobody had any way of knowing that. The paper ran with what they had available.
What was bullshit about the article? You aren't really clear. It sounds like the article ran with what they had, which is that you and her were in a hotel room and you OD'd on heroin, then she was charged with crimes.
"My decision to spend a wild night out with a prostitute led to me losing my job" fixed your headline for you. Actions have consequences. Perhaps you will make different decisions in future. You clearly have no clue what HIPPA is either. The police have recorded what you said happened at the time. The newspaper have reported what the police recorded. If your ex-employer could identify you from the article and the content of the article supports their belief that you have behaved in a manner amounting to gross misconduct then they can fire you. There is nobody to sue here (other than the person you claim drugged, then robbed you). Get job hunting and hope you don't need their reference!
I’m grateful to have received a few offers already. I am good at what I do . I wish she was a prostitute but it was actually someone I trusted. There may or may not be a staff member connected to a LO member of the local county. I’m sure that’s how any connection was made just don’t understand the timing of it.
Sure, but you won't win. Newspapers are allowed to publish articles on things that happened. Freedom of the press in the US and all.
Yes US. I honestly don’t do heroin, I had 700 in cash, 2 rings and a watch that she swiped. The paper ran the story based on officers speculation . And the fact they added that I admitted to doing it to myself when I was clearly incoherent. Feel violated man.