NAL. I don't think anyone can tell you what a judge is likely to do unless they've been in court with that particular judge enough times to have a sense of their style and temperament... certainly no one can tell you exactly what will happen.
The real issue is that big guys like Uber don't want to be bothered with you and will file motions to move the lawsuit to a higher court that takes it out of small claims, and into district civil court with much higher costs and requirements for trial. Are you willing to pay a $15-50k retainer with virtually no chance to recover that? Does your state have Anti-SLAPP laws that would prohibit (or deincentivize) Uber from pulling a stunt like that?
If I were you, I'd consult a local attorney who is familiar with the local laws, facts of your particular case, and the facts in the pending municipal case against Uber...
If there's pending litigation on this matter there's a chance that any cases filed after could be stayed or continued pending the results - probably not outright dismissed until there's precedent from that larger case.
Assuming you aren't doing this all by yourself, but because you say you're preparing to sue them, it likely means you don't have legal counsel yet?
Unless they have strict policy to never give in to litigation, the likelihood is, if you lawyer up and approach them, they'll likely settle it immediately for the amount you claim they owe you, because that is the cheapest option.
The flip side is, many larger corporations have a zero flexibility range here, strictly because they don't want to encourage anyone to ever sue them, no matter how at fault or innocent they are. Theory being, if you are the biggest longest lasting pains in the ass ever, even if it costs you money overall, you can become somewhat untouchable as a company to most people.
A well know insurance company employs these rules, and as such my encounter with my own situation had my lawyers tell me that they can't possibly ever take such a case on contingency if it involves this particular insurance company.
They'll run for incredibly long lenhs of time while they appeal "everything" no matter what it is, because they're intentionally wasting time. As such, they can't do it unless it's entirely privately funded. There's just not enough money in it for them.
That shouldn't stop you approaching counsel and asking what they think. You will soon learn the terrain in regards to a likely outcome. Many offer free initial consultation, and you should take them up on that. It will be far more illuminating than anything anyone here can tell you, because they'll immediately base their answer, coldly on whether or not you can win/they will get paid.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Does your city have an agency that enforces this ordinance? If so, contacting them would be a good place to start.
A lot of real world likely outcomes can be foreseen based on whether a contingency lawyer is prepared to take on your case. It's like asking a bookie the odds on who's going to win an election. They aren't basing any political leaning on it. It's real world only. It's money.