except thanks to HIMARS that had kinda been neutralized quite some time ago. Since HIMARS outranges Russian batteries. Ukraine opens up on mobniks, Russia returns fire, maybe the Ukranian artillery is damaged by a lucky shot instead of an inaccurate shell from a worn out Russian barrel, but a nearby HIMARS will counter fire and eliminate the Russian artillery anyway.
Cannon fodder only works to draw out artillery if you don't have counter fire waiting for you. Like a pawn in chess protected from capture by a knight.
HIMARS should not be used in counter artillery fire.....that's not what it's good at. Especially since your not going to hurt those systems. Your hoping to kill the operators in a counter fire mission.
At almost a million dollars a rocket I hope the UKR sticks to the soft targets the HIMARS is designed to destroy.
Statement: Conscription is for Russia to use cannon fodder to identify ukrainan artillery targets to destroy.
Response: HIMARs ensures any Russian counter battery fire on Ukrainian targets is neutralized without reprisal which makes the purpose of arty spotting cannon fodder pointless as a casualty of not just the fodder but the artillery team using them as bait.
The definition of "working" here is that russian mobik is valued far lower then a Ukrainian Heroy. Putin doesn't care if 10 untrained gopniks die in order to take out of war a single well trained and equipped soldier with experience and dedication. For russia and russians a single injured Ukrainian is worth his/her weight in gold.
Edit: just wanted to point out that u/PariahOrMartyr is correct in their assumption that Russians are fucked. They're just misguided by who's doing the fucking. The answers is: a little from column A, a little from column B.
Why gain ground when you can just keep funneling new Ukrainians into a meat grinder. Russia can take the losses, Ukraine can't.
Weather by design or not Bakhmut has become an attrition game and Russia has a lot more men it can afford to lose.
they got the fresh intake of weapons and armour from the Ukranian museums they looted. now the next wave of mobniks can march into Ukraine with Poleaxes and maces.