This is a huge deal, and I would assume due to the pressures of the recent protests. You can have all the lockdowns you want until 200 million military age men and women say "enough". I would imagine that this is an effort to avoid that happening.
So you're thinking it's still rampant, they're just caving to protesters? No snark intended in that sentence, I wouldn't be surprised if that's the case.
Definitely, I just thought they were locking people in due to it actually getting worse, not that CCP needs a reason to control every aspect of their citizens' lives.
People have been separated from their families for 3 years in many cases due to closed borders, and up until a week ago they were physically locking some inside their apartments. Power doesn't like to let go until it is forced to.
It looks like you’re a nurse so you would know better than I would, so let me know if my understanding is wrong. I have read a ridiculous amount of research because I’ve had long Covid for 2 years, but of course that does not necessarily make me knowledgeable.
It is has become endemic vs a pandemic, virus same as the more common flu which also occurs mostly on a yearly basis.
Pandemics are known to cause widespread disruption, illness and hardship as we have experienced since 2020. An endemic means a disease is spreading in a community at the normal or expected level. A pandemic begins to shift to an endemic once the disease becomes more stable and manageable.
This is not accurate - we’ve seen significant after effects from Covid that we don’t see at nearly the same scale with the flu, cold, or other endemic diseases. We’re learning more everyday, but it is not equitable to the flu or a cold from a health perspective.
Correct, my comment was pointing out the drastic difference in the likelihood of these effects occurring in Covid vs the others, sorry if that was unclear. I’ve edited to clarify. It’s significantly different, more than double the prevalence in the longitudinal studies we’ve seen so far.
3 years later and China still can't cope, very poor healthcare system, denial, and a centralized political government.
In any form of democracy all knowledge is shared and we work together to find a solution to a common issue.
If you don't have medical or scientific knowledge of diseases, are not familiar with the CDC or WHO, don't make knee jerk responses.
The whole COVID thing was considered a pandemic, it is now endemic, same as the more common flu viruses or respiratory cold.
Here is the medical science behind sinovac (Sinovac Biotech) or CoronaVac. A vaccine developed by a Chinese company, that is only about 50% effective against symptomatic COVID-19.
Although 50% effectiveness is far below the greater than 90% real-world protection of COVID-19 vaccines made with messenger RNA (mRNA), it may still be good enough to curb the disease's spread.
That level of efficacy in a clinical trial qualify for emergency use in many places and meet the World Health Organization's threshold, as well.
To estimate CoronaVac's effectiveness, the researchers focused on 2656 health workers who had taken polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests for SARS-CoV-2 infections beginning in January, with the initial rollout of the vaccine.
CoronaVac contains inactivated whole copies of SARS-CoV-2, in contrast to many other COVID-19 vaccines, including the mRNA vaccines, which just present the spike protein of the virus to the immune system.