Fraud is illegal. There doesn't have to be a government seal for someone to be committing fraud. Additionally, and separately, some of the people arrested have committed other crimes, violated other laws, like the people going to Hawaii. Whether or not their fake cards were illegal in themselves or not, they used to fake cards to break the quarantine law. But also your scheme is unlikely to work. The card suggests that the vaccine was noted by someone (obviously) and an employer or other entity can just go back to that someone. If you have reasons, talk to your doctor about whether or not they are good reasons medically, and if so, get a true exemption.
I’ve never heard of a medical exemption from the vaccine. I mean my reason is that I already had covid and have the anti bodies, and I would rather be of the last few million to get mRNA than the first, because of the side effects, especially for people who have already had a covid infection.
So how do I go about getting a written exemption equivalent to the glorified hall pass that a vaccination card is?
Exemptions are granted for things like allergies to the ingredients or you have some kind of medical condition that would prevent it.
They are rare, but for example, some cancer patients going through chemo with compromised immune systems, on a case-by-case basis they may be medically exempt for now. As for mRNA vaccines, these should win the Nobel prize, the Pulitzer, the Oscar and the Emmy. They've been worked on for more than a decade and they're just starting now to use them for HIV. If you don't want the shot, I'll take yours, I had COVID and I've been vaccinated x2 and would be x8 if I could, after having lost 1/3 of my relatives over 60. Us former patients, and those vaccinated, can still catch new variants and can still pass in on, every little bit of an extra booster helps.
Legally, you're not required to get the vaccine, obviously. Totally your choice. What you cannot do is pretend that you did, that's where the criminal issues come in.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.