Why are they having you file an 83(b) election? They doesn't make sense. It's your company -- you're not taking the stock over time.
There are still a few important steps to complete; as the company’s primary representative, it’s up to you to work with your team to complete them.
Purchases shares by making a payment for the value of their shares to the company’s bank account (stock recipients can do this with a wire transfer, a check, or some other payment mechanism). According to the Common Stock Purchase Agreements, here’s how much each founder owes:
If you're unsure if you should file your 83(b) election, perhaps because the value of your company has significantly changed prior to issuing founder stock, you should consult outside counsel or a tax advisor immediately.
We also recommend chatting with a lawyer to understand other tax and legal obligations (such as potential securities filings that may be relevant for your specific situation, as well as any requirements to register your business locally).
The 83(b) election is for when you are receiving "restricted stock," which means that you're getting shares that are subject to forfeiture/vesting (whatever you want to call it) in the future. So, for example "We're giving you 100,000 shares now, but if you leave within the first year, you have to give half of them back." If there's nothing like that for you, then an 83(b) election would be pointless.
Files an 83(b) election (very important!). Startup attorneys typically strongly recommend that founders with stock subject to vesting file an 83(b) election with the IRS to avoid potentially enormous personal tax obligations as the company’s value increases. Read more here. 83(b) elections must be filed within 30 days of the stock purchase and there is no way to file a late election, so we recommend considering the election immediately. You can download an 83(b) election template and instructions here.
You can apply for the EIN online with the IRS and get it back instantly. (Sometimes they fails and you have to fax it in, in which case you currently have to wait about 45 days.).
Keeps a record of each payment. It is important for the company to keep a record of each payment (i.e. a receipt for a wire transfer or a bank statement showing the check was deposited).
Once you've finished those steps, you and your team will have finished the process of issuing stock in \[Company\], Inc. using Stripe Atlas!
I'd apply for the EIN online, and (assuming you get it) tell these people to withdraw the other application.
The agency has already applied for EIN for us but they said that it will take a while due to the pandemic. I don't really know why they want us to file 83 (b), is that really neccesary? I just want to open a bank account for the company and have an EIN so I could raise fund through Kickstarter, I've heard that section 83 (b) has something to do with taxes so will that somehow affect the amount of money going into my bank account? That's really where most of my concerns are. Getting heavily tax on my raised fund.
If you get restricted stock and DON'T make the 83(b) election, then the IRS says "We're going to treat those shares as if you received them when they vested," which will frequently mean more taxes.
It seems like the only shares being issued are unrestricted -- there is no vesting. And, since there is no vesting, there's no reason to tell OP to file an 83(b) election.
They know what they are talking about, this is normal boilerplate. "founders with stock subject to vesting file an 83(b) election with the IRS to avoid potentially enormous personal tax obligations as the company’s value increases." - since there is no vesting stock with founders, the original poster shouldn't do it. - source, this old CPA who has done plenty of these elections.
Or at least they've worded it poorly. NOT every stock recipient needs to file an 83(b) election, since not every stock recipient is receiving restricted stock.
I suspect that the service you're using is just an automated thing -- you type in some information and it fills in forms and sends them in. It may be that, someplace deep in that system, it allows for issuing restricted stock, and you're just seeing text that applies in that situation.