Interesting question! But I would argue your initial premise is wrong. White populations in Africa are more a result of Economic and political factors then geography. This is seen in most settler colonies being in Southern Africa (ex South Africa, Rhodesia, Angola) although there are exceptions (Algeria). And the reason for the move of white populations has more to do with the Cold War and the 20th century then any earlier period.
The short answer: South Africa was the last African country to decolonize and its white population had longer ties to the land.
The long answer: Settler colonial states in Africa all had violent transitions of power or at least violence spurring on the transition of power. From Algeria to Kenya to Angola removing the white settler was a rallying cry for black liberation movements and revolutionaries. To them the project wouldn’t be completed until they were back in control.
Now let’s look at the case of South Africa specifically. South Africa has and has had the largest white population of any settler state in Africa. And on top of that many of the families there had been living there for many many generations (some going back to the 1600s). And they identified as South African- going to the UK was already highly unlikely for the English speaking whites and going to the UK or Netherlands for the Afrikaans speaking whites was impossible.
Additionally, (generally speaking) the whites living in these areas were not as attached to the land. For a family living in say Kenya for a couple generations it was preferable to move back to the UK then live under African rule. In cases where whites had stronger connections to the land in places like Zimbabwe it is worth noting that the leader there, Mugabe, made a point of trying to force whites to emigrate by seizing land and businesses.
Additionally, the black revolutionaries that ascended to government after the end of Apartheid (the ANC) also had no interest in creating a black only state, in fact that would run counter to their political messaging which won them so much support from all over the world. The ANC was a multiracial party and movement which included Indians and whites as well as blacks. And while the ANC did use violence, there was no race war or large scale local revolution inside South Africa that would have pushed race relations to the brink. Instead there was free and fair elections that opened South Africa to democracy and a multiracial society.
I hope this helps answer your question If you have any other questions or need clarification don’t hesitate to ask .
That's something for which I'd like references. The cases I know in my parents and great parents generation are still mourning the places they were forced to leave (or were till their death). Some even tried to stay after the independences but had to fly for their life. Especially for those who were born there, the attachment is not reducible to the nostalgia of their youth or of an inegal and exploitive society where they had the upper hand.
I understand your point and I should have clarified that I am making this statement in comparison to whites in South Africa. Historically and generally speaking whites did not stay long in post revolution African states. This is not to say they didn’t have strong attachment to the land, it more the land wasn’t worth fighting a long and likely fruitless war once it was clear they would ultimately lose. From my research whites generally fought hard to maintain their power and status but once the revolution is successful they leave. Rhodesia to Zimbabwe is the only case I can think of were there is a black revolution and whites stayed on in somewhat significant numbers. But even in this case their had been white flight from the country for years before the successful revolution and most that wanted to stay simply moved to friendly South Africa.
In the case of South Africa specifically, Afrikaans speaking whites were much more determined to maintain their control over their land and political control of the government. Even after the Apartheid government agreed to negotiations and eventual elections with the ANC there were elements of the government preparing to coup and start a civil war if necessary. This obviously didn’t end up happening but in my experience I have never seen a white minority government willing to go to this extent once the writing is on the wall. For more info of specifically the South African case I highly recommend Insurgency and Counterinsurgency in South Africa by Douek.
in effect saying that South Africa has a large white population today because it has long had a large white population. But why were there so many whites in South Africa for so long?
Are you asking why there were so many Whites in South Africa during its early colonial history or why so many continued to stay into the 20th and 21st centuries?
I think you’ve already addressed why so many settlers remained in the 20th and 21st centuries. So why was white immigration to South Africa in the early colonial period so high, relative to other locations in Africa, and why did settlers remain there at such levels?
This question is a bit outside my wheelhouse as I focus more on 20th century Africa but I can give it a stab.
The Cape or die Kaap to the Dutch was an important trading and resupply outpost on their way to the Dutch East Indies. The Dutch East India Trading Company (DEITC) was absolutely dominant force in the Cape, the East Indies, and in many cases the economy of the Netherlands as a whole in the 17th to early 20th century. During this earlier period (17th to mid 18th century) the DEITC needed bodies bad and they paid a good enough wage and promise of adventure that a lot of the Dutch lower class joined up and those that didn’t were snatched and pressed into service. If you survived your stint as a sailor or soldier you were dumped off at the nearest port with what little back pay you were owed. A favored port for doing this was the Cape. The logic behind this was rather sound for the DEITC: 1. It solidified their claim to the Cape 2. The men certainly preferred the Mediterranean climate to the tropical region they had just worked in 3. More bodies on the cape meant they would probably continue working on critical industries that help resupply more ships.
The men who were dumped off in the Cape had little money, most not enough to go home and even if they did it wouldn’t be enough to survive back in Holland. Instead they would push into the interior and stake their claim to the land. Despite troubles with Africans whose cattle and land they were stealing, these men were successful and actually demanded that women be brought over so they could start families. In the meantime many inter-married with Africans and their children would become the first of what are called coloureds in South Africa. Wanting to escape from being under the thumb of the DEITC and then the British after they seized the Cape pushed the Afrikaners deeper into the interior. (It is during this period they further developed their identity as Afrikaners).
Similar to the Dutch, the British imported men to run the local government, soldiers to keep it safe, and they too dumped some of their sailors there. The Mediterranean climate and promise of land also brought a number of civilians to South Africa.
What cemented the large amount of white immigrants to South Africa was the discovery of gold in the Orange Free State and the Transvaal (aka the Boer or Afrikaans states). This led to the Boer Wars which would see Britain extend its full control over what is today South Africa. And with this control large numbers of skilled and semiskilled laborers came to make their fortune mining gold. Unfortunately for them it was not like the California gold rush- there were companies set up that quickly had full control of the mining business or Iron mining companies that mearly shifted their focus to gold. An independent miner simply couldn’t compete and would work for one of these companies. Still it was good pay if hazardous work. The men who really came out on top was the not insignificant number of bureaucrats and mangagers that came to South Africa at this same time. These men were more likely to bring their families as well and created a solid middle class.
As to why they stayed- that brings us back to the 20th century. They had no reason to leave. White minority rule didn’t end in South Africa until 1994 and they all got to keep their land and business for the most part so why not stay? In other settler colonial states whites would only leave when war and revolution forced them to leave. Revolution in South Africa was certainly violent but the violence was mainly acuring on the boarders or in majority black areas (a look at South Africa’s Truth and Reconciliation Commission confirms this). Also a lot of whites were ready for a liberal democracy and had their own gripes with Apartheid (namely conscription).
Take this all together and by the 19th century there have been 3 steady waves of white immigrants to South Africa while most other colonial states are barely on the first wave, a resource that draws a lot of need for skilled and semi-skilled workers (aka white jobs), and a European climate.