This is not something new under the "current administration". It would be the same under any administration.
2) Serve in the military during a war. Operation Enduring Freedom is still ongoing and qualifies, but depending on how fast things move you might be too late already. And as a 41 year old, you may find you're too old to get in anyways.
Why are you worried NOW about this? Why is this administration any different than past ones? I’m very confused to what legal advice you’re trying to acquire here.
1) Get married to a US citizen, apply for a greencard with a waiver of inadmissibility. Supposedly this has a high chance of success, provided you don't have a criminal record.
3) If you have a family member who is a US citizen and would suffer extreme hardship if you were removed, you may be able to get out of a removal procedure and become legal. This doesn't seem to apply.
So. Fall in love with a US citizen, get married and get an immigration lawyer to help you apply for a greencard.
4 and 5 are asylum and temporary protected status, neither of which would apply to you as a Finnish citizen.
The one thing you have going for you is that you entered with inspection, and just overstayed your visa. You’re absolutely eligible to be deported, and likely have some some criminal liability for tax evasion if you weren’t reporting your income using a TIN.
Normally, working without documentation in the US makes you ineligible to adjust status while in the US. However, since you have more than a year of unlawful presence, leaving the US means you will have an automatic 10 year ban on reentry applied when you leave the country. That 10 year ban is waiverable only in extreme situations, so it’s best to avoid it.
Option 2 isn’t a thing either. You generally need to at least be a permanent resident to join the US military. There was the short lived MAVNI program for a while, but those selectees got caught in a huge limbo and most never actually got the chance to serve. There are some visas available for translators who operated with US forces, but OPs certainly not going to be eligible for those.
The one exception to the adjustment of status inadmissibility is if you are the immediate relative of a US citizen. Then the overstay and working without authorization would not be a bar to you getting a green card. That would require you marrying a US citizen or being the parent of one, and waiting until they are over age 21 to petition for you. If you had entered without inspection, then you would not even have that option.
You would need proof of your original lawful eatery (prior visa and I-94 would be best). This was likely before electronic I-94s, so getting a copy if you’ve lost it may be difficult.