We don't care why it took you so long to realize this and it really doesn't matter whether he's gay or all the different reasons you think he's gay. Get a divorce attorney and file for divorce. Tell him to communicate though your attorney and then block his calls and texts. This is no different than any other marriage with irreconcilable differences.
Almost all the facts here are irrelevant. Most of this is speculation for /r/relationship_advice. Please shrink your post down to the relevant details: you're in province, Canada, your ex is American, you want a divorce.
You likely do not qualify for an annulment. You don't identify your province so we cannot tell you the requirements.
Legally, contact your provincial law society for a referral to a divorce lawyer. You need to meet your province's requirements for the divorce, including any cooling off period. The divorce lawyer can handle filing and communication so you don't have to speak to your ex.
Can you expand on why we wouldn’t qualify for an annulment? We never consummated the marriage and he claims he is incapable of having sex with me.
Because non-consummation is a he-says/she-says issue, for one. Here are the other (much more concrete) reasons for annulment:
Separately from the legal divorce, you can ask your clergy person if religious annulment is possible separate from the legal divorce.
Get an attorney, get a standard divorce. If it means something to you religiously, talk to your clergy after the divorce is finalized to see if they will grant an annulment. Then meditate / get guidance on why you chose to jump onto a marriage sight without knowing the person you purported to love and agreed be bound to so that you don't repeat the mistake in the future.
Best advice, in that case, is to find a new divorce attorney. Tell the new attorney simply, "I want to divorce my husband. Tell me what to sign to make that happen.".
Thank you for clarifying. Would it count as fraud considering he lied to me from the get-go about his sexuality?
He had no financial gain but he did have personal gain. He is from a community and family where it is expected that he is married by the time he is 30. Being gay or bi is not accepted in his family. he was under pressure from his family to get married and settle down, so by lying to me and getting me to marry him he got his family to back off and stop interfering in his personal life. He also gets social status in his community by being married to me.
Because he lied to me from the day I started getting to know him. I thought I knew him but when I moved in he turned into a different person. He even lied about the smallest things such as his likes and dislikes for seemingly no reason. He did express sexual interest in me before we got married but that changed as soon as we got married. The more time I spent with him the more I realized that most of what he had told me about himself, about his lifestyle was a lie. This is not a “religious upset” I’m upset because I feel conned by him.