In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
What the US needs is a consistent "billionaire tax", drawn up by Congress, so it applies to all billionaires nationwide.
The problem is this should be a federal level tax, not a state level. Driving every rich person out of California and to Texas would not help Californians overall. This type of tax needs to come from the federal level so that all states are on a level playing field.
Billionaire David Tepper (who had resided in NJ) just picked up and moved to Florida. Which represented a problem for NJ, since almost half of NJ's state budget comes from taxing its residents. So Tepper's move out of NJ left a hole of about $100 million in NJ's budget.
>In New Jersey, personal income taxes account for about 40% of state revenue. Compounding the issue (and the instability) even further is the fact that less than 1% of taxpayers contribute about a third of those personal income tax collections. Haines adds that Tepper’s unexpected departure could mean a “one percent forecasting error in the income-tax estimate or a $140 million gap.
Some billionaires may still leave the country for more "tax-friendly" countries I suppose (if they want to set up base in a tax haven like Switzerland or something), but it wouldn't be as simple anymore as moving from state to state within the US to avoid the taxman. Not to mention the US taxes its citizens worldwide based on their holding US citizenship, so to sever ties completely, the billionaires would have to renounce their US citizenship too.
Also consider the US will assess a hefty Exit Tax as a deterrent for those that want to give up citizenship.
They treat this as if you sold all your assets the day before you renounced including deferred income.