It seems u/Swagiken has already done an excellent job of answering this question, but I thought I'd chip in with a different view. I don't have an honours thesis in the subject, so I'm open to correction, but I'll offer what I have and hope it proves an interesting counterpoint. My main issue with their answer is that I feel they overstate the Christian presence within Arabia at the time of Muhammad, and underplay the paganism of the communities particularly in the middle of the peninsula, where Muhammad lived. I also feel he places the date of Islam's definition as its own entity far too late.
There is influence from both Judaism and Christianity on the formation of Arabic belief pre-Muhammad. Direct Christian presence was restricted to the fringes of the peninsula; in the north the Byzantine and Persian fronts were separated by desert, with some client Arab tribes but no contact further into Arabia. There is some Christian presence which comes up from the south from Ethiopia via Yemen, and Persian-leaning communities of Nestorian Christians in eastern Arabia, but it isn't clear that any of this reached the Hejaz, the isolated western desert where Muhammad lived. It does seem, however, that Islam may be the result of a gradual shift within Arabia towards monotheism. There are mentions of Arabic monotheists, with a fourth-century al-Rahman 'the merciful' seen in inscriptions in the south. Quranic tradition criticises other prophetic figures across Arabia, demonstrating their existence, and there is almost a 'substrate' of Syriac Christian language and belief within the Quran - even the term Quran itself is Aramaic in origin, and parts of the Quran seem equally legible when perceived as pure Arabic as they do when read as a Syriac hybrid. Some say, as u/iox007 has pointed out, that Muhammad was illiterate, while others claim he knew the Pentateuch (the first five books of the Bible which are also foundational to Jewish scripture) and others still say he knew the whole Bible.
That said, tales from Muhammad's life are hard to verify. There is no evidence for an Arabic Bible at this time, so concrete Christian thought must have been limited, particularly considering how isolated the Hejaz was. There have been suggestions that Mecca was a bustling trading hub with links to the rest of Arabia and beyond, and that Muhammad's activities as a trader may have brought him as far north as Damascus and into direct contact with an Arian Christian monk. There is no suggestion in the archaeological record that Mecca was anything more than a regional trading hub for the local pastoralists to sell their goods. The traders there organised faires to celebrate their own deities, so clearly were more in touch with paganism than u/Swagiken has suggested, and there is an impression within the Islamic sources that pre-Islamic Arabia was a land of heathens having forgotten the lessons of Abraham.
There was, however, greater influence from Rabbinic Judaism. C. F. Robinson writes that Muhammad's flight to Medina was in part because Mecca was a real pagan hotbed and hostile to his radical ideas, whereas Medina had a large Jewish community who shaped his philosophy while his religious beliefs were crystallising. Most of the Quran was revealed in Medina. and some Messianic Jews even fought with Muhammad against the Byzantines. The Constitution of Medina, the document binding Muhammad's followers together during his exile there, allows for the membership of Jews within the ummah, the community of the faithful. Even at this early point, their religious separation from Muslims was established, and after the Battle of Uhud Muhammad seems to become less fond of Jews, but this separation was still blurry, largely because the Constitution was as much a political and military document as it was a religious one. That difficulty of definition applies to much early Islamic history - the overlap between political, cultural and religious community is so strong it's almost impossible to extract one from the others.
There is, however, an identity that is distinctly Islamic, even from the beginning. Fred Donner says in Early Islamic Conquests that there was a religious duty to expand outside Arabia, demonstrated by the emphasis on jihad within the Constitution of Medina and in Muhammad's teachings which would go on to become the Quran itself, which was not written down definitively until later. A large part of this expansionism came from a belief in righteous conquest being rewarded in the afterlife. 'Holy war' was not a concept that had developed thus far, but was beginning to be used by Heraclius for instance in his campaigns against Persia, and this may have bled into Arabia and indirectly influenced Muhammad. One of the defining factors of early Islam is an incredible zeal for religious warfare, and a desire to expand the Islamic state over the infidels. This rhetoric would not be applicable unless Muslims believed themselves different to those they were fighting. The Muslims knew they were different to the people they conquered under the four Rashidun caliphs after Muhammad's death; they went so far as to live in separate camps outside pre-existing cities, which would go on to form their own cities like Basra and Kufa. Muhammad sent letters to the Byzantine emperor Heraclius, to the Persian Shah, and to the Abyssinian king asking them to convert - again, this would not be necessary for the Byzantines or Abyssinians if Muhammad saw himself as a Christian.
After Muhammad's death, the Islamic state survived largely because of its shared religious views and sense of community, continuing conquest with the beliefs of jihad. Caliph Umar before the end of the seventh century was already building mosques in conquered cities as a sign of further separation between Dar al-Islam and Dar al-Harb, or the House of Islam, and the Rest. The pesky entanglement between 'Arab' and 'Muslim' only becomes stronger in the coming years, with the Umayyads (particularly Abd al-Malik) making Islam a definitively Arabic religion and emphasising the role of the Arabic language.
Arabia before Muhammad was a melting pot, with Jews, Christians on the fringes, and native Arabic monotheists and polytheists in abundance. Muhammad lived in an area largely free of concrete Christian thought, with its main influences coming indirectly as currents moving through the world of Arabic monotheism. He took more influence from Judaism than from Christianity in his work, and Jews provided a strong presence in the early ummah to define Islam against. From the beginning they showed themselves to know they were different from the Jews and Christians around them, at the very least as a political movement but certainly as a religious movement by the end of the seventh century, perhaps even during the life of Muhammad himself.
Robinson, C. F., ‘The Rise of Islam, 600-705,’ in Robinson (ed.) New Cambridge History of Islam (Cambridge, 2010) vol.1.
Do we know of any specific figures or names of these Messianic Jews? I‘ve been trying to figure out who some of these people are through the Islamic Tradition but they‘re either silent on the matter or assume a homogenous Islamic army fighting against the Byzantines.
The biggest Jewish supporter of Muhammad seems to have been Rabbi Mukhayriq of Medina, who broke the sabbath to fight with Muhammad not against the Byzantines but against Arabic polytheists at Uhud. His recognition of Muhammad as a prophet is claimed in Muhammad ibn Ishaq's biography of Muhammad, and when he died in battle Muhammad called him "the best of Jews". For the most part it seems Muslim-Jewish relations had soured by the time of their explosion out of Arabia, but there were likely still some Jews in the Muslim armies as early Muslims were surprisingly pragmatic when it came to tolerance of other religions. The army definitely seems more homogenous by that point though, you're right.
I just wanted to tack on that many of the proponents of the revisionist school in the 70s and 80s have backed off of their most iconoclast hypotheses. Patricia Crone has actually said that her main thesis in Hagarism was wrong.