We have sufficient data, thanks to the Recruit Mortality Registry started in 1977, to give a fairly definitive answer as to how many recruits died on the obstacle course from gunfire in the time period from 1977-2001 across all the armed forces: one.
I'll explain the circumstances of what happened (it wasn't from standing up) but first, the general statistics: there were 276 deaths overall, with 77 being considered "traumatic": suicide, injury, or homicide. Recruits were under close supervision and lacked access to motor vehicles, so the main accident-killer amongst the armed forces (vehicle accidents) was not represented. Of "unintentional injuries" the categories given were overdose, fall, explosion, gunshot, electrocution, asphyxiation, close combat.
(Incidentally, there was likely a bit of undercounting, but that is because heart attacks and other physical ailments were sometimes categorized as "natural deaths". A 1994 led to "training-related" deaths being more inclusive of physical problems that should have been caught before putting recruits under stressor that set them off.).
This is what killed the Private. It was not, in any sense at all, the recruit's fault, and the army recommended future training sessions include a second M-60 to be used if the first one fails rather than trying to fix the gun mid-training.
In close combat, the two deaths involved Marines who were boxing in a combat training area, including one whose death was described as:
This is reinforced in an Army guide which goes into detail about training that happened in 1990 in August -- that is, roughly the time of Jarhead. There were no fatalities or even injuries, but they found "muzzle orientation" in particular to be poor, that is, the recruits were often unaware of the direction their weapons were pointing, and there were "several accidental discharges" and recruits often forgot to check if their weapons were safe. (In response, the guide notes that "in future exercises, individuals will be pulled and reported to the brigade.
The obstacle course gunshot fatality -- Pvt. Dericcio White, 21, of Flint, Mich. -- happened in 1994 at Fort Sill in Oklahoma, during a night training exercise on a "squad-platoon offensive tactics course". Recruits carried M-16s and crawled under barbed wire and live fire from an M-60 machine gun.
The machine gun was set to fire "about 8 feet high" with safety mechanisms to prevent it from firing downwards. During the exercise, the gun jammed, and while the sergeant tried to clear the jam, he took it off its mount and it fired.
The one area I have a problem with the statistics is that the data only seems to cover basic training. More strenuous courses, live fire excecises, and other training with real weapons would happen after basic.
The situation portrayed in Jarhead would have taken place at MOS school, or even a special school like sniper training school￼￼.
The above paper mentions the 1994 death which was also covered by two articles in The Oklahoman and .
Is there any data that you have tract or read about that covers military training that outside of the basic training program?￼.
It would seem like the Army would be incentivized to mis report a death that was the direct result of training practices. Is there any indication of that sort of thing in this document that you or other researchers found or suspect?
Scoville, S. L., Gardner, J. W., & Potter, R. N. (2004). Traumatic deaths during U.S. Armed Forces basic training, 1977–2001. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 26(3), 194–204. doi:10.1016/j.amepre.2003.11.001.