Attorney here. You need a new lawyer asap. Your attorney has a fiduciary duty to zealously represent you and protect your interests. They are not doing that.
Possibly; I would certainly hope so. However, a family law attorney who specializes in these types of cases would be best equipped to help OP develop and execute an action plan. Since this isn't my practice area and I'm not sure what state OP is in, I don't feel comfortable doing more than affirming OP's need for a new attorney, and providing general recommendations as to where she might find new counsel.
If you can, hire an attorney that is board certified in family law by your state's bar association, or at least go for a firm that focuses exclusively in divorce and custody matters.
You are an amazing parent and, your kid is so lucky to have your unconditional protection and advocacy. Best of luck in facing this challenge, and I hope your new attorney helps you reach a quick resolution, so that you and your child can heal and move on with living your lives. 🫂♥️.
1.) Your attorney may explain things to your satisfaction, and you decide you don't need to switch lawyers.
Generally speaking, as long as a parent still has parental rights and is making progress, the courts will generally try to move to at least more visitation. But the first step would not be unrestricted in-person visits, it would generally be third party supervised visits - either through a trusted family member or a service that he pays for. And the fact your attorney doesn't seem to have told you this is very worrying. That said, every locality and court is different on what steps they take. It's theoretically possible your attorney knows certain fights are unwinnable in that court and is trying to avoid them. It's also possible your attorney doesn't know which fights are winnable.
While everyone else right to say "go get a new lawyer", keep in mind that you're going to sink several hours into just getting your new lawyer up to speed. I would first ask your attorney to schedule a 30 minute/1 hour meeting to go over strategy and answer questions, and take notes in that meeting. This serves two points:
2.) Your attorney explains things well enough so that when you get a new lawyer, you can get them up to speed faster, because you've recently taken notes from your attorney. It will also give you a better starting point when asking questions from your new lawyer.