Hello everyone! We're rolling out selections of our newest selection of historical Snoos and their Snoographies every Sunday. Check out , , , and , and as always, a shoutout to our wonderful artist, /u/akau.
Sitt al-Mulk (359/970-414/1023) was born when the Fatimid dynasty was still a regional north African power. She was five years old when al-Aziz conquered Egypt and moved the dynastic capital—and his family—to now-Cairo. Unfortunately, the major sources for her life are chronicles written long after her death, so personal motivations and private details are scant. Nevertheless, it seems that even from adolescence, Sitt al-Mulk claimed (and was granted by her father) significance independence. She had her own palace in the royal capital, and like other Fatimid women (and medieval upper-class Muslim women in general), she controlled much of her own wealth. Thus, despite being formally excluded from politics, she needed to be intimately aware of them in order to maximize her own benefit.
Her own wealth, furthermore, made her a backroom power player as a formidable sponsor for ambitious courtiers. The one power move Sitt al-Mulk refused to make was an “advantageous” marriage. Whether or not this was initially her father’s will instead of hers, it remains true that she never married—even when she became one of the most powerful women in the history of Egypt.
Princesses in fantasy tales get rescued; princesses in history get married. Right? Tunisian-born medieval princess Sitt al-Mulk had no interest in either. Daughter to one Fatimid caliph, sister to another, she survived a snakepit of a royal court that proved deadly even to the conniving, vaguely evil eunuch; tiptoed quietly around her brother after he may or may not have come to believe he was a god; and finished her royal career by restoring women’s rights, legalizing music, and rescuing the Egyptian economy.
Before that could happen, though, she had to deal with the aforementioned vaguely evil eunuch and a possibly-divine brother.
Sitt al-Mulk’s half-brother al-Hakim was eleven in 996 when he inherited the throne and his aforementioned creepy adviser Barjawan inherited the power behind the throne. He made the first play to turn Sitt al-Mulk’s personal military guard against her, supposedly placing her under house arrest. However, she spent the four years of Barjawan’s shadow reign earning her brother’s loyalty through the time-honored strategy of giving him a lot of money. So when Barjawan came to a predictably untimely end in 1000, al-Hakim was old enough to rule independently and pliable enough for Sitt al-Mulk to function as almost a co-ruler.
We have to keep in mind that later chroniclers were firmly opposed to al-Hakim for reasons that will become apparently momentarily, so it’s possible that their tendency to attribute all of al-Hakim’s good early decisions to his sister’s influence is a little bit exaggerated. Nevertheless, Sitt al-Mulk’s influence extended well beyond the court. In the earliest years of the eleventh CE century, she leveraged her political allies in Syria to uncover an international conspiracy and extortion scheme among al-Hakim’s close advisers. The massive increase in her own coffers during this decade, too, points to her economic savvy that helped Egypt prosper once and would do so again.
In the 1010s, al-Hakim’s politics—if, the chroniclers would say, you could even call them that—changed drastically. He chose cousins as heirs, disinherited his own children, and tried to assassinate his sons and their mothers. He outlawed music and public wine consumption, seized property and wealth belonging to Cairo’s Jewish and Coptic Christian population, and banned women from any kind of public presence whatsoever. The radical new direction seems to be related to a new religious movement—eventually known as the Ismaili sect called the Druze—who believed al-Hakim was either God or a messiah, and more to the point, al-Hakim going overboard with their propaganda.
Strictly speaking, her brother “disappeared”; and just strictly, she condemned the assassination and swiftly found “conspirators” to uncover and execute. Was she eliminating those who could expose what she’d done? Or was she eliminating future rivals to be the power behind the throne of the new underage caliph-designate? Either way, at this point, Sitt al-Mulk’s biography shifts from a political thriller to the story of an extremely competent queen.
Sitt al-Mulk’s political skills and economic power are readily apparent in her survival of the next six or seven years. Her brother made the second attempt to turn her personal military guard against her, perhaps through violence and definitely through espionage. Yet Sitt al-Mulk managed to smuggle her brother’s son and wife—targeted for assassination—into her personal palace, and keep them protected.
Modern scholars have offered different assessments for the significance of Sitt al-Mulk’s de facto reign. Yaacov Lev initially pointed to the grander view. In the tumultuous aftermath of al-Hakim’s feverish assault on Cairene civic life and his assassination, she stabilized affairs in the royal palace and kept the government together for a smooth transition to the next real caliph.
More recently, Delia Cortese and Simonetta Calderini have taken the lead in stressing Sitt al-Mulk’s actual actions as ruler. They point out her near-immediate reversal of her brother’s highly unpopular economic and political decisions. Sitt al-Mulk initiated a reform of the tax code to try to restore the empire’s finances. She helped broker a grumbling peace between high-ranking military and bureaucratic officials in the palace. She fought lingering corruption by firing (or executing) some of her brother’s favored “employees.”.
Sitt al-Mulk’s successes at reform were by no means limited to the government, however. She stabilized interreligious relations in Cairo by overseeing the return of stolen property to the city’s Christians and Jews. She restored women’s rights, permitted the consumption of wine, and legalized the playing of music in public. Or to borrow the words of Stargate SG-1’s Jack O’Neill describing ancient Egyptian deity Hathor: Sitt al-Mulk proved herself the goddess of sex, drugs, and rock ‘n roll.