So should I confront my employer or just go ahead and file the SS8? My boss aggressively confronted an excoworker when the worker asked for the overtime pay and about employees being 1099 and not w2.
Business owner here. You could be a non-exempt employee based on what you have presented--the key point is what you mean by "protocols." The (admittedly vague) criteria for distinguishing contractor from employee does not have a duration element. Likewise, profanity, mean, or manipulative are not a criteria either way.
If they provide training on how to provide treatment--indicates employee. As a contractor the assumption is that you are competent to perform the required functions. If they provide training on how to use their IT system to record an encounter, it does not distinguish one way or another because knowledge of their system is not something a contractor could be reasonably expected to know.
For example, assuming you are in a licensed medical profession, if all the owner said (or had in the contract) you are to perform functions consistent with applicable regulations and laws during X business hours that could indicate contractor. If the owner provides guidance on how you are to perform those functions (e.g. I want you to perform medical procedure X this way), that could suggest employee. This can get complicated because if you are contractor but are covered by their malpractice insurance, the guidance on how to perform the functions may be a requirement of the insurance provider.
Having set hours for a contractor is not unusual for a clinic setting because the business needs to ensure coverage during hours of operation, so scheduling contractors is reasonable. If you were performing a function that is independent of the hours of operation (for example, your job is to review encounter records for content prior to being sent to billing) the business typically establishes a performance metric (review within 24 hours) for a contractor while an employee would be expected to work specified hours.
If you are a medical technician that has to work under the supervision of a RN or MD, that does not necessarily mean employee because the supervision is a normal and accepted part of that profession (and likely is a statutory requirement). If they limit your normal functions (e.g. tell an MD that they cannot prescribe medications or tell an RN to only perform COVID testing) that is not distinguishing either way because there could be a legitimate business reason for the limitation.
With all that said, how does your specific situation align with the examples? Is the owner being prescriptive with how you should be performing your functions in a manner that is unnecessary for a competent professional in your field? If the answer is yes, you may have grounds for a claiming you are mischaracterized.