We still portray St. Nicholas as a bishop (which he was), in the same manner as we do any other saint. His feast day being December 6 as opposed to being conflated with the Nativity.
TL;DR: The legend of Santa Claus, by that specific name (or at least a close variant on it) was very likely already known in New York City and the surrounding area before the Revolutionary War. It was certainly known in that area of the United States no later than the first couple decades of the 1800s. With the publication of A Visit From St. Nicholas (a.k.a. "Twas the Night Before Christmas") in 1823, many of the more well-known elements of the legend were established, and it quickly spread throughout the country as the poem's republication became an annual event. Probably by the 1830s, and certainly no later than the 1850s, was the legend of Santa Claus, by that name, "part of mainstream American culture".
In New York state and northern New Jersey, the legend of Santa Claus was very probably, if not certainly, already circulating before the year 1800. The name "Santa Claus" is a corruption of the Dutch Sinterklaas, literally meaning Saint Klaas—or Claes, or Klaus, or Claus. They're all Dutch shortenings of the given name Nicholas, as the English language typically spells it. The Dutch language at that time did have the equivalent Nikolas, and other variants, although the shortened Claes was probably the most commonly-found spelling of the name among the Dutch-speaking American-born New Yorkers of the colonial period.
The earliest known instance of anything resembling the "Santa Claus" variant comes from the December 26, 1773, edition of New York's Rivinon's Gazette newspaper, which included an article that contained this passage:
Since the name and legend were orally communicated in the earliest years, the name Santa Claus was spelled in many different ways for many decades after, but we do have some clues that New Yorkers were familiar with the legend, using the particular Santa Claus name, or, at least, a close approximation.
In the January 25, 1808, edition of the Salmagundi literary magazine, founded and edited by Washinon Irving, the name Santa Claus is found again, in a form closer to its modern day form:
The following year, Irving published his wildly popular Knickerbocker's History of New York, which was mostly a tongue-in-cheek legendary history of New York City. While he doesn't use the term "Santa Claus" in it, there are nonetheless many passages that relate legends of St. Nicholas, who he identified as a patron saint of the city. This included gift-giving by the saint as he flied through the air, throwing presents down New York City residents' chimneys.
A year later, John Pintard, who had founded the New-York Historical Society, commissioned the writing of a poem and an accompanying illustration of "Sancte Claus", which was published and sold as a in New York City. While the illustration of this version of Santa Claus looks nothing like the modern version, one of the illustrations shows that his association with gift-giving to children in their stockings hung up by the chimney was already established.
Going back to that 1773 reference, while it's very possible both Irving's depiction in his Knickerbocker's History and Pintard's depictioned in the commissioned poem may have added new elements to the legend, the legend did not originate with either one of them. The legend of St. Nicholas giving gifts on St. Nicholas Day was already known in the Netherlands going back to the 1600s, at least (there are paintings of these celebrations, including stockings by the chimney). From this, the legend migrated from St. Nicholas Day in early December to Christmas at the same time that Dutch-speaking New Yorkers had begun inter-marrying with English-speaking New Yorkers, the latter who did not have nearly as strong a tradition of gift-giving on St. Nicholas Day. Thus, Christmas celebrations became a common ground in these New York and New Jersey families, particularly as Dutch New Yorkers left the Dutch-language Reformed Church for English-speaking churches of their spouses (mostly Presbyterians, but also Anglican, Quaker, and others).
On January 21, 1819, Pintard wrote a letter to his adult daughter that would suggest that his intent with his 1810 broadside was to preserve a tradition he'd celebrated during his pre-Revolutionary War New York youth:
With the Dutch minority ever-dwindling in the post-war period, he and others expressed concern that the earlier culture would be lost. This is part of what had inspired him to establish the New-York Historical Society. This was part of Washinon Irving's intent, too, in writing Knickerbocker's History. While the book had many passages written with a wink, it was very much a love letter to "Old New York", when the "Dutch character" of the city was still obvious. Though Irving was born at the very end of the war, in his youth, he, too, would have experienced at least the end of it. And he was very much interested in the tales he heard of the "old times" before he was born.
I'll answer both questions in turn (scroll down to the second post for the TL;DR of the second question).
The 1847 book Kriss Kringle's Christmas Tree, published in Philadelphia, used the name "Santa Klaus" to refer to the gift-giver in .
Anyway, there are other surviving references to the Santa Claus legend in New York in the 1810s and early 1820s. But what really put Santa Claus on the American map was the publication of the poem A Visit From St. Nicholas, otherwise known as "Twas the Night Before Christmas". That poem was first published right after Christmas in 1823, and was an immediate hit. It was re-published in newspapers year after year afterward, not just in upstate New York where it originated, but, by the end of the decade, it had become an annual tradition in newspapers throughout the United States. Broadsides and books containing the poem were soon published, too.
By the 1860s, Thomas Nast had begun to illustrate his series of famous Santa Claus depictions in the widely-read magazine Harper's Weekly. By then, the name "Santa Claus" was usually given without any further explanation needed. In fact, even earlier, in the late 1840s, the illustrated magazine Brother Jonathan had done the same thing, and it had also been a widely-read, if short-lived magazine, though it's probably not as well-remembered because the illustrations often departed from the description given in "Twas the Night Before Christmas". Nast, on the other hand, mostly stuck to the description in that popular legend.
While the poem doesn't ever refer to St. Nicholas as "Santa Claus", it cemented much of the popular legend that still survives - eight flying reindeer, traveling up and down the chimney, and St. Nicholas being a jolly, fat, gift-giver with a white beard dressed in fur (or, later, more generically, warm winter clothes). And it also cemented Christmas as the day of Santa's annual visit, rather than St. Nicholas Day or New Year's Day.
With the immense popularity and proliferation of "Twas the Night Before Christmas" and the legend it contained, it's pretty safe to say that, by the 1830s, Santa Claus was "part of mainstream American culture" throughout the country, and not just in New York and New Jersey. It certainly had occurred no later than the 1840s or 50s, because, by then, references to "Santa Claus" (by that name) outside of New York and New Jersey had become fairly common. As just a few examples:
Among postcards, some examples include postmarked 1904, dated circa 1907, and dated circa 1910. The New York Public Library has.
Probably more widely consumed from around that same time is L. Frank Baum's 1902 origin story The Life and Adventures of Santa Claus. This book was published just two years after Baum's immensely popular The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, and while this Santa origin story has been enduring, being reprinted many, many times, its backstory hasn't exactly become part of the popular Santa Claus legend.
The December 19, 1845, edition of The New Era newspaper in Portsmouth, Virginia, ran saying that, as "Christmas approaches" "old Santa Claus himself" is "ready to dispense joy and comfort on every hand".
The 1853 book Christmas Holidays at Chestnut Hill, published in Boston, included a poem entitled which tells the story of some children discovering that their parents are playing the gift-giving role of Santa.
TL;DR: Santa Claus's popular image, including his familiar red-and-white attire, had been solidified well before Coca-Cola began to use Santa in promotional material beginning in 1933. Coca-Cola may have had a role in keeping the image going, but the image didn't really need any help at that point. Before 1910, Santa's red-and-white clothing had already been called the "regulation Santa Claus suit".
Santa Claus's red and white get-up predated the Coca-Cola ad campaign of the 1930s by at least several decades. I don't know if it's a "weird coincidence" because I don't know the history of Coca-Cola's branding—for all I know, Coca-Cola chose their colors to associate their brand with Christmas. Or not. I don't know. Maybe someone else can fill you in on that history. But certainly, Coca-Cola didn't invent the red-and-white attire that Santa Claus is commonly depicted as wearing.
I wrote just last year, so this will mostly be a repeat of that, with some further information, which hopefully illustrates how well-known the red-and-white-clad Santa Claus was by the time of the 1930s Coca-Cola ad campaign:
But Nast still usually portrayed Santa wearing a wreath around his head instead of a stocking cap, and as originally published, his illustrations were not full color, so the color of his clothes was indeterminable. It was only over the course of the end of the 1800s that Santa got his stocking cap, and his clothes were depicted as distinctly red with white trim.