First, save the ad that still lists those windows. Second, go talk to a real estate lawyer. You have significant and provable damages, but only a lawyer in your state will be able to get you started.
I'm an attorney but not your attorney. This is not legal advice. You should seek advice from an attorney licensed in your state. I'm also a licensed (inactive now) real estate broker.
I'm always a big proponent of trying to solve issues before filing a lawsuit. You can write or call the Broker in Charge (BIC) of the selling agents real estate company. Regular agents are just that, agents. The Broker is ultimately responsible for the actions of all agents under them. You can call the company and ask to speak to the BIC, or for their email.
This is it, OP. How long ago did you buy the home? Florida will have a statute of limitations that sets a maximum limit on how much time you have to pursue this, and you must initiate any legal proceeding before that time runs out.
The lawyer you hire will probably file a lawsuit against both the agent/broker and the seller since both are ultimately responsible.
Let them know the impact windows were a major factor in your decision. You wanted to talk to him or her first and try to resolve this issue. You don't have to threaten a lawsuit and don't accuse the agent of lying (it is probably just an honest mistake). Tell them you are asking for the cost to install impact windows. They will probably work with you (after looking into the situation themselves). If not, then let them know you will be pursuing legal action.
You may want to consider bringing this up to your agent first. Your agents broker may be willing to contact the sellers broker on your behalf with the info I posted above.
Get two or three quotes on having impact windows installed. I know nothing about those, but others here seem to think the $11k you were quoted is extremely low.
10K seems really cheap. Last week I signed a deal for hurricane shutters for my house for $11K as most of the impact window quotes were north of 50K.