In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
All it takes is a cursory look at the daily headlines to see how women and girls have been and are being denied access to healthcare and yes, punished for seeking an abortion, for chrissakes.
Except claiming that Dems claims that "women wouldn’t be able to get health care and would be punished" as a result of overturning Roe v Wade is itself a demonstrable outright lie.
Rightwing extremists like Musgrave are incapable/unwilling to tell the factual truth even if their very lives depended on their doing so.
Just like the anti-abortion extremists ongoing Big Lie that they are "pro-life". That's like claiming Donald Trump is an honest man (30,000+ documented lies and counting).
When Trump ran in 2016 and mentioned that women having abortions should be punished, he was forced to back pedal by fellow Republicans.
Why shouldn't they be punished? If abortion is murder, women should be held to the same standard as anyone who does or at least pays for murder. Unless they actually know that abortion is indeed not a murder and they're full of shit.
One big anti choicer, who's I believe director of March for Life said that their goal isn't to punish women for abortions, but to help them instead. Not something you usually hear about murderers.
Wait, seriously, they're openly doing it already? Where? My wife and I are a month out from our first successful pregnancy completely thanks to IVF, the notion of others not having that chance is infuriating.
I'm waiting for another Alexandra DeSanctis article about how the birth control pill and IUDs are forms of abortion and how the pro-life movement needs to raise awareness about that. They truly think it's a winning message. We should be thankful that so many of them have learned nothing.