Efforts were also made for 're-education' of some of the POWs, with the belief that putting them through special indoctrination courses would mean that after the war, they could be returned home and be a seed for turning Japan into a peaceful, democratic state by “impress[ing] on the minds of the Japanese prisoners of war what the attitude of a citizen of the United States is toward life and government and to create an appreciation of American principles and traditions".
That doesn't mean they never did surrender (it is worth noting Japanese POWs were often unconscious or severely injured when captured, or else sailors picked up from a sunken ship), but while the Western Allies captured over 1,000,000 POWs in the European conflict, Japanese POWs can be counted in the thousands. A mere 35,000 or so Japanese soldiers were captured prior to the end of the war (not counting, of course, the mass surrenders in the final days. The USSR alone captured 600,000 Japanese soldiers then), and of those, a mere 5,000 or so Japanese POWs were transported to the United States for internment, in comparison to over 400,000 German and Italian prisoners housed in the US. The experience of the latter is covered , and I would note that the material conditions of the camps weren't that different for Japanese POWs than they were for German, but their experience itself would have been quite different.
Japanese prisoners of war were a rarity during World War II. Several factors play into this, including the reluctance to surrender which manifested itself in suicidal resistance, or simple suicide itself, and the racial animus that characterized the Pacific conflict, aptly referred to as a 'War Without Mercy' by Dower, and did see a considerable reluctance to accept surrender in the field, and many explicit cases of violations of the laws of war in that regard. It was a dark, self-fulfilling cycle in many ways, with Japanese reluctance to surrender only further fueling American disinterest in accepting it, sometimes out of racial hatred, and others as an assumption it was a trick. For many of those who did surrender, it was clear that it was less their commitment to Senjinkun that made them desire to keep fighting, but fear of treatment by the Allies, assuming they would be treated similarly to how the Japanese treated their own prisoners, and American killings only reinforced that more, despite treatment after capture being quite unlike expectation.
As relates to the intelligence gathering factor, almost all of the Japanese POWs had undergone extensive interrogations even before their arrival in the US, and then brought to the US for longer processing. Camp Tracy, CA was one of the major centers for this, with about half of all Japanese POWs spending at least some of their captivity there for interrogation before being forwarded onto to another camp for internment. For the most part, the process involved the interrogation officers - a mix of white Japanese linguists and Nisei - slowly working to build trust with the prisoners, and slowly picking apart inconsistencies over multiple sessions to try and pull out the truth. One irony is that, due to the 'no surrender' philosophy drilled into them, Japanese soldiers had absolutely no instruction in resisting interrogation, formal or informal, and were often considered quite pliable. In many cases, what worked best in winning the trust of the prisoners was simply the feeling of reasonably decent, fair treatment, given what they had been led to expect. Surveys of interrogations show that 84% of Japanese prisoners had expected that they would be tortured and killed after capture, and were quite surprised when instead they found themselves being fed, as prisoners, better than they had as soldiers and sailors.
As with any such operation, some prisoners never opened up, others proved to have nothing of value, but many too turned out valuable information. Treating their capture as a literal death at home, for some the consolation and understanding of their captors saw them turn entirely cooperative. One POW put it rather bluntly that:
In part, this was logistical. German and Italian prisoners were brought in large numbers because there were large numbers of them. That is sort of tautological, to be sure, but the US had the space and facilities to house them in a way that met (mostly) the requirements under the laws of war, and put those to use. In the Pacific, where POWs were of much smaller number, and the distance to take them much greater, it was easier to turn them over to more proximate allies, and as a result, the majority of Japanese POWs, regardless of who captured them, fell under the eye of Australia. Most of the prisoners who the United States transported back home were brought there because it was believed they could provide some sort of value with regards to intelligence (not that German and Italian POWs weren't often interrogated, but it wouldn't be such a universal experience in depth), or in the case of some naval prisoners, because they were captured closer to an American port where the ship that recovered them next arrived. The first Japanese POW, Kazuo Sakamaki, who survived a crash at Pearl Harbor, would spend nine lonely months as the sole Japanese prisoner in the United States. Later joined by others, Sakamaki would, by virtue of his early arrival, become the camp spokesman at McCoy in Wisconsin.
Similarly one camp official recalled later a group who was so converted that they "wished to fight back to Japan side by side with Allied soldier". A bugging operation was also used to eavesdrop on the POWs when they thought they were alone, but success there was considered minimal with chatter mostly inconsequential.
Outside of the interrogation facilities though, Japanese POWs were generally kept away from the West Coast, as there was seen to be a particular racial vehemence there, so they were dispersed mostly through the Midwest and South, mostly Texas, Wisconsin, Iowa, and Louisiana, although in all areas there was generally a hatred that simply wasn't seen with the German or Italian prisoners, even coming from the guards. For the prisoners themselves, many also felt a deep shame at their situation which likewise was not seen as widely in their fellow Axis compatriots. The avoidance of surrender, and the shame of it was quite strong, and many POWs had never wanted to be in that state, with a very high number captured while knocked out, severely wounded, or otherwise Hors de combat. A very high proportion of Japanese prisoners were sailors who were picked up from a sunken ship or submarine. It was a common belief that even though they had not sought it, being captured made them traitors. Despite the fact that they were allowed to do so - and German/Italian POWs made use of it - few chose to communicate home via the Red Cross, as they considered it better that their families consider them dead rather than disgraced, the Japanese government often sending a death notice even when the soldier had been captured (information which would have been forwarded via the Red Cross).
One result of these interrogations, and understanding of how Japanese assumptions about their fate were a major impediment to surrender, possibly even greater than actual devotion to duty, were attempts later in the war to improve the likelihood of surrender, both by encouraging American troops to be receptive to the possibility surrenders were genuine and that their reluctance only ensured fighting would last longer, as well leaflet campaigns targeting Japanese soldiers in the field to try and encourage them of good treatment if they surrendered.
In some cases, POWs who had experienced that treatment (those remaining in theater though, not sent to the USA) were allowed to return to Japanese lines to encourage surrender, and more generally POWs who had proved most amenable after capture were used to help fine-tune such messages by finding flaws in the American logic which wouldn't appeal to the Japanese sensibilities, or else fixing poor phrasing and word choices, such as with the 'Surrender Passes" which were dropped in Japanese held-areas, insisting on changing the wording from "I Surrender" to "I Cease Resistance", which was more acceptable. For many later POWs, they reported that these campaigns had been part of what made them do so, and the efforts generally were seen as effective in fomenting defeatist attitudes within the Japanese ranks.
Utilization of Japanese POWs for labor was considerably limited compared to German and Italians, not only due to their numbers, but also racism and a belief that they were less motivated to work than the Germans or Italians due to their feelings of shame. Despite many being farmers and fishermen in their former lives, work outside the camps was deemed risky as people would react with hostility, so they were generally employed on military grounds in roles such as road construction and salvage, as well as roles in camp administration.
Attitudes of prisoners within the camps ranged wildly. Some made the best of their lot, others remained staunch in their attempt to resist in the mind, at least. Factions in the camps often arose, sometimes along those lines, but also other internal division. Rivalry between the Navy and Army - the former much more numerous than the latter - was perhaps to be expected, and generally prisoners who arrived later looked down on those captured earlier in the war, since at least they had fought longer before suffering the shame of capture.
This effort was primarily organized by John Emmerson, an employee of the State Department, Lt. Col. Boude C. Moore, who had been born in Japan to missionaries and lived there for several decades, and Dr. Charles.
Is that because it's outside your field of expertise or just because the question was focused on the USA? If the latter, I would welcome information on Australia, or any other country.