You don't "respectfully decline" a subpoena. If you're subpoenaed, you've been ordered by a court to appear.
You could speak with an attorney about quashing that subpoena. Your story wouldn't seem to make that likely enough to be worth the cost of the attorney.
You also might try to speak with the court about your concerns 1-3 and see if the court is willing to allow your testimony by telephone or video, or allow you to reschedule. This sounds like a case where your physical presence may be important.
A subpoena is an order to appear and give testimony, the like. If I were you, I would go to the Court in person tomorrow morning. Making a phone call to the Court the morning of is seriously a bad idea.
If the prosecutor really needs you, or they feel like throwing the book at you, they can get you held in Contempt of Court if you don't show up. Which would result in you being arrested and going to jail — way worse for COVID concerns and the like.
This is an unfortunate situation to be in, however, the law is the law — and you have no interest in getting yourself in jail. Having to spend perhaps an entire morning or if necessary, the entire day in Court is a safer approach than getting potentially arrested and put in jail.
NY doesn't elevate juvenile car thieves to adult criminal court, especially these days, after the court initiative. If you're being summoned by a grand jury, your testimony is probably needed to link the stolen car to a serious violent crime, not the actual car theft.
Which was it: the subpoena came in the mail or was slipped under your door ? 12 hours is very probably insufficient notice that will allow you to reschedule your appearance.
You can ask to delay your appearance, and you can take all the COVID infection prevention measures you wish in court. Your circumstances with your wife and child make you very sympathetic and will likely be considered when rescheduling your appearance.
There are very limited exceptions for work schedule issues, mainly when you are critical caretaker. Sickness or childcare are more likely. They may arrange telepresence if this is a indictment instead of a trial.