In 1998, a Roman quarry was discovered near the English town of Swindon. For centuries, the local Portland limestone had been cut and shaped into blocks for the needs of this quiet corner of Roman Britannia. And for centuries, heavy four-wheel carts had rattled in and out of the works, scoring the stone. By the time the quarry was abandoned, two sets of well-defined ruts had formed. One set - on the left, looking out from the quarry - was much deeper than the other. This, the archaeologists realized, reflected the traffic pattern on the quarry road. Year after year, carts loaded with stone had exited by the left-hand ruts, and returned empty on the other side.
The traffic pattern in the Swindon quarry is sometimes cited as evidence that the Romans habitually drove on the left. It is, of course, nothing so definitive. We can say with bedrock certainty (so to speak) that carts at the Swindon quarry kept to the left. But we cannot assume that this was a universal rule, or that pedestrian traffic followed a similar pattern.
Typically, wheeled traffic kept to the center of a Roman road. Often, in fact, it had no choice. The best evidence, as so often, comes from Pompeii, where the roads of a bustling Roman town have been preserved more or less intact. As I discuss in , vehicular traffic was limited on the streets of Roman cities. It was also carefully channeled. In Pompeii, at least, most of the streets were one-way, and relieved only by occasional turn-offs and parking spots (to judge from the municipal laws of a Roman town in Spain, there were hefty fines for blocking traffic). Other cities were provided with wider, two-lane streets, whose traffic must have been guided by regulation, or at least convention. But there is, to my knowledge, no evidence for a universal right- or left-hand rule.
Pedestrian traffic seems to have been fairly anarchic. Although there must have been local conventions for walking through narrow areas, these rules were unwritten, or are at least not preserved. Some large buildings, above all the great imperial bath complexes of Rome, were designed for continuous circulation in both directions. Here again, however, we have no indications of a general rule for foot traffic keeping to one side or the other.
In the absence of definitive evidence, in short, we should probably assume that local custom governed pedestrian behavior everywhere, and that the practice of keeping to the left - if it was indeed the general rule on Roman roads - was not a universal guide for walking patterns.
The more I read about Romans the more I realize that while being a terrible tragedy, Pompeii was at the same time an unbelievable bequest to the future generations. Seems to me like half the knowledge about Rome comes from it.
Herculaneum seems like a better preserved town to me. Haven't been to either, but they're definitely on my list. But I think Pompeii had more citizens trapped there.
Yes, you read about that in discussions of medieval roads, and it's certainly possible that Roman-era riders were guided by the same concern. But I don't know of any ancient evidence that makes the connection explicit.
I feel you, but for now, for me, of the bath house is accurate, the quarry is accurate, the medieval era information is accurate, that's enough for me. Obviously it could be wrong, but I'm happy with going with that for now.
Thanks for the great answer! And apt username I have to say. My question was a stab in the dark anyway, just trying to see if this bit of mosaic could hint at a societal norm of the past.
Things don't generally change easily. Like how train track widths were influenced by Roman carts. Which makes me wonder why cars, in most of the world, drive on the right, which is opposite to medieval Europe if what you're saying is right, so that's definitely curious.
Being careful is a fair point, but this post you linked falls very short from debunking what I said.
That article doesn't debunk anything I've said. The closest so far is that the American south did not follow the same convention, and only adopted it after it lost the war, but that isn't to say the north didn't adopt theirs from the UK, and honestly, for my point, whatever America does doesn't matter. If they're using railway widths that were that gauge because of roman chariots in england, my point still stands.