If you don't want to trust the expert who is morally and ethically obliged to provide you the best possible defense that you are paying, you should retain a different attorney. You sure as shit shouldn't be second guessing them on Reddit.
Ouch. Thanks. I was hoping maybe someone was familiar with WM stuff? My lawyer also has other cases, and it seems a bit of a butthole thing to assume he has nothing other than my case on his mind.
Hey so I’m decently familiar with the Walmart stuff and the in-store conduct of the LP isn’t all that questionable. Please note, none of my comments are questioning your innocence/guilt, I’m just going off of what I know.
You said you were going to ask an associate if you could park your cart, that’s normal. Issue is that you were taking the cart with you. If that were to happen in my area, not only would LP stop you but regular associates would as well. It’s not really something we see everyday and usually when someone forgets their card they leave the cart and go ask or they call someone over. That way there’s no question of what you’re doing.
Next, the judge said that using the register gun instead of swiping for everything was “odd”. It is. Whenever I see someone do that I watch them, hard. It’s probably the 1 self-checkout red flag. It’s a lot easier to keep track of your items when you swipe so if someone doesn’t do that we watch to make sure they get everything. If someone purposefully uses the scan gun for everything it’s usually sketchy. It’s always good practice to just swipe everything one-by-one. If you have multiples, see if an associate can do it all at once and only use the scan gun if the object is large/heavy.
They only looked at what you missed and not what you over-scanned. Yea that’s normal, even if they all cost the same. Fact of the matter is, something was missed and they’re paid to catch the people that do that.
LP stopping you in self-checkout instead of the front doors makes sense (them lying about it in court does not). It’s easier to catch the person in the store, get their explanation etc. if they wait for the doors that would confirm the crime but there’s a greater possibility of the person just booking it and getting away. The LP I know typically stop people before they leave the self-checkout area or between self-checkout and the front doors.
Sorry this is long but I hope it helps with understand what happened at the store level. Anything else I’ll see if I can answer.
Scanning- I got in the habit if using the gun thingy after an employee to me to do it that way. My husband typically works out if town, so I would go grocery shopping the night before he was heading back and everyone was asleep. It was usually the same couple employees, and after a few times, they told me to do it that way so it wouldn't set off the scan error thing.
Cart- i was still in the checkout area, looking at the employees that stand at the outside of it (or were that day). I had planned on putting the cart to the backside of the register there at the opening.
I wondered this too- if the timing had an impact on them charging me. It happened right as things were getting shut down for COVID. Another thing the LPO said was they would probably let me pay and go. His manager, well im assuming, evidentally said no. I wondered if LP has a quota and the lock downs affecting the number of opportunities and time people could come in and be caught affect their.
Yea I guess next time for the cart, if there is a next time, I’d leave the cart at the checkout. There’s no assumption of stealing that way. They may question why you’re leaving the cart there but they don’t automatically go to “they’re stealing”.
Honestly surprised that any employee would tell you to scan everything with the gun. I’m not questioning if they did, I’m just surprised. Literally (no exaggeration) every self-checkout associate that I know watches closer when someone does that. If the scan error goes of from swiping, we fix it because that’s our job. It’s annoying but it helps to prevent these moments.
Not letting you see the video is normal. LP associates are typically the only people in the store that see those videos. Regular associates won’t get a look, managers typically don’t (or don’t care enough to) and they definitely won’t give it to a customer that they are accusing of stealing. They have no obligation (legal or not) to give it to you and it’s likely in the store policy.
It does help. Especially with the video, and the over scanned items being ignored. I guess I was expecting the store to have some kind of standard to avoid lawsuits or something? I dunno.
Don’t know about lawsuit protocol or quotas, they probably have a lawsuit plan but doubt they have a quota. We’ve had plenty of complaints about our LP for following too closely, checking receipts and racial profiling. Thing is, a lawsuit is unlikely unless, like this case, the person is actually arrested. When that does happen though there is usually clear evidence of stealing so again a lawsuit is unlikely. As for quotas, strong doubt, it’s more likely that they have a “limit” on stolen merchandise. So instead of wanting to catch a certain number of people, they want to limit the amount of lost money. Still, I doubt that would change how they reacted with you. Our LP can be pretty aggressive at times where no stealing has occurred. They stop the person from leaving or making excuses and if they were wrong, and can be clearly proven wrong, they can always apologize later. They rather be aggressive and make a mistake than be lenient and let a thief go.
Yeh thing with LP is they don’t deal with over-scanning and accidental under-scanning stuff, at least where I am. If they suspect purposeful under-scanning they will watch you and approach when they feel fit. If they think the under-scanning is an accident they usually ask us to ask you if we can see the receipt. This allows the customer to fix the mistake and doesn’t automatically accuse the person of stealing. For over-scanning, the customer usually find the mistake right away and call for help or, very rarely, an associate will walk by and notice it.