The boar's tusk helmet is the only one, in a tacked-on bit that was inserted into the epic. That's why it's well known. There's tons of material that doesn't match contemporary Greece, such as the extreme rarity of iron and the lack of writing, but it can all be read as false archaism.
False archaism is a specific kind of anachronism. It's when you want your story to seem old, so you stick in random old elements regardless of whether they have anything to do with the setting. The result is a hodge-podge. False archaisms aren't records of a bygone era, they're there to give an atmosphere, a flavour of archaic-ness. Some well known examples are the woad in Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves and Braveheart (supposedly set ca. 1190 and 1297, making the woad at least a thousand years out of place), or references to Roman gods in King Lear (supposedly set in pre-Roman Britain).
In the case of the rarity of iron, iron was just starting to see widespread use in 1200 BCE, and Greeks of Homer's time were aware that iron smelting was difficult and a comparatively recent technology. So Homer depicts iron as a rare, prized metal. It's a prestige item. At one point Achilles makes a hunk of unrefined pig-iron a prize in an athletic contest (Iliad 23.826-835). Except iron was never a prestige item. Even in Achilles' description of the iron, he outlines uses for it as follows:
This is not a prestige item! We have a mismatch between the iron's supposed value and its actual function, and that's a dead giveaway that we're looking at a case of false archaism.
Does it sound like I’m suggesting we should be looking for false archaism behind every bush in Homer? If so, that’s good, because that's exactly the message I'm trying to send.
This applies to many, many aspects of Homer. The Cyclopes in Odyssey 9 sound a little like Neolithic hunter-gatherers, but their society is designed as something lacking all characteristics of contemporary Greek culture, not a description of characteristics that are present. Hence, false archaism. The same goes for the relationship between gift-exchange and trade: gift-exchange is supposedly a prehistoric counterpart to 7th century BCE trade, but the Odyssey depicts trade and gift-exchange going on alongside each other. The use of chariots in the Iliad, as a 'taxi service' for infantry, is an archaic elements (chariots) injected into a contemporary military practice (the use of mounted infantry on horses, not chariots).
There are only two other elements of the Iliad where we can be certain they originated in a Bronze Age context.
This is typical of how Homer depicts old things. There's a flavour of archaism (long ago, people weren't able to produce iron as easily as they can nowadays), but no context: it's all out of place.
The position of basileus sounds less like a king and more like a 'big man'? May well be false archaism.
1. There are references to a handful of towns which were abandoned at the time the Iliad was composed and not resettled until later, and one, the Boeotian town of Eutreus (as it appears in Linear B: TH Ft 140) or Eutresis (Iliad 2.502), had been abandoned around 1200 BCE. That's the most archaic case of a reference to an abandoned settlement.
In the case of the boar's tusk helmet, it's best to adopt the same approach. We're not looking at a Mycenaean artefact in its proper historical context, we're looking at an archaic element injected into a story to make the story seem old. In the past some scholars have tried to make similar claims about Aias' shield, claiming that it's a Mycenaean tower shield, except it obviously isn't: it's most simply read as a 7th century round aspis, and its unusualness is the fact that Aias is so strong that he can wield a gigantic aspis that reaches from his chin to his feet (Van Wees covers this in his piece in Greece & Rome 1994).
But anax, too, is false archaism: the word anax isn't a fact about Agamemnon that had been remembered for centuries, it's almost certainly a borrowing from Adrestus, anax of Argos in the Thebaid (and that would also be how the confusion with Argos arose).
Note: I borrowed some examples and language from , which talks about many of them in much greater detail.
The overall upshot depends on how you want to swing it. On the one hand, you can emphasise that Homer genuinely does stick in some elements that are genuinely archaic. On the other hand, you can emphasise that they're always wildly misrepresented. Homer isn't representing Bronze Age Greece or even 10th century Greece, he's depicting 8th-7th century Greece drenched in false archaism; but even false archaism has something archaic about it.
Can we be certain whether we are dealing with a later poet(s) who inserted these false archaisms to make the poem seem "old timey" or we are dealing with a folk poetic tradition where knowledge about things drifted and as the poetry evolved, certain things were presented in a confused, out-of-place way? The question is a matter of agency: later artists doing what artists always do or folk tradition drifting over the centuries. Thanks for your thoughts.
2. There's one word that gets used in a sense that hadn’t existed since the Bronze Age, anax 'king' (Mycenaean wa-na-ka), which gets used regularly for the Greek leader Agamemnon (king of either Argos or Mycenae depending on which bit of the Iliad you’re looking at).
In the cases where there's a solid reason to see an archaism appearing specifically because of its archaic flavour -- the things I mentioned like iron, Cyclopes supposedly a primitive society, chariots as a taxi-service -- I think there's a pretty good reason to see them as insertions. There's no point making an iron bar an athletic prize unless you are aware that it was once rare, but you're unaware that it was never a prestige item. That looks to me like a clear case of an insertion.
It's just that I don't like defaulting to the 'genuine archaism' take, when there's so much that looks like insertions.
The other elements that I listed as more speculative -- writing, the meaning of basileus, hoplites, sung narrative poetry -- could certainly be like the situation you describe, in principle. The boar's tusk helmet in the original question would also be a good candidate.
The boar's tusk helmet is a real difficulty. It appears in the least archaic bit of the Iliad: it's clearly not a bit of poetry that was preserved since the Bronze Age. But it isn't either-or, is it: it would be going too far to say it's a memory of the Bronze Age, because it's a comparatively late piece of poetry, but equally it doesn't seem right to treat it as a false archaism when it genuinely is archaic. Finding the right language to use in a case like that is tricky.