If there was truly no pay increase, and you derived no benefit from signing the new employment agreement, the non-compete would not be enforceable. A lot depends on what state you’re in and other factors, but seems overly broad and possibly unenforceable on that basis too. Practically, you should see if your employer has a practice of trying to enforce these clauses (some do but many don’t). Good luck.
Yeah. Have your attorney take a quick look. It’s very difficult (and costly) to try to enforce noncompete clauses, 99% chance you have nothing to worry about.
Noncompete clauses are generally unenforceable, not saying the employer couldn’t “try”. What’s your location and, if different, the jurisdiction for this contract you’re showing?
Illinois does permit non-compete agreements for employees making at least $13/hour at the present time (though this will change for new agreements from January 1st 2022 when the recent amendments to the Illinois Freedom to Work Act come into force). However, like most states, they require such agreements to be reasonable in scope and duration and the restrictions they impose to be necessary to protect the employer's legitimate business interests. A non-compete with a "worldwide" geographic limitation is unlikely to be enforced as written. While Illinois courts do have the option of modifying such agreements to make their terms reasonable, the courts have historically been reluctant to do so when an employer has deliberately drafted an agreement with clearly unreasonable or overly broad terms, such as in . As such, it is possible that this agreement could be struck down by the courts in its entirety due to the obviously unreasonable geographic limitation. However, that is not guaranteed; the courts still do have the option to modify the agreement, so it is still possible they might choose to exercise that option, and if the modified terms would restrict you from starting your practice wherever it happens to be located, the court might enforce that modified agreement against you. Your best bet is to consult with your lawyer and listen to their advice regarding this agreement and its enforceability.