While the scale of Native American slavery never reached the heights of race-based African slavery, Native American slavery was a pervasive, consistent practice from the beginning of contact until the nineteenth century. French, English, and Spanish colonizers systematically enslaved thousands of Native North Americans. From the beginning of contact, Spanish colonizers abducted Native North Americans to use as interpreters and laborers, and to sell for profit. Native slavery, specifically against the Fox nation, was pervasive in New France. The American colonies were not immune. Gallay, in The Indian Slave Trade, very conservatively suggests 30,000-50,000 Amerindians were captured directly by the British, or by allied Native Americans for sale to the British, and enslaved before 1715. Carolina exported more slaves than it imported before 1715. This number does not include those who died as a result of hostilities related to the slave trade, those displaced by the endemic warfare, or those who died as a result of infection and malnutrition common to refugee populations the world over. Simply put, the Indian slave trade caused havoc throughout the Southeast, and continued wherever and whenever leaders lacked the will or means to enforce anti-slavery laws.
1600's (Colonial America) — limited Native Slavery in the British Empire. African Slavery slowly replaces white servitude in the South, Indian Wars.
1700's (Colonial/Early America) — Indian Wars, such as the French and Indian War (1750's). The Revolutionary War (1776) and the Constitution (1789) mark the beginning of the United States. Upper-class colonists build their wealth upon property in two forms, African slavery and land from Indian conquest. Slavery is essential to the Southern plantation class, but not the Northern business class or small farmers. It is phased out in the Northern states after the Revolution.
1800's (Early/Industrial America) — Slavery is now a firmly Southern institution, with New York being the last to abolish it in the 1820's. Still, most early presidents belonged to the plantation class. George Washinon: from Virginia, owns several hundred slaves, wins the Northwest Indian War while president. Thomas Jefferson: from Virginia, owns several hundred slaves, fuels expansionism with the Louisiana Purchase. James Madison: from Virginia, owns 100 slaves, fights the War of 1812 against the British and the Indians. Here, future presidents Andrew Jackson and William Henry Harrison distinguish themselves battling Indians. Under James Monroe, Andrew Jackson invades Florida...etc. Later, you would see Northern presidents who were also sympathetic to slavery, called "doughfaces.".
The same year Washinon became president, you saw the invention of the cotton gin. Now 1 person could clean by hand what used to take 10 people an entire month. Since cotton production was now 100 times more productive, it spread rapidly, and kept doubling in size decade after decade into the 1800's. "King Cotton" fostered booming trade with Northern merchants and British factories. This sort of industrialized factory labor also started growing in the North. This was now an international system designed to maximize profit. The apologetic slaveholders of the tobacco age (Washinon, Jefferson) gave way to the aggressive proslavery advocates of the cotton age, (Jackson, Calhoun, etc.).