This question gets to the heart of current debates across the broader field of History. I caveat that I write this all from my perspective as someone who studies modern political rhetoric, most recently in post-communist Central Europe.
Historians receive all sorts of training about how to address sources, regardless of whether they're supposedly propaganda or not. Traditional analytical questions often form the base of any historian's initial examination of a document. Who wrote it? When did they write it? Who was their audience?... and similar. These questions are crucial for establishing some basic facts about the document, and also for establishing what you may not know. For example, let's say you see a political poster in the archives but don't know if it was for the 1992 or 1994 election. Your interpretation may well be different depending on that reality, but it also could be relatively similar. In other words, even from the starting point, we run into problems with basic facts about the document.
However, basic facts don't necessarily tell a story. We have to ask questions like "Why did this person write this?" and "What are they not saying, or saying only subtly?" These are difficult questions to answer, even for a well-read historian who knows the subject matter very well to begin with. Finding a purely objective answer is nearly impossible; some historians will argue that it is truly impossible, and that the search for objectivity is worthless.
Others disagree, and say that objectivity can be a relative pursuit; they argue that we can and should accept the answer that is the most accurate compared to all potential answers [1]. This is understandably a matter of great contention.
Ultimately, regardless of your position on objectivity in history, you do need to do some digging, and you'll need your analytical questions to get there.
May I add one question, which is often forgotten, especially from people without history-related training: Why did this specific source survive over time?
In my field of political rhetoric, arguably everything is propaganda. It's almost easier to deal with your question of "truth," because a historian like myself presumes that most sources have some pretty clear agenda. As such, you can't rely on any one source for a baseline narrative, and to draw out any sort of "truth," you need to combine sources, even if you're just caveating and contextualizing the rambling diatribe of a retired politician.