In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
However, I agree with you in the US it's definitely a huge factor and it should be addressed. But it can't be only gun control.
Guns are a serious problem in America. I understand the whole "having a gun empowers me" point of view, but with power comes responsibility. Gun ownership is in dire need of better laws.
it's just the price the rest of us have to pay for gun owners to keep up their hobby. Think about how frequent stories of these mass shootings are a shot in the arm to mom and pop gun stores.
Sadly it's not just guns. Other countries have a lot of guns per too and it doesn't correlate there.
Switzerland, I believe Serbia and Canada also have guns. Not to the level of the US of course, they're far ahead of everyone in that respect. However their gun deaths are through the roof proportionally, which means it's not just a gun issue.
I'm as anti-gun as can be, but to address the violence problem in the US you need to address all of it, simply banning guns for instance would definitely help a lot, but I'm increasingly convinced it's far from being enough.
I agree with your first part, i think more than simply banning guns there needs to be a cultural shift from being "ok" people die as long as it's not you/yours/your property, to respecting human lives and others. And given Trump's popularity over the past 6 years, it's clear there's a good amount of americans who have zero compassion and empathy. These people will find a way to murder if it's "convenient" for them, even without guns.
Also agree with the second part, that was never in question. Its just to illustrate that some countries/cultures can and will live alongside guns without it being on the news just about everyday.
There're 88 guns per 100 people in the US. 45 guns per 100 people in Switzerland. So about twice as many guns in the US, right? Now count the number of gun violence in both countries. The correlation isn't there, there isn't half as much gun violence in the US compared to CH. It's several times that. Which cannot only be explained by "they have more guns".