It's almost certain this person (who was your tenant) has long exceeded the statute of limitations to recover their personal property. You did your due diligence in sending them a letter to reclaim the property. If they chose not to, it's their problem.
Finally: make sure that other family know not to let this person in or give them a key. If you have well-meaning relatives who want to help, good idea to clarify what's going on.
Contact the police non-emergency line if the person has threatened to forcibly enter the home for belongings that are not there. Then protect your property. Cameras or a Ring-style doorbell might be a good investment to make sure they don't come onto the property. If they cause any damage, you can present the recordings to the police. Make sure you've removed all hidden keys and checked that locks on windows and doors are secure. You might want to rekey the locks if this person has access to a key.
NAL but POST certified/State certified Inv. - in GA we have what's called a "legally established right to residency" when someone stays for an extended period of time that becomes their residence and they'd have to be evicted or issued a dispossesory writ. However it sounds like this person, of their own volition, left after being told orally (perfectly legal in GA) that it was time to go. They left (eviction not required) and left their belongings (abandoned property w/30 benchmark) and then told you never to contact them (Do not contact request). Seems pretty hold-harmless to me, even on the civil side the preponderance of evidence is in your favor, especially if they never paid what was owed. The OCGA uses kinda antiquated language but these are the code sections you need;.
Just noticed that "threatening to come back and force their way back into the home." bit - In GA that's Burglary and a forcible felony - OCGA 16-3-21 takes effect and 16-3-23 kicks in.
(1) The entry is made or attempted in a violent and tumultuous manner" (sounds like force their way in in order to commit a felony).