You're an American citizen. No idea what happens in Saudi Arabia but once you are in the United States, as an adult, nobody has custody of you. So:
3. No idea what the police in Saudi Arabia will do. Once you get back to the states you can order a new SS card and a copy of your birth certificate.
If you plan to attend college, normally they require you to include parental income info until you are 24, bit there are ways to get around that in the event that you are no longer dealing with your parents. However, make sure you go into a financial aid office in person to ask about it. Many times, financial aid offices will use student workers for phone lines, and they may not have all the info to help you that a staff member would have.
Know that you do not have to contact your parents to tell them you are not returning. However, if you do, check if the state you are located in is a single party recording state. If it is, record the call without telling them. Also, have someone in the room with you as moral support if nothing else because they will most likely try to guilt you in any way possible. Having someone with you won't stop this, bit having that support could be critical in helping you hold it together.
Hi, thank you so much for your kind reply. I do have my own passport, I do have money for the ticket & I will be out of here safely, just was curious if anything could happen once I told them i wasn’t coming back.
Check your credit report regularly in case they try to do anything shady to sabotage you being able to live on your own. This can be done for free annually by going to.
Social services will be great if you need Medicaid, food stamps, and/or housing assistance to get out on your own. If you go to college, some housing assistance programs have offerings for special housing targeted to students, though what services are available can vary widely by state, county, and city.
Consider seeking out help from a vocational rehabilitation office near you. They can help you with job training, job hunting, getting access to free therapy that can be helpful even if you just need someone outside the situation to vent to, and they can help you with navigating getting into school if you choose to go back to school.
On any medical and educational stuff, typically FERPA and HIPPA stop those places from giving out any info on you. However, particularly with medical stuff, it is very common for people to list a parent or family member as their emergency contact and/or someone permitted to access info. Contact any such places where your parents, or family members who may communicate info to your parents, may be listed and request that they be banned from accessing info. This will help limit their access to info on you that you may not want them accessing.
As long as you don't go back over, they cannot force you to return. In the US, you are considered an adult. I would highly advise against ever going back because I have seen too many horror stories where people went back and got killed, held captive, sold off to someone else, etc.
There are also probably some other groups out there that can advise you on precautions you can take to further protect yourself based on your unique circumstances.
Don't tell you your parents anything until after you are in the US. And, I would never set foot in Saudi Arabia again.
Are you a dual citizen? There are some anecdotes about Saudi parents forcibly removing their kids from the US. If you have dual citizenship, there's nothing the US will likely be able to do about it if that happens. If you are a dual citizen, once you are safely in the US, look into renouncing your Saudi citizenship (if that's even possible).
Hi thank you for your concern, I am a woman and i am in saudi arabia, i’ve been slowly gaining trust enough to take said vacation for two weeks where they presume i’d be staying with my close friend.
Thank you so much for your concerns and comment and feedback, this person is most definitely someone i’ve met in person before & have been dating for a few years now and his family is fully aware of my situation and what’s going on. again thank you so much.
Thank you for your comment, and thank you for the reply. I do have a passport and money and a full plan figured out, just was curious about what would happen when i got there.
Thank you so much, your last comment will be taken into great consideration as well, I’ve been to the US consultant here once to renew my american passport, how would i go about contacting them about my situation?
You can also go to each of the 3 main credit bureaus and request to have your credit frozen if you aren't needing a credit check run or needing to sign up for a line of credit for the time being. This will also help protect you financially.