We, in fact, have a text about a well-to-do Roman aristocratic woman from Carthage converting to Christianity in the late 2nd century: The Passions of Perpetua and Felicity, a first-person narrative apparently written by Perpetua about her time in prison and martyrdom for refusing to rescind her Christian faith. We unfortunately do not have any text about Vibia Perpetua's life before her martyrdom, and her husband is curiously absent from the text, despite her being described as newly-married and having a young son she is still nursing. This could be caused by a number of things: he could have truly abandoned her and not visited her in prison, leaving her to the mob; he could have been away or recently died (although that is unlikely or she would've been identified as a widow); he could have been edited out by later scribes who wanted to emphasize her as a woman of God (the earliest manuscript we have is from the 10th century, so there was plenty of time for the text to be edited in this manner); or he could have been a prisoner with her, as some have suggested Saturus is her husband, but again his presence edited out.
From this account, converting to Christianity does not necessarily seem like something they are embarrassed about, as the father comes to the public forum for her trial and does not seem ashamed, but this could be the desperate acts of a grieving man. The official also does not seem to think that this is a shameful thing- Romans had lots of gods and they always welcomed more, after all- his biggest concern is that she offer a sacrifice for the emperors and also respect their state religion, in addition to her own. It could be a source of embarrassment to be consorting with slaves, as she was, but that isn't acknowledged in this text, as there is a great focus on breaking "worldly" familial ties (including ceasing nursing her own infant son and giving him to her family to care for) and focussing on the kinship of the Christian community and the world to come.
We can perhaps then look to her family for an example of how 2nd century pagan Romans would have felt about someone close to them converting to Christianity. Her family, and particularly her father, visit her while she is imprisoned begging her to rescind her beliefs and trying to grant her a pardon. The Roman officials too at her trial beg her to rescind and have pity on her grieving family, however when she refuses, she is sentenced to death.
There is evidence that this affected the family's social standing, however, as the father is beaten during the trial, something that his status as a Roman man should protect him from, and the family definitely wants her to reconsider her decision. Though whether that's because it is an embarrassment to the family or because they know it may be a danger to her, it's difficult to say. Using this text is clearly problematic for a number of reasons, particularly because, as this is a religious text, it is not necessarily intending to give a clear and accurate narrative of events, but instead is more intent on Perpetua's spiritual journey and dreams.
I think it's also important to note that by the 2nd century in the Roman Empire, sine manu marriage was more common than cum manu marriage, which meant that a bride stayed under the household and patria potestas (power of the father or head of household) of her own father, rather than the husband's. Looking for a husband's view then may be less important than looking at her father's.
"there is a great focus on breaking "worldly" familial ties (including ceasing nursing her own infant son and giving him to her family to care for) and focussing on the kinship of the Christian community and the world to come.".
See esp. Heffernan, Thomas J. The Passion of Perpetua and Felicity (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2012), 60-78.
Great question We've reached the limits of my knowledge about early church literature so I can't answer this but I hope some more learned early church scholars wander by and have an answer for you.
More importantly, a Latin-speaking Christian named Tertullian mentions the text and the martyrdom of the two women in his treatise On the Soul (De Anima), which was probably written before 210AD.
Edit: It should also be noted that the Martyrdom of Perpetua and Felicitas is more likely a very early third century document. Both Heffernan and - if I correctly recall - Sara Parvis suggest around 203AD.
Thank you for adding this! I don't focus much on ecclesiastical texts and wasn't aware that Tertullian (potentially) wrote about them so your comment is a great addition.