Wait for the papers to be served to you then review them with an attorney. You don’t have to sign them on her timeline, and shouldn’t.
But if the papers have been filed with the court, make sure you consult an attorney ASAP because you will only have a limited amount of time to respond. In Virginia, you need to file an answer and counterclaim within 21 days after service.
I am a lawyer out of Ohio and have practiced family law. Those papers she wants you to sign divide up your entire life. The thing is, you have no idea if they divide everything fairly or not.
If the parties can’t agree, then one of them needs to file complaint for divorce. Both parties will propose how the property should be divided and after much deliberation and fighting, one of two things will happen:
You at the very least need time to review them but you should consult with an attorney to make sure they are fair. There are laws that determine how property should be divided up fairly but you can always agree to deviate from said laws. You don’t know what those papers are doing. So do not sign!
If she doesn't, let her come to the door, and ignore her. You should not duck service from the sheriff, though.
Go to trial, argue why your separation agreement is the best, back it up with evidence and let the Court decide.
People try for dissolution which means they craft all documents dividing up their entire life outside of court and then submit the documents to court petitioning for a court date to dissolve the marriage pursuant to said papers. If both parties are in agreement, then great! Sign the papers and petition for dissolution.
Agree and settle on how everything is divided up by executing a separation agreement that is the best compromise could offer up.
If you actually plan to have a lawyer review the papers, find a lawyer and have them ready to do that. There's no point in dragging things out.
Depending on the state, that's not possible. In my state, a party to the case cannot serve papers on the adverse party, and certified mail is not considered proper service. If she filed a complaint for divorce in my state, her ONLY option is service by sheriff or private process server.
You're legally entitled to time to review both any proposed settlement agreement and any complaint for divorce, and to have time to respond to both. The sheriff serving you does not mean you must immediately respond and sign. If she does not have a right to be in the house (if she is a co-owner or if she still currently resides there then she would likely have a right to remain) then if she refuses to leave until you sign, you can contact the police and have her removed for trespassing. Don't let her bully you into signing anything without a lawyer having reviewed it first, if you do intend on retaining one.