My husband is in salt lake prison eating gross noodles and sprite for 20 a week as I am taking care of my babies. My step daughter has issues. She moved in with us after ditching school and smoking pot she hung out with my boys alot. We paid her to babysit. 4 minths later shes claiming rape and my boys have the same story? I need help. The system has failed. I need to sue my cousin for posting private info. The money is good and she deserves it.
Is it a confidence? He worked 50 hours a week and I fed him and we were in bed by 9, same as kids. Explain how the court system believed in a young teens life and then cornered my boys to be led into the same charges. Its crap.
Okay, I’ll pipe in on this comment, as well. He groomed a teenager. Meaning you. You were a teenager, who was only 18 when she married a 30 year old, which most likely means you were a minor when you first met. How is it hard for you to believe that he would do that again?
Your entire post assumes a LOT! Her posting your private Facebook chats or anything else in her possession is NOT illegal. Her not going your food is NOT illegal. The cops don't care.
Oh this has to be trolling. In the off chance that it’s not - you have no legal grounds to stand on. None, whatsoever. As regards the court documents, most of those are available - for free - online.
Yes, you can try to sue her. But you will be wasting your time and $, because you have no viable case.
Um sorry. This situation has me crazy. I miss him and still drive his lying kid and our sons to school. She should be in jail. Not him. For laying on him. He is in jail but if thats so wrong whh is she still here? It doesnt make sense.
Please . If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, . Do not make a second post or comment.
Your post does not appear to contain a legal question - or if it does, it’s not clear what it is. Please review the following rules and edit your post to make your legal questions more clear. Do not make a second post.