In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Many red states are not attractive locations for business investment due to being sparsely populated and low workforce quality. (This is particularly true in the state that the article is about: Nebraska.) Actions like the one this thread is about further damage the state in the eyes of the corporatists.
Red states take money from corporations. Corporations want the cheapest and most disenfranchised labor possible. Red states do everything they can to sandbag the future workforce population. Boom, a pipeline of millions of trapped upward mobility inhibited modern day slaves and cannon fodder for their corporate donors. It's basically going to be forced corporate conscription, but if your family has a little money, they might be able to buy your way out.
They aren't doing this to get donations from business groups or encourage investment. If anything, they're doing it to discourage investment, because more jobs would mean higher wages and higher wages might lift their supporters out of poverty. Keeping the rubes in poverty is a key part of the Republican political strategy; can't have the masses getting uppity about the kleptocracy.
Also the main reason they want to exert control over social media. That's why they want popular sites the kids use like TikTok, but not Facebook, blocked. Plus they are still salty about how the kids used TikTok to communicate ways that f\cked Trump's Tulsa rally. It was after that when the talk of banning TikTok or forcing it to be sold began.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
And all they are doing is making their kids resentful and bitter. They are literally playing out the script from Footloose, and they seem to think the parents and pastor are the heroes. All they are doing is making the kids hate their parents, where they will eventually move away and not return.
The people who are likely to realize they are being manipulated by that likely already know they are being manipulated. Many of them have also since moved out of state.
I quit teaching in Oklahoma. After seeing Stitt and the now superintendent completely attack a district in my state for no merit in an investigation that was found to be baseless, I said I'm done.
It's all part of the Republican plan to systematically eliminate public education and make education only for the few, dedicated to Christian nationalism. That's what they are all about.
Yup. A fine of any kind will only bankrupt teachers. Most of the teachers I knew had to do multiple jobs to just make ends meet. It's not sustainable being a teacher.
Yup. For so long, education has been ruined by America. As a teacher, I've had cuts to my salary because kids didn't meet "anticipated standards" even though they score 8 points higher on a standardized test. I have seen parents state that they were going to sue the school because we used online platforms that they didn't understand, and they called us a "ghetto school" for failing their student when all the material was automated and placed online for them to observe. They didn't have internet at home, and it was somehow our fault their student failed the class, even though they could have gone at any time to internet cafés or libraries to work on school for free?
The past few years, we were told we couldn't fail any students even if they didn't do any work in class. I had students who turned in 1 assignment all year, and they were told they would just pass through anyway. When they figured that out, they just stopped listening and fights broke out daily in my school. I at that point just stopped giving a crap, and I realized it was time to leave. I'm so sick of how education has become so hollowed out in America. It's disgusting.