makes me wonder... the turing test is supposed to fool a human in to thinking they are interacting with another human. but of what intelligence? what is more believable; that you are speaking with a human of equal or greater intellect, or one of inferior intellect? wouldn't it be easier to make an ai that appears to just be a stupid person?
__Scientists have used a 3D printer to print a skin for a robot which can repair itself after being damaged.__.
They used a 3D printer to create a grid made of a hydrogel loaded with the Ganoderma lucidum fungus. Similarly to food mould, fungal mycelia – i.e. the root network of the fungi – then colonised this printed grid.
In about 20 days, the result was a skin both robust and capable of self-regeneration: when cut, it grows back. The skin owes this self-healing ability to the metabolic activity of the fungal mycelial cells, which have evolved in nature to be able to navigate and grow through the openings of porous structures.
The research by the Federal Institute of Technology ETH Zurich , published in the scientific journal “Nature Materials”, built on the self-healing properties of materials such as animal bones or plant stems, the scientists said.
However, in order for the skin to regenerate itself, it must not lose this metabolic activity, for which it needs nutrients. According to the study, the way in which the fungal skin can get this nourishment still needs further research. It is also not yet known how the waste products can be removed over a longer period of time.
To examine the process, the ETH researchers printed a robot skin and carried out several tests, such as rolling the robot over various surfaces and immersing it in water. The printed skin passed all tests without problems.
or hehehehe this is bullet proof skintanium (Futurama when Fry went crazy and though he was a robot), from Shadowrun trilogy game?
In the book Red Dwarf we genetically engineered life forms to the point that Toasters became like pets and then eventually gained sentience and rebelled (well there was a murder of a GELF who fornicated with a human that sparked it). I feel like this is the first step towards that.