Karl XII recieved a very thorough education, incuding military matters. A set of very skilled and experienced tutors were hired for the young prince's education, and his father, King Karl XI, took an active interest and at times oversaw the education himself to ensure the quality.
He was originally tutored in military matters by Carl Magnus Stuart, who had briefly served in England, worked extensively on fortification design and observed the Austrian army in its war against the Ottomans 1685. He also toured Italy, Switzerland and the Netherlands to study the lastest military developments. Later the young Prince and then King would also be tutored by Carl Gustaf Rehnskiöld, one of the most brilliant Swedish generals and perhaps one of the best of his time.
Rehnskiöld had served in the Scanian war 1676-79 together with the King, Karl XI and had been part of the 6 000 men force Sweden rented to the Dutch 1691 during the Nine Years' War (or Pfalzian Succession War) and experienced first-hand the effectiveness of the offensive French infantry tactics, which relied on fire, advance and then charge.
Rehnskiöld and Stuart, together with King Karl XI would be the fathers of the Swedish "gå på" tactical school that they developed, based on earlier Swedish tactics and the offensive French tactics as experienced by Rehnskiöld. The young prince often accompanied his father, Stuart and Rehnskiöld as they tried out various tactical solutions, using the Life Guards regiment in Stockholm in mock battles using blank ammunition, building various fortifications and terrain features at the royal grazing meadow Ladugårdsgärdet (today a public park in Stockholm). He also accompanied his father on several inspection trips, where they would travel simply and at very high paces with very few followers to catch officials and officers off guard and reveal corruption and neglection of duty. He also partook in generalmönstring, a system in which the indelta (alotted) Swedish semi-professional army held larger musters - entering new soldiers into the lists, retiring older ones, inspecting equipment, supplying new or replacement equipment but also held larger exercises - both in drill and mock battles including several regiments.
Likewise, while the King rejected pleas to await reinforcements and supply before the Battle of Narva 1700 and drove his army of about 11 000 hard towards the Russian army, the plan of attack was actually developed by Rehnskiöld. It seems like the King's education was continued in practice in the field - Rehnskiöld would also plan the Crossing of the Düna in 1701 and the Battle of Kliszow 1702. It was not until December 1702 that Rehnskiöld would leave his de facto role as chief of staff of the young King to lead an independent command. During the Grodno campaign 1706, the young King led the main army to out-manouvre the Russian army in eastern Poland-Lithuania, separating it from its Saxonian allies, then the cavalry form the infantry and then forcing the Russian infantry back into their winter camp at Grodno, sans supplies and food, laying siege to them causing about 17 000 Russians to perish from disease and starvation - while 5 000 Russians managed to flee through a swamp and join with a large part of the Russian cavalry to form a nucleus for the Russians to rebuild their army around, it was nevertheless a great victory in manouvre warfare.
While Karl XII had a very thorough military education by some of the finest generals of the era that had a lot of experience, including his father the King and the final say, he did let his more experienced generals plan his operations early during the Great Nordic War while he retained control of the overall strategy and wether to deliver battle or not.
By the time he was 18, the young King had what was probably one of the best military educations in Europe at the time. And while he repeatedly showed an aggressive, offensive spirit, driving his men onwards, he also assigned planning to more experienced officers. Stuart negotiated with the Anglo-Dutch fleet commanders and planned and commanded the landing at Holbaek which knocked Denmark out of the war 1700. The King approved the plan and partook in the landing himself, but the main work was Stuart's.
He did have experience with mock battles and exercises, both from the Life Guard experiments and the generalmönstrings as a child.
He inherited a tactical system developed by his father and the same generals that tutored him, from a combination of French and Swedish experience and only modified it slightly, updating the infantry's tactical manuals of 1696 and 1701 in 1708, changing the distance of salvos fired from 70 and 30 paces to 20 and 10.
After his long stay in the Ottoman Empire, the army had started to phase out the pike, which he re-introduced as vital to the offensive Swedish tactics - the Swedish army at Helsingborg 1710 is said to have "tumbled over" the Danish infantry due to charging in formation with pikes, with the Danes unable to fight back with their shorter muskets with bayonets attached.
Karolinsk och Europeisk stridstaktik 1700-12 (Carolean and European combat tactics 1700-12) by Gunnar Arteus.
Any chance you could elaborate on reasons for the pikes beginning to cycle out and why he thought they needed to be brought back (before apparently being vindicated)? How much longer did they last before fading away again?
Changed it from 20 and 10 paces? That's extremely close? I can't imagine you would even have time to reload and fire again in ten paces. And it seems like even if the fire isn't as effective at range, getting more salvos in from a longer range, before they get close, would be more effective.
The original batallion had 1/3 pikemen and from 1712-1716 it was mostly pahsed out for more muskets, as firepower was considered more important. However, as Karl XII returned from the Ottoman Empire, he re-introduced the pike as he considered the advantage in the charge more important.
before on /r/askhistorians, but basically, the infantry battalion deployed 4 ranks deep and the first 2 ranks fired the first salvo (the front kneeling, the rear standing). Then the rear 2 ranks passed the front 2 as they advancedand then the second salvo would be fired and the whole battalion - with all muskets empty - would charge with pike, smallsword/rapier and bayonet, put the enemy to rout, pursue and then stop, reload, and repeat the process.
I still can't see how firing from longer ranges, especially in a defensive situation as the enemy is closing in would be a bad idea. I'll read up on your other post though.
You mentioned that those tactics were effective in first first half of the war. What happened in the second half? I assume other nations adapted, but what exactly did they do to counter the Swedes?
That was the Anglo-Dutch school - platoon salvo fire to disrupt the enemy aproach, and it worked decently well against the French at Blenheim. However, salvo fire with the entire rank (or two at the same time) at close range, with or without a charge afterwards pretty much became standard tactics by the time of the 7 years' war.
Reloading could take up to a minute, as the entire unit had to wait for the slowest loader and blackpowder left a lot of residue in the barrel, making each subsequent reload harder and harder.
In general, as casualties and attrition mounted, the high quality of the Swedish troops started to go down - they were not as superior as they had been. The bets odds the Carolean army faced in battle was an enemy that had 120% of their numbers - it was usually 150-200%. Once the Caroleans could not reliably rout their enemies with their charge, they would have problems winning their battles.
That said, the Saxonians tried to use field fortifications such as in front of their troops to try to hinder the Swedish charge and attempted to bolster the firepower of their infantry by supplying to ward of the Swedes.
The Russians started deploying 6 ranks deep instead of 4 to give their units more intertia to resist the Swedish charge and started building earthen field fortifications whenever they could to help protect their troops and give them an advantage in melee - they did at Poltava 1709 and were successful.
In general, melee combat was very short if it happened at all - usually once side broke and started running even before melee happened and thus it was more about pursuit and cutting down men from behind than actual swordfighting.