I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Cleanliness and Safety; Entry. Resident agrees to maintain the assigned bedroom space, the apartment and the common areas of.
If yes, escalate with management and see if you can have her evicted, and then perhaps you'd have an easier time finding a new roommate to replace her, and you'd not have to leave.
If the lease is silent on it, then there's nothing you can do unless her conduct rises to a criminal level (she's cooking meth or something that would be considered an immediate health risk). Finding a new tenant to replace you, or moving out and continuing to pay rent until the contract expires would be your only choices.
Property pest control program as requested. Resident will place all trash in provided receptacles and will be responsible for the.
the Property in a clean, safe and sanitary condition, to exercise all due care in the use of same, and to cooperate fully with the.
cost of cleaning the interior or exterior of the apartment if not kept in sanitary condition. When outdoor temperatures are below.
40 degrees Fahrenheit, Resident will keep the apartment’s heat turned on to prevent frozen or burst pipes, including during.
on and set to a reasonable temperature to prevent mold or mildew growth, including during vacations. Owner and its agents.
any item deemed to cause a danger and is under no obligation to pay compensation for or to return such items.
and other ordinary functions, provided that Owner will provide advance notice to residents of an apartment before such entry.
employees and contractors may enter any apartment and bedroom space to perform routine maintenance, inspections, showings.
Owner reserves the right to enter an apartment and any bedroom space without prior notice (including a passkey and/or disarming.
the alarm or other means of entry if locks have been changed) for emergency maintenance or repair purposes, or when there is.
reasonable cause to believe that a situation exists that could cause danger to life, safety, health or property. Owner may confiscate.