So a person with a mental health disability should be called replaceable in the morning in the beginning of a shift and he has never been late to work he has worked for the company for over three years?
Yes, especially by employees who are displaying poor attitudes toward their work duties or disrespect toward their supervisors.
Your narrative ties it directly to your workplace conduct, not to your disability or any request for an accommodation for that disability.
They're probably going to consult with the company's HR or general counsel, since you have done the first step of requesting a reasonable accommodation for your disability (informing them of it) but none of the interactive request and accommodation process.
No I never requested any kind of reasonable accommodation I don’t know where people are getting this from never even on the application I put no I do not need reasonable accommodation.
I just noted on the application admitted to having a psychological disability and when she said I’m replaceable in her office that highly offended me. Replaceable literally means that you can get replaced with another person she’s showing me to my face that “hey you’re nothing here…”.
Then after I confronted her and said I feel highly offensive that you said that she begin to laugh like 30 minutes later made jokes about it or something. And I said “why are you laughing the cameras are on?” and she kept on laughing and she said “that’s funny the cameras are not working” how did the cameras magically stop working all the sudden 30 minutes later?
So the only thing that was caught on camera is her telling me I’m replaceable but all the other parts her laughing possibly even making other jokes with other workers not caught on camera.
It is odd you are so offended by being called replaceable. Most every employee at every business is. The less skill, training, licensing, and education a job requires the more replaceable a person is.
If you come to work you show up to work every single day for the past three years you’ve never been late once you always treat everybody with respect and kindness and then your boss one morning tells you that you’re easily replaceable.
And she knows that you’re a person who suffers from a mental health disability on the application I admitted by law I admitted that I have a psychological condition I cannot be under stress I already have a lot of stress I have Post Trumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) yes on papers medical evaluations and everything.
You said in one of your posts that you informed your employers that you have a psychiatric disability. That could be considered, by some conservative HR professionals, to be the first step in requesting a reasonable accommodation even though you did not explicitly do so.
Should that be tolerated? How is that not harassment or discrimination I think that is a full definition of harassment and discrimination you’re showing the individual you’re telling them that they are easily replaceable that they practically mean nothing to you.
How would you feel if your boss told you that you are easily replaceable that you’re nothing when you put it all into your job, into your work?
You've got almost universal agreement that your boss was mean, insulting, and rude. But what she did doesn't come within a mile of unlawful workplace harassment.
But it is neither. Is isn't discrimination to tell you they don't think you are a good worker. And it isn't harassment, legally speaking, to tell you that you are not a good worker.
If you want to be treated like everyone else then don't take things so personally. If you don't want to be treated like everyone else ask for a reasonable accommodation for your disability.
You could use this as an opportunity to ask for a reasonable accommodation for your psychiatric disability, but you'll have to identify the way in which it affects your ability to do your job, so that your employer can accommodate it.
Some folks with anxiety disorders, for example, need to be given short work breaks when they flare up, or need to have an exception to a workplace drug policy to accommodate their medication.
"I need to be allowed to display a disrespectful attitude toward my supervisor without being insulted by her" is not a reasonable accommodation.
Smart supervisors will use this kind of dispute to mediate their employee/manager relationships and lower the temperature.
Only part that was caught on camera is her calling me easily replaceable and I believe that that’s going to be enough evidence to justify my discrimination case I believe that the fact that the cameras were turned off is going to be reasonable cause of suspicion for harassment, when court views it.
Security camera operation or surveillance is not relevant. Even if a court took your narrative as 100% true and complete, your manager's disrespectful and insulting comment would not be the basis of a discrimination claim.
I don’t know I’m going to discuss and talk with my labor law attorney I believe that this is discrimination against me and the fact that the cameras were turned off, then she said “that this is all funny to her”.
How is this not discrimination she’s literally laughing about me I told her I have PTSD and I feel offended that you called me easily replaceable, then she laughs and jokes about it.
Well you’re not a labor law attorney so I’m just gonna take your advice as a Redditor because you’re just a Redditor.
The most important word in that sentence is "me". The EEOC and other workplace discrimination agencies/laws have a "reasonable person standard" they use. Just because you got upset by a single insult or disrespectful comment doesn't mean that a reasonable person would, or that it's pervasive enough to qualify as workplace harassment, or that it's based on an unlawfully discriminatory thing like your race, religion, sex, national origin, or disability. You got upset because you were insulted about your position in the restaurant hierarchy. That is not unlawful, merely mean.
Some, though will just dismiss the employees. Often they'll fire the more junior person, or the one who contributes less to the profitability or productivity of the enterprise.
When I began to work the first day of my employment I was already thrown in and rushed overloaded with a lot of tasks.
No one should be talked down to say work. It should not be tolerated. You can quit. But it isn't illegal or discrimination. Being an asshole isn't illegal.