In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
So you’re in favor of companies going beyond overboard with censorship? Because there only two possible outcomes with section 230 being removed: either absolutely no censorship, since section 230 stipulates companies must attempt in good faith to remove unfavorable let alone all unlawful content, and the consequences of such an approach to the internet, or the worst of the outcomes, which is censorship many times worse than what people complain about now in an attempt to stifle any possible legal complaints against companies. And yes companies who only care about their bottom line will go to places we cannot imagine to protect their bottom line. Everyone will be affected negatively from the demise of section 230: from liberals to conservatives, from pro worker to pro corporations, from minority advocates to traditionalists, to anyone who even posts one thing that can be taken as “controversial” by the person receiving such content regardless of the intent behind a post. Frivolous lawsuits will rise with the ruling against section 230, since America is the land where theoretically anyone can sue for pretty much anything. The internet as we know and love may likely die if section 230 goes away.
I'm all for ideas for internet reform, but to remove 230 is a very bad idea. Republicans would take advantage of the removal of section 230. It would be a step towards using the court to remove any website they want. Desantis would ban websites for any reason he conjures up. Would courts overturn them? Maybe, but it'll be a lot of back and forth overturning/appeals/overriding. It could plunge Florida into financial chaos or at least be a headache for a lot of businesses, internet personalities, etc.
Removing 230 would mean no one can comment anywhere, and even message boards would shut down. There would be more "censorship". So it's not the "win" you think it would be. The internet wouldn't be fun anymore.
right now we have a ton of moderation already. The argument I've heard is that ISIS is allowed to post on Youtube. That one I'm on the fence on because that's how our military is able to track down ISIS locations, maybe.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I am in favor of censorship. I’m appalled at the misogyny and hatred normalized online. No wonder teen girls are suicidal. Newspapers are held accountable, why not tech giants?
I guess we’re just gonna ignore that I mentioned they already are doing censorship as per the law of section 230, and also ignore how I mentioned we’re all screwed if 230 dies. You won’t even be able to call out misogyny online because that’ll be too controversial for the platforms to allow online. If you want all of us to get fucked including yourself in this situation, please get yourself checked out because that’s genuinely some MAGA level thinking of “we’re not getting our issues taken care of so let’s burn everything down.”.
The only way to remove section 230 without any negative consequences is to drastically overhaul the way civil lawsuits are filed in this country so frivolous lawsuits are almost completely eliminated, and one such reform may include criminalizing frivolous lawsuits. Unless we are willing and politically able to go through such reforms to the legal system right now, then section 230 must stay as is for now.