I wrote my master's dissertation in ancient history on the episcopal subscription/attendance lists of the First Council of Nicaea (325), so this is definitely up my alley. There are so many ways to answer this prompt, but I'm going to look at it from the development of the church as an institution. By early Christianity I assume the Apostolic Age (death of Jesus to c. 100 CE) to the ante-Nicene period (100-325). By the 4th century, when Constantine had begun to patronize Christianity as his religion, and later on, the preferred religion of the Roman Empire, the Christian church already had a robust organizational structure, and this had been in development for almost 200 years.
The Didache, a handbook for the running of early churches dating to c. 100 CE, includes numerous regulations for early church ministers in which church leaders function as apostle, prophet, and teacher, referenced in 1 Corinthians 12:28 (NIV):
These three roles don't exactly exemplify the structure we would come to expect, but at the end of the Didache we see:
So we see the election of regular officers alongside prophets and teachers. 'Deacon' comes from diakonos, meaning servant, whereas 'bishop,' episkopos, literally means an overseer. Writing at the turn of the 1st and 2nd centuries, Ignatius of Antioch urges each church to rally around the bishop and 'presbyters' (derived from presbys meaning elder) (Ign. Smyr. 8). It wasn't as cut and dry as it was later on, since a city could have multiple bishops around each respective Christian "household." Still, by the end of the 2nd century, Irenaeus and Tertullian expounded the concept of apostolic succession, that the apostles have passed down the truth to those whom each church was entrusted, the bishops, and at the beginning of each line of episcopal succession was an apostle from whom that church originated (Iren. Haer. 3.3.1-4; Tert. Praescr.). In the 3rd century during the height of Valerian's persecutions, Cyprian would go so far as to say that the episcopate was the sole judge of persons and groups in the church.
In many ways the church would parallel the imperial social order: clergy/laity vs plebs/curial class, Roman senators/equestrians/curiales etc. with bishops/presbyters/deacons and so on. On the whole we see the gradual increase in the authority of the bishop, and not only that, but a universal system of bishops united by their connection to the apostolic founders. Further parallels were drawn to the Aaron, the priestly brother of Moses, conflating the Jewish tradition as well. So by the mid-3rd century, the bishops functioned as both ecclesiastical governors and priests, and functioned as the conduit through which acceptable public worship was conducted.
Local assemblies could be visited by scholars or experts in consultation for local dogmatic issues such as heresy, with the object being consensus. Bishops in their growing roles as the embodiment of their local sees would correspond with other bishops on matters of worship, such as the date of Easter. We have firm evidence beginning c.250 onward for councils and procedures in the resolution for disputes, and now we see the developing structure of the church in action. Cyprian, faced with a schism of local clergy, gathers his own synod of local bishops, presbyters, and deacons and were able to establsih local guidelines (Cyp. Ep. 51.15.1).
Now we start to get into the politics. For as long as we have the church we have congregations that were the forerunners of church councils such as the congregation in Acts 1:15-26 which was conducted by Peter, Acts 13:1-3, and a formal delegation by Antiochene Christians to the 'apostles and presbyters' in Jerusalem (Acts 15:1-35). Of course, it might be a reconstruction by Luke, in which case it would tell us more about what church synods looked like in the late 1st century as opposed to the mid-century. Eusebius of Caesarea's Ecclesiastical History tells us that early heresies (late 2nd century) such as the New Prophecy (Montanism) were anathematized at councils:
As for anti-establishment, we see in the 3rd century the emperor Aurelian was asked to settle a theological dispute between Paul of Samosata and Domnus; Aurelian referred this matter to Pope Felix's discretion. Note how centrality of the bishops as representatives of the church to none other than the emperor himself.
So by the 4th century Constantine had found a church bound by this universal episcopal authority able to conduct its internal disputes from Rome all the way to Antioch - he himself organized a synod in Rome in 313, and another one in Arles in 314, for which we have the names of 33 bishops in the subscription lists attached to its canons. Of course, there was Nicaea. With imperial benefaction and encouragement, bishops were able to meet more frequently than ever before (Constantine granted bishops travelling to Nicaea full use of public roads and horses and subsidies for travel and lodging), and personalities could clash and ally, as ideas were shared and discussions held. Networks of correspondence facilitated the exchange of ideas or as some would say, heresies. Arius himself wrote to Eusebius of Nicomedia for support after his excommunication by Alexander of Alexandria, and Eusebius and Alexander as bishops would constitute the leaders of the opposing parties at Nicaea.
TL;DR Growth of the power of bishops under the authority of apostolic succession granted a cohesive hierarchy and structure to the church according to episcopal sees, and it was bishops who represented and embodied the churches of their cities in regional church politics in local synods and councils, as well as in the imperial arena.
By the time the first century CE rolled in, Judea, having been Hellenised through the conquest of Alexander the Great and the rule of the Seleucid Empire, the Hasmoneans, and Herodian client kings and formed into a semi-autonomous province of the Roman Empire, and the surrounding regions of the Levant and Mediterranean with whom it experienced cultural cross-pollination held a decently large contingent of φοβούμενοι τὸν Θεόν or "God-fearers," Gentile religious sympathizers to Hellenestic Judaism, a confluence of Second Temple Jewish practice and Greek thought. It is no accident that the first great theologian, apologist, and missionary of the Christian religion was Saulus (Paul), a Hellenized Jew and Roman citizen born in the city of Tarsus, Cilicia (modern day Turkey) and raised in Jerusalem.
It was in these communities of syncretized belief that Christianity first planted its roots and through them that its ideology spread across the furthest extents of the Roman Empire. For a long time, as the other commenter suggests, Christianity was relatively apolitical in terms of its relation to broader society, and, further, the proto-Orthodox period was incredibly diverse; though not fully distinct from Judaism in its first centuries, one moment of political difference was a failure to support the Jewish position of the Bar Kokhba Revolt. On the other hand, many Christian communities were intensely political, and even radical by some standards, but often only internally. Archeological evidence and external commentary support the position that the church was structured as reported in Acts as well as the Didache: the slave was maintained a slave societally but treated equally before the altar, the poor were cared for, and goods were shared in common.
Aside from the state persecution of the reign of Diocletian, Christians were largely assimilated into their communities, growing at a steady rate that hit a critical mass between 300 and 380 CE (10% of the population to 60%), at which point the Nicene formulation of Christianity was made the state religion of Rome by the cunctos populos (Edict of Thessalonica), to the exclusion of all other sects.