In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I'm not sure where I remember reading it, but I recently read something about a study that was done that was trying to gauge ease-of-access to news, versus the quality and accuracy of the news that people were most likely to have an easy time getting.
Depressingly, it turns out that "fake news" is invariably free. The truth is far more likely to require payment, and the ones with the highest journalistic standards (I'm not sure how they qualified that, but they had some kind of criteria) are mostly the ones with the paywall bullshit.
It really shows the disconnect between the owners of what is supposed to be helpful journalistic media and the people trying to ... well, ACTUALLY JOURNALIZE. Paywalls are sorely misguided and barely a boundary to anyone who really wants to read something, and the sooner the corporate suits that run those organization realize that, the better.
Yeah and other alternatives like outline, printfriendly, if you’re on a computer pressing escape before the page fully loads because the paywall is served up last, other various add-ons and ad blockers.
No prob 12ft.io is another one I forgot about, I guess just being on this sub enough, The coronavirus one, lost media, news, I can’t remember where else, you just start to collect them.
Real news requires real journalists, who it turns out, require a paycheck. Advertisers have mostly left newspapers in favor of social media, so that paycheck has to come from somewhere.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
B, I reject the very premise that news should be considered anything but a loss leader, for the most part. That they are trying to generate a PROFIT at the expense of gating important information away from citizens that may already need some convincing even to LOOK at it, while the planet burns and fascism grows ....
... and smug suits on 24-7 cable television, a medium that did not exist a few decades ago, have the gall to act like that this is how it had always been and there’s no other way.
I do not buy that this is the best monetization model they could come up with. That’s A. It’s poorly imagined, inside-the-box thinking. Like, Mad Men 1960s inside-the-box thinking. You could try to count the gray hairs on the wrinkled old asses of the group of people that sat around and decided that this is what “Internet News” should be, and have to give up out of exhaustion before finishing.
I do not assume that any of the things that you preemptively have taken off of the table ... are off the table. The BBC’s and PBS’s model CAN work, it’s not a theory. We don’t have to treat it like a Utopian pipe dream. My answer is what’s WRONG with those methods that you listed that caused you to toss them aside with a “besides these things” attitude?
I also don’t think a monetization model will be identical across the board. People have this idea that there needs to be a collection of “big name papers” that all resemble each other in form and function, but it’s not based on much but what were used to. God wrote no Commandments about making sure that there were corporatized news structures in a capitalistic economic system that resulted in a few huge big names being trusted with e nation’s thoughts and soul.
I think that our news media is going to continue to evolve, and our perception of what a “newspaper” is (a big business interest employing journalists) is largely limited by our obsession with that which we’ve always known. The Internet is still REALLY fucking new. We’re adapting to it more slowly than it is changing around us.
No, sorry. There is a way to cut a decent paycheck for people doing the actual good work, while not losing money. You may not be able to pay off a group of elite skimming owner-class people at the top who don’t do anything but “earn,” but so be it.
Ad revenue can also be done in unobnoxious ways. The problem is the utter madness that we have with MAXIMIZING every damn cent. If all we cared about was paying news people to make news and breaking even, it would be a far healthier service being delivered to the public.
The simple truth is that ad revenue is no longer there. This is not a bold or unusual claim I’m making, do a little research into the industry.
Subscriptions are great (in my opinion, obviously) but you seem to have a problem with paying for news, so it’s you that’s disallowing that one.