In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Especially since they took the low road to power and pursued policies that only benefitted the very wealthy and religious zealots.
When he fired the head of the FBI for investigating him and his ties to Vladimir Putin, they applauded him. When the FBI brought in Mueller to investigate him, the GOP brought in Barr to make the report go away.
When he was impeached twice, the Republicans in the House and Senate breathlessly defended him and refused to remove him from office.
When Trump said that the pandemic was a hoax, the right wing celebrated his stable genius, and thousands of them died of the virus with his lies still on their lips. The friends and loved ones of his victims then violently assaulted doctors and nurses when they dared to explain the cause of death. When Trump declared that the election was stolen, the party rallied to his cause.
So yeah, Donald Trump didn't torpedo the party. He merely showed America how bad things could get if Republicans remained in charge of anything important.
When he shepherded an insurrection against the United States of America, the GOP refused to acknowledge it for what it was, and they threw monkeywrenches to prevent accountability for him or for anyone involved. They're still doing it now.
Yup. All Trump did was endorse these clowns. It was Republican voters that enthusiastically voted for them in the primaries and put them on the ballot.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The GOP had been on the road to destruction for decades before that. When they made power by any means their modus operandi it was going to happen eventually.