Generally you can't appeal a plea bargain unless you can prove your counsel was ineffective. In the legal sense proving ineffective counsel is a high bar, basically you need to prove that they did an unreasonably bad job, and if you had adequate counsel the result would have been different. With getting a suspended sentence, charges reduced from intent to distribute it is hard to argue that they did a bad job. Showing up late and getting continuances aren't really an issue legally(presumably you were not in jail during this time).
If you did go to trial your lawyer could have argued the stop should have been excluded, they had no probable cause. The officer would have said they saw you go over the center line or commit some other minor traffic infraction, they did have probable cause. Most likely the judge would believe the officer and wouldn't exclude anything. And potentially you could have been sentenced to up to 5 years in prison, with a felony record.
But with the warrant, violating probation, issues with the license you will want to talk to a criminal defense attorney anyways. You can ask them about any possibility of appeal.
Thanks you. One thing though if the officer was brought to court and said he saw me go over the line or something along those lines would it not be asked why didn't you write a citation warning or enter it in your report? Just wondering. And do you think my lawyer might have believe it was a typical case where I was caught red handed no way to get around and, or potentially didn't want to come back to court to do trail process I had paid him 850 when I hired him and he was to get my 800 dollar bond as rest of payment. Meaning if he closed the case he got his money.
For probable cause and a legal stop the police need "a reasonable basis for believing that a crime has been committed". That means they aren't required to write a ticket for the original infraction, they could ultimately be mistaken about going over the center line occurring and the stop is still legal.
Most defense attorneys charge a lot more if you go to trial, so they get more money if they drag out the case or if you refuse a plea bargain.
Talk to an attorney about what your best options are now. If you haven't been arrested for anything else there is a real chance you can avoid jail, whether you need to travel to Florida is harder to say.
I think we have had a slight misunderstanding I was given the citation for driving left of center: ---.
Vehicle Code 21751 VC mandates that drivers pass to the left of center only when there is sufficient clearance. Vehicle Code 21752 VC prohibits drivers from overtaking and passing on the left in specific circumstances.
The citation is about passing a vehicle I was on a residential narrow road and the cop and I had been the only two cars on the road for at least 3 minutes. If it was for driving over the line I would definitely given up on trying to figure it out but the ticket was for something that would take an extremely skilled driver to do lol. It was a very narrow road while cars were parked at night.
When we sat down I asked him if he knew what time it was. He looked up at the clock and told me. And I said thanks, I appreciate it. Not sure if he got the joke or not.
I believe it was dismissed as bogas because driving left of center has to do with passing a vehicle. And the officer and I were the only two vehicles on the road (it was around 3am) I was also on a residential street (one car can drive in each direction, narrow st. ) also because I don't see why else they would dismiss it considering it bring the town money. Town of 10k they like to ticket and put anyone they can into their probation money trap.