St John's was a tiny colony. Quebec and Ontario were primarily French, not Anglo, and were part of lands aquired in just 1763. Along with Ruperts Land, they were further away from the 13 colonies as well. England actually held over 30 colonies in the Americas in the early 1770s but over half were in the Caribbean.
The British had captured Nova Scotia in Queen Anne's War 50 years earlier. It was opened for settlement by New England colonists; Benjamin Franklin even bought some land there. Anglo Protestants also moved to settle there from Europe. When France was defeated in the fourth Indian war (Seven Years' War), Nova Scotia and New Brunswick were combined as one colony by the British - it was primarily protestant, anglo, attached to the 13 colonies physically, and somewhat tired of British authority. But they had a major British Navy base in Halifax and an overly suspicious leader, Governor Legge. He was very concerned with rebellion and was recalled to England in 1776 (at the request of other prominent and loyal Nova Scotians), while still being paid, just to get him out of the colony. His replacement, one of the men who petitioned for his recall, worked with citizens to unite the colony much more than his predecessor. When things started to get violent and Boston was evacuated by the British, the loyalist citizens that went with the military were settled in Nova Scotia. New England privateers had been raiding Nova Scotia in night raids against the state and populace, making Nova Scotia much less sympathetic to America's cause. All of this combined helped Nova Scotians to not send representatives to our first two Continental Congresses. In 1775, a small group did address Washinon, asking for an invasion of Nova Scotia by American rebels. He declined to help;.
We weren't really doing great at that point ourselves. We would soon see Benedict Arnold, one of our best, defeated by smallpox and the British in Ontario (another colony not joining the rebellion), and now a colony that never showed for the Philly conventions wanted us to liberate them while they weren't trying to liberate themselves. Of course had they sent anyone to Philly in '74 Legge likely would have hung them. One can also see reference to naval imbalance and the inability to properly supply munitions to our own soldiers in Washinton's letter.
Had Pensacola, St Augustine, and Nova Scotia joined - something not too far outside of reality - we would speak of the "16 original colonies.".
It's a funny thing: in 1775, Nova Scotia was basically asking to become the 14 colony. One year after Washinon's letter, August 11, 1776, news would reach St Augustine in the British colony of Florida of the Declaration Of Independence. That night, citizens of the 14th British colony would hang Hancock and Sam Adams in effigy. They would remain loyal through the war. In 1783 it was technically returned to spain, not given to America, and wouldn't officially become a territory until 1821.
How did Washinon reconcile this with an invasion of Canada which while not technically started yet, was surely already well planned and in the process of staging men and supplies for? Seems a bit hypocritical no?
Washinon just had no forces to contribute nor good reason to do so. They weren't actively rebelling themselves (they did have a similar event to the Tea Party in which they burned hay). It was a primarily Anglo protestant colony, and Quebec was not.
(A fun side note of his plan is that it would have merged the colonial confederation with the Iroquois Confederation.).
Also, there was no "America" in 1775. Only colonies associated together through the Articles of Association. So it was like Georgia asking the forces of the Carolina's and Virginia to liberate them. Of course Washinon was inclined to say no.
Another Franklin tie in - he, Charles Carroll, and Samuel Chase investigated what had gone wrong at Quebec City. They ultimately determined it was a failure of Congress, though many Congress members blamed it on the pox. While that was a factor (and may have been intentionally started by the Brits who were known to do smallpox warfare in the 1760s and 1770s), the limited supplies and lack of leadership provided was more significant in the withdrawal from Quebec.
Being French and Catholic, Quebec worried our colonial government much more than Nova Scotia. It was a threat to culture and security. It was a fellow North American Colony. It should be united with us. A plan was made to leave Ft Ticonderoga in August and by mid September it was well underway. Montgomery took over 1000 men and laid seige to Fort St John's in Quebec. When they surrendered, the army marched to Montreal, abandoned as "unprotectable," and took it without a fight. About that time is when Arnold and the 600 bushwackers that made it 400 miles through the Maine wilderness (many more started with them but died or deserted on the way) showed up to siege Quebec City. Montgomery joined and they started the attack as snow fell, at first a blessing keeping them hidden. Soon it turned disasterous, limiting their visibility and fouling their firearms. 400 were captured and Montgomery killed. Arnold stayed until Smallpox devastated the troops and Burgoyne showed up in spring of 1776 with fresh reinforcements, pushing the Americans back out of Quebec in a few weeks.
Washinon was a military general, appropriating forces. The decision to include Nova Scotia or not was Congress' to make. They were certainly originally invited. In July of 1775 Franklin had introduced his Articles of Confederation, Article XIII reading;.
Edit to add: Even after the revolution was over Jefferson was still convinced it would work with Quebec (others did, too). In the War of 1812 he proposed taking Quebec and making it an American territory, theorizing it would be an easy task with light resistance offered.
The declaration of war was very partisan in the final votes and directly led to the phrase "Mr Madison's War.".
It was a very common opinion shared by those dubbed "War Hawks". A lot of it came from the opinions of Jefferson's Secretary of War, Henry Dearborn, who had been with Gen Arnold in the Quebec raid (and was captured there) before rising through the ranks as a very important revolutionary figure. He wound up in Congress during Washinon and Adams before becoming Sec of War.
As for Jefferson himself, he often wrote Monroe and occasionally Madison (and others), identifying ways he thought would best apply resources or fund the war effort. He had tried to build our navy and coastal defenses as president and did increase both but ultimately fell short of his goals. Another individual had been instrumental in our navy, and Jefferson applauded his efforts. That man was John Adams and those correspondence regarding the war, and it's funding, are what began to draw the two men back together. 1812 would be the first year one wrote to the other directly since their falling out years earlier.
The great irony here is that Norfolk was seen as vulnerable and bound to be attacked. Canada was seen as a quick easy victory. When Norfolk was finally attacked in the summer of 1813, not one American soldier was lost in the Battle of Craney Island, defending the city. The British were so overpowered by artillery that they never made landfall from their barges. However, as of several months earlier, the only Americans remaining in Canada were prisoners of war - and Detroit had been lost to the Canadians/Natives. The fort that had been captured in a 15 minute battle before complete American surrender was erected under Jefferson, at direction of his Sec of War, to bolster defences; it was Fort Dearborn. An attempt to retake Detroit in early 1813 led by William Henry Harrison had also failed. In July of 1813, then Major General Dearborn was replaced by Madison, ending his military career.
The War of 1812: Forgotton Conflict by. Donald Hickey deals in depth with the war and opinions around it (and was updated in 2012).
Joseph Fairbanks, a loyalist merchant, had gathered an undefined quantity of hay in Halifax to be sent to Boston for British horses. Sometime in early summer of 1775, it caught fire while waiting to be loaded onto a ship.
Backing up... Dec 1773 the Boston Tea Party happens. The following year tea from the East India Co is being refused in some "American" ports, so all refused tea is landed in Nova Scotia. William Smith, a Halifax public official, had recieved a shipment of New England tea and distributed it. Further, he had been against the forced purchase of tea mandated by the crown. His buddy, John Fillis, had discussed the matter and agreed. In Sept of 1774, they were stripped of their official positions in the town by the council. The next summer the hay would burn, and soon word spread to Gage in Boston that the two New England born men had been involved. In June they attempted to clear their names, stating they were "unable to detect the vile traducers of their character" but had nothing to do with it. The Halifax leadership agreed and their names were cleared of "infamous and false" allegations.
Hope that gives a little better picture of the troubles brewing in Nova Scotia. There were additional incidents but, particularly as they partain to the hay, Fillis, and Smith, these are the big ones.
Beyond the colonial and business elites with a vested interest in maintaining imperial ties with Britain, the locals were largely wary and indifferent about rebellion and just wanted to be left alone to fish, farm or trade in peace. American privateering raids did much to sway local opinion away from any thought of rebellion; the significant British military presence in Halifax and harsh sedition laws likely helped too.
Relations between the local populace in both New England and Nova Scotia were good throughout, as they had shared familial and commercial ties. They also profited from trade -- with both sides -- during the revolution.