I don't. I am the SO of the person who wrote this. They don't have reddit so I uploaded it for them, but they're at work rn. I can ask him today while he's on break.
Well, there's no one harder to work for than family. That said, you might be surprised about how the owner feels about it. Especially if it's illegal, you can use that to throw your weight around but make it clear you're only doing so for the child.
I'm going to go out on a limb and they say probably know, this is a family business and the driver is one of many members of the family who work there. Can't be sure tho. SO has told me stories of some really nice members of the family, so I wouldn't be surprised if owner didn't know too. Driver who deducted hours has reputation for being rather sour.
An employer once told me that it was my own responsibility to make sure my hours were right. After that, I definitely always made sure everything I worked was accounted for.
I grew up around a mid-size family business. I wouldn't assume they know or endorse it just because it's family. They aren't necessarily on the same page all the time--at least mine wasn't. In my family's businsess family members were given maybe a bit more chances, but they at least got corrected, and sometimes fired if the correction didn't take.
This is something I never thought about, but I am almost positive he works nothing close to full time. I think he often comes in for about 4-5 hours a day, a few days a week. if this was a case, it shouldn't be legal for them to work him overtime and deduct it tho, right? My SO knows for a fact he was there 7 hours yesterday, and it's not like yesterday marked the end of a pay period or something, you know?
He's worked there for a long while. I'm not sure how it is in a lot of states, but a lot of places around here won't employ 16 year olds. He needs this job, he works 2 right now.
Right, I was thinking about this. I don't blame him for staying, being compensated for sitting down between deliveries sounds really nice (if everything were to be resolved). But yes, I think I can do my part by seeing where is hiring minors right now. I think it might be best to stray away from a job that doesn't treat him with respect.