We need to know your state to give more specific advice. Some states have laws that change the usual common law standards and may give you more protection. For example, Michigan has this law that could apply:
They are responsible to take reasonable care of the vehicles left with them. That doesn't mean 24/7 security, and guard dogs etc. It means something more like outdoor lighting in their lot, and maybe security cameras. Basically, to hold them responsible in court, you'd most likely have to prove they were negligent in some way that contributed to the theft.
They are not automatically responsible for the actions of third parties, just because it happened on their property.
I'd probably just make a claim with your insurance and give them the contact info for the shop. Let them pursue the shop's insurance if they think there's reason to.
The sign has nothing to do with it. The legal term is 'bailment', and means they have the responsibility to take care of your property the same way that you would, or that a reasonable person would.
The shop should have an insurance policy to cover such things, but will be reluctant to make a claim. Make a police report if that has not already been done, and then talk with your personal auto insurance company, but do not immediately file a claim. Your insurer may or may not help to get the shop to do the right thing.
Pretty sure it is not like parking at the Grocery store. And I am certain that the same shop would lock your car up in an inaccessible place after they complete your repairs and actually Owe them Money. They then have an interest in making sure you don't slip in there in the middle of the night with your spare key and rip them off of their repair fees. Nope that car will be locked up in Fort Knox with 3 Pitbulls sleeping in it until you pay up. Seems reasonable to expect the same amount of Security to protect your vehicle until they have completed the repairs that you originally brought it in for. They should be expected to replace any parts, or items stolen while waiting for service.