In truth your request does raise eyebrows. It is the second week of November and there is a memorial service around Thanksgiving but you cannot say when it is? Don’t most people have to make arrangements for time off during the holidays more than 2 some weeks in advance? And make travel arrangements?
It is true that NY had very rigid quarantine restrictions for travel and they all ended April 1 2021.
I am not sure that NYDOL would be interested as this is more of an issue of a contract interpretation as NY does not require bereavement leave.
I was giving my employer the benefit of advance notice that I would need to take the time but did not know when was going to be- I could only provide a range around Thanksgiving. Why wouldn't it makes sense to have it around Thanksgiving? Families come together and this is the first Thanksgiving that we can do that safely since the pandemic started.
I now know when the memorial is since writing this, but that doesn't matter. The point is that my employer is making me excessively justify bereavement time, and it's thinking like that that's going to be the downfall of civility. It's obvious that some people game the system, but people like me that are trying to be honest get screwed over.
This is the type of thinking that I can't understand. Traditionally, when someone dies and you have bereavement time that is written into a contract like I do, you get the days. No one asks you what you're doing each day of the bereavement. No one is asking you when the memorial is. No one is asking you why you want to take that much time. You just get it and you use the time how you see fit to be with your family. That's all I'm asking for.
I could have just said that I'm taking my bereavement time and not come to work with no warning. I could have said someone else in a country with my last name died and I need to mourn them and I need 5 days. I didn't because that's dishonest.
I know you didn't mean to question like that but it struck a nerve. I guess I'm just naive. But thank you for your sentiments about my situation. And also, I'm not part of a union. I'm not allowed to join it. Long story. It involves terms and conditions and voluntarily signing up a waiver that I'm not allowed to join the union. So I'm on my own with this.