What state are you in? Do you know what state he'd have been from, or what time frame you're looking at?
CPS didn't exist until 1974, so finding records on child-related cases prior to that is going to be tricky. Plus, of course, there's always the issue of physical record degradation.
I am assuming his case would have been in Michigan based on his social. The starting digits indicate it was assigned in that state.
And he was born either in 57/58 I have documents stating both years. I am working on getting my affidavit of parentage to confirm his social but we (estranged relatives on my mother side who were occasionally in contact with him) are sure the deceased in question was him.
You need to know who your paternal grandparents are so having his birth certificate will help. Hopefully you can get it through the PR. The people/cousins on ancestry may not respond at all but you can still gather info on their place of birth. Find out if they all concentrated in one area or state. If you can find your grandparents, you can start calling every tribal administrator in the state you think is best. They won’t tell you anything personal but they will tell you if they have a enrolled member by the family name.
What it sounds like is that I really need to put a priority on finding out who his parents/ my grandparents are before I can really find more information.
Thank you for all the recommendations. I didn't even think about doing that. Need to work on my detective skills that's for sure.
The BIA, Bureau of Indian Affairs can help. You do need to come up with his death certificate but once you do they can help you research your family lineage. Look into your bio mother as well. There can be links that help narrow down areas your family may have settled. Also give Ancestry.com a try. It will give you great leads to distant relatives. Good luck.
I did what you said and have been cross referencing the family tree's. They're all distant relatives (4th-6th cousins) but I was able to find a portion of their trees that matches between three out of four individuals. And most of them all were in the same spot at birth and is a current reservation in Canada.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.