Did people criticizing actually read the whole article, that the fetus will not have quality of life? It would have severe handicap?
That could be anything from not having a brain or any vital organs. Sure the baby breathes. But is it life? How many hours, days or weeks can it live outside of the uterus?
This is a medical termination, not that of a healthy baby because she so chooses. This is not letting this life be in pain or suffer, and to be clear the only thing the court said was that it was the mother’s choice. Weather she wants to give birth to a still born, wait weeks until the baby suffers and dies, or have mercy and terminate an unviable pregnancy.
They all skipping that part and only reading the Abortion at 33wks and looking at it from the perspective of US and EU law.
"Justice Singh further noted that in Indian law, it is ultimately a mother's choice whether or not she wants to continue with her pregnancy.".
You do know that the full medical scope is not given to the media righ? Only to the parties involved and experts.
Exactly, also the part where the mother is interviewed and she knows the trauma involved with any of her choices. To wait and give birth to a still born is extremely traumatic for any woman. If a Neuro surgeon was involved it is the assumption the baby after birth would have very little chance at life even after intervention.
Thats twisting whats actually written in the article: "The neurosurgeon said that it is likely that the child will have some handicap, but would survive. The doctor added that he cannot predict the ‘quality of life’ of the child, but a surgery can be conducted to deal with some of the issues nearly 10 weeks after its birth".
Do you really think they can publish the intricacy of someone's personal health care without violating patient privilege? They gave as much information as is necessary for the specific piece. Clearly there was a trial, obviously the judges received the more in depth information they needed to reach their conclusion. We are not privy to every detail. Saying that a doctor can't predict quality of life at 33 weeks gestation is quite severe. Doctors know what a healthy baby, good quality of life, would look like at that point.
Likelyhood of survival up to the 10th week but not guaranteed. Why is the intervention not done in utero? Why is the intervention not done immediatly after birth to guarantee survival?
There is also the health of the mother. What if its a fast growing tumor on the fetus? What if carrying this fetus to term would hinder future pregnancies? What if carrying this fetus to term will kill the mother?
So many questions. The case was because of the advance stage of pregnancy the hospital board was hesitant (as far as legal issues, liability), not the survivability of the fetus. In this case the medical procedure would be an early induction at 33 weeks, it is assumed there is no way (even with modern medicine) this fetus will survive outside of uterus upon birth before term. This woman will give birth to this fetus (or will have a C-section), it is the only way on the third trimester to end the pregnancy. It is by all means a medical procedure, a very traumatic medical procedure.
Worry about an unviable pregnancy now, forget if the woman dies or could never carry another child. What if the woman already has a family. Better the unvible fetus and leave her children orphan?
That is what I don't understand, why people don't think about women and women's future health and that is cruel.
"Justice Singh further noted that in Indian law, it is ultimately a mother's choice whether or not she wants to continue with her pregnancy.".
At 20 weeks, there is no chance of survival outside of the host. By 28 weeks, the chance increases greatly that there could be survival depending on healthcare available. The birth is considered premature with potential complications. By 33 weeks, it's just a bit early birth that may have some complications, but could very likely be fine without much or any healthcare intervention. A right to choose to deal with the pregnancy, especially when new information becomes available, is an important right to have due to the fact that in the end, it's up to whoever the care taker will be if they know they will not be able to and will not have the resources to. Better to make a choice before birth when it's a fetus than where some people abandon children.
It's amazing to realize that even with the internet searches at one's fingertips, so many of the people in these comment type the most random thing about pregnancy/birth as though they're experts. It makes me wonder if this is why it's so easy for the anti-choice movement to sway people throughout the world...like basically saying "don't worry, fetuses are viable from the second they form and all they need is some magical prayer ([and medical intervention]) and they'll be just fine." I also can tell that people don't seem to meet a ton of preemies over their time in the hospitals (in places where that is accessible) or with growing children/adults who were preemies, especially severely premature, and how their health overall is.
Your assumption is that access to healthcare and the type of intervention available in healthcare is the same in every part of the world. You also assume that a 20 week premature birth will allow the child to be just fine. Lots of complications for the rest of their life in "good case scenario" healthcare access.
If the fetus is born with medical issues that need a fairly immediate surgery and the doctors are questioning quality of life, then that means there is a life in serious danger and this woman is choosing the least invasive and complicated option for the uncertainty and complications that were presented. In other words, she's made the most humane decision out of the various complex decisions ahead of her.
Do an internet search about what happens to a person's organs while they carry a fetus. And what happens after. Risk of gestational diabetes. Pelvic floor prolapse. Dangers around childbirth in general. Infant/maternal mortality. Pre-eclampsia. Vaginal tearing. Ectopic pregnancy. Many other risk factors that impact one's body and can lead to possible life-long internal dysfunction or surgeries or death.