In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
So, conservatives are openly admitting that they really don't care to treat kids with any respect of personal autonomy, and that they only view kids as little extensions of themselves?
If your religious beliefs say that you have to hate LGBTQIA+ people, you're the one with the problem. If your religious beliefs are so insecure to the point you can't even be nice to someone who's LGBTQIA+, you're the one with the problem. Christian nationalism needs to go. It's fruitless. It's not based in love; It's based in xenophobia. The fact the GOP even entertains it shows how inhumane they are.
Uh, no. Teachers do not work "for the parents". They work in conjunction with the parents to do what's best for the child.
Teachers work with the parents (if they have any) and do what's best for the children. I don't get how conservatives don't understand that.
Conservatives are the bullies in school, except they are now adults. Groups like Moms for Liberty do not care about liberty at all. They only care that they have the liberty to boss everyone into their Christofascist worldview. This is the most despicable thing about all this.
Republicans always cry out "Think about the children", but they actively delight in creating policies that harm kids, because they're "Not the right kind of kids.".
I understand your point of view. Now, here is the thing this child is 9. At the age of 9, what do you really know ? Now hear me out. Without all the social media nonsense that at the age of 9, looking at and listening to? 9 years old are very impressionable. That they want to fit in no matter where. Think about what you did and where at the age of 9. 9 is too young. I am sorry, I can understand 17, 18 when your somewhat older and you have some idea idea of the world and not thru social media, but have a job and you been out in the world. A 9 year old has none of that yet, but does have social media that tells them how to act,dress,what to eat, etc. They are molding very innocent minds.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Buddy, I knew I didn't want to have kids by the time I was 10. I knew I didn't want to have sex with anyone from a very young age, around 11. I had people constantly tell me I would change my mind when I get older. I have people who still tell me that, and I'm 33 now. The whole contagion thing is so ridiculous.
Believe it or not, they used to believe left-handed people were a sin and some kind of contagion all the same. As the rate of left-handed people shot up, people thought there was a sin to that. Nope, it is just that people are more comfortable to come out and live their truth. People are not afraid of the stigma. It's the same thing with trans people.
The only molding that's going on is people based on religious hate trying to shame trans kids back into the closet.
"Alternative way of life", "lifestyle", "choice", "demon possession", "converted", "seduced", "brainwashed", "forced", "agenda", "unnatural", etc. Anything but what it actually is, epigenetic variation of humanity, that also includes some homosexual and transgender people in it. Other humans are so scary, so frightening. Fear, fear and fear. Waah waah waah, with some terror on the top.
This is why I call the Republican Party worse than the Westboro Baptist Church. They are so hateful in their bigotry that they actually delight in knowing so many kids will be harmed by these bills, so long as they can hurt their non-Christian nationalist constituents. That's dehumanization at the greatest level. What makes them any better than the Taliban at this point? Nothing, as far as I can see.