>We're sorry. The page you are looking for cannot be found. You may have followed a broken or outdated link, or there may be an error on our site.
I made a severe and continuous lapse in my judgement, and I don’t expect to be forgiven. I’m simply here to apologise.
There's a lot of things I should have done differently but I didn't. And for that, from the bottom of my heart, I am sorry. I want to apologise to the international community. I want to apologise to anyone who has seen the video. I want to apologise to anyone who has been affected or touched by the special military operation, or washing machine theft, or mobilization. But most importantly I want to apologise to Zelensky and his family.
What we came across in Ukraine that day was obviously unplanned. The reactions you saw on tape were raw; they were unfiltered. None of us knew how to react or how to feel. I should have never ordered that special military operation. I should have pull the tanks out and stopped what we were going through.
For my compatriots who are defending my actions, please don't. I don’t deserve to be defended. My goal with my presidency is always to entertain; to push the boundaries, to be all-inclusive. In the world live in, I share almost everything I do. The intent is never to be heartless, cruel, or malicious. Like I said I made a huge mistake. I don’t expect to be forgiven, I’m just here to apologise. I'm ashamed of myself. I’m disappointed in myself. And I promise to be better. I will be better. Thank you.
I am a little skeptical of this. Like no country besides like India, Pakistan, and North Korea have been actively improving their nuclear arsenals since the '80s. Also with how bad corruption is, I wouldn't be surprised If large amounts of fuel in their nuclear missiles have been siphoned off and sold for cigarettes and vodka. Also, some nuclear weapons use tritium, which has a half life of 12.3 years. Without technical and exact nuclear science is, I'm imagining that even after just a year that probably wouldn't work unless that's changed out or reprocessed. That also doesn't even include electrical components. The US nuclear arsenal still uses floppy disks. It wouldn't Surprise me if The Russian nuclear arsenal largely still uses magnetic tape and Nixie tubes, And those things break down over time.