I’m a former Army medic. I’m not a doctor, and I’m not currently certified in anything. If you doubt what I’m telling you, please call your healthcare provider to confirm.
That being said, you absolutely need to go to a hospital and get treatment for these bites. If the bites broke the skin, I would be shocked if there was any doctor in the country who wouldn’t immediately prescribe antibiotics. Animal bites are serious and always require medical attention.
If you don’t want to get your brother in trouble for some reason, you can always go to the emergency room and refuse to provide any details about the attack. Emergency rooms in the US are required to treat you, so they can’t turn you away if you refuse to identify the dog.
Please see a doctor. Animal bites can turn bad very quickly. You might be sacrificing your life to protect your brother’s dog.
I wish I had thought of how they couldn’t turn me away there. Fuck. I went to urgent care because it was getting hot, and still is now, but I had to report it there. I said it was my dog and only like half filled out the info.
You cant risk your health and well being because your brother's dangerous dog will be taken away, it needs to be. Your brother's choice was taken away from him the first time the dog attacked and he chose to do nothing about it, laws exist for a reason. The dog is too dangerous.
Generally there is something called the "one free bite" rule. The first time a dog attacks there's not much consequences. This time the dog will probably be declared dangerous. Some places, the owners are given the option to implement containment actions for the dog. For example, requiring it be confined to a dog run is a common requirement. If the owner can't or won't do that, the dog stands a chance of being put down. Other places just put down dangerous dogs.
Do you want to share the county? It will make a difference since dog stuff is usually controlled by local ordinance.
The first time was 9/2019, but I already signed a lease and was moving in with my brother a few weeks later. We do contain him, he’s not around anyone other than us and his girlfriend. If he has to be he’s muzzled. He’s also chewed through 2 of his muzzles. He was around me with a muzzle for over a year, but since like last summer he’s been fine and I was like basically his second owner.