I'm sorry that this happened to you, and you're free to consult with an attorney, but I'm not sure there's a viable case against the hospital. Generally, people aren't held responsible for the independent actions of another person. For negligence cases, you have to show there's a duty, a breach of that duty, causation, and damages. Here I'm not sure there's a duty owed from the hospital to you. It's not the hospital's job to to protect people on the street. Their duty is to treat their patients and to provide a safe environment inside their facilities.
There's a duty to the patient in this situation. If they released him when he should haven't been released, they may have breached their duty to him. But that doesn't necessarily transfer over to you.
I hope you get treatment from a mental health professional in this regard. The general fact of the matter is that you're no more safe or any more danger than you already were walking to work. Dangerous people visit hospitals every day. Law-abiding citizen visit hospitals every day. There could be dangerous people on your path regardless of the hospital. There could be good people willing to help on your path regardless of the hospital. People have the capacity to commit worst acts humanly possible and the kindest acts imagine simultaneously. That's just human nature. In environments where you're vulnerable, you should always hope for the best but plan for the worst.
There may be a possible worker's compensation claim if you were traveling to work. I'm not quite sure when that claim would attach. You would need to consult an employment law attorney to get better insight on that.
Typically when patients are being violent toward staff they are evaluated by psych. I’m curious if he was. Psych also sometimes says that patients aren’t a danger to themselves or others when they clearly are.
I was told there would be a WC claim but haven’t received any further info. Our workers comp is also an absolute nightmare to deal with, so I’m sure if I need any mental health treatment from this I’ll end up waiting months for a provider.
Physically I was injured, but not seriously- a few cuts, some bruises, and general body soreness that is lingering. I am definitely traumatized. I have to testify in front of a grand jury next week, which I’m sure won’t be easy. I will definitely need therapy after this.
I’m just so angry. I’ve been threatened and yelled at and physically harmed at work before, but I expect that at work, sadly. I do not expect to encounter that in my personal life because my colleagues discharged someone that clearly should’ve been on a psych hold.
Financially, I have to miss a bit of work to meet with the ADA and go to court, and I don’t have much PTO and may go unpaid.
This is the kind of case that if you sued I would imagine it settling for $3-5k. Note also that going down this path risks the hospital terminating your employment.
I think this comment is being downvoted because you assumed the hospital or its psychiatrists did something wrong. Hospitals and psychiatrists are not able to predict the future, and so in order to involuntarily detain someone there needs to be a very clear indication the person will cause harm. "He might" won't cut it.
Maybe. You would need to be able to show that the patient met the legal standard for involuntary commitment (imminent threat of harm to self or others). If he didn't, the hospital had no legal right to detain him.
I didn’t assume they did something wrong, I said I wonder if they did the right thing. I work there and have witnessed more questionable and unsafe discharges than I can count. I know they do not always do things by the book. I always push back when I’m involved in the case and there have been many times when I’ve been met with resistance. So forgive me for wondering if the hospital made a mistake when I’ve witnessed them make this exact mistake many times.
Edit- why are people downvoting this? I’m asking questions and talking about how I was violently robbed and I’m getting downvoted? Seriously?