This may be a bit early for you but I wrote an earlier on Italian banking in Medieval England under the reign of Henry III and Edward I, in which one could see one of the first cases of a European monarchy making extensive use of a single banking family for most of their loans. For further reading, I recommend R. Kaeuper's Bankers to the Crown: The Riccardi of Lucca and Edward I, it's a bit old, but there aren't too many books on the topic.
The post focuses mostly on your last question on why one would want to loan out so much money in a such a risky enterprise. In the case of Late 13th-Early 14th century England (This is the era I wrote the post on, but this economic policy lasted all the way to the 16th century), you're assumption is right. This was a highly fragile business relationship between the bank and the crown wherein the kings were often dismissing and bringing in new banking companies (Almost exclusively Italian) to supply their loans.
However dangerous this was, the main reason that companies kept providing loans to the English crown was that the benefits were just that much enticing. Again, I'll write on the family that I previously described, being the Riccardi of Lucca (Active from the mid to late 13th century under Edward I) as they were the first to become involved in this new model. In short, the Riccardi would provide an extraordinary amount of funds to the king, and they would gain a very advantageous control over customs as a means to collect repayment. This involved Riccardi officials staffing the ports and directly receiving customs fees, as well as fines which other competing companies paid the crown. The post provides a few numbers on it, but to sum it up, the Riccardi would make about £10,000 annually. To put that into scale, a 1287 campaign into Wales by Edward costed around £10,000 as well, which the Riccardi, incidentally, had provided £8,000 towards. Furthermore, in their about 20 year relationship with the monarchy, the Riccardi had loaned out a minimum of £400,000, so this was a very beneficial business deal for them.
Of course, I did say that the English kings constantly brought new bankers in and out, and the Riccardi would eventually fall from grace in the eyes of the crown. However, Edward didn't actually fail to pay back his loans at all, and if anything, this was the fault of the Riccardi. What happened was a perfect storm in 1291 where thanks to several seizures under the French king Phillip IV (About £11,000) and a Papal recall of funds (5,000 florins that would be increased to 80,000 in 1295, though after they lost favor with the English), the Riccardi were somewhat strained at the time. But the real stress came from Edward's attempt in 1291 to organize a crusade, requesting 100,000 marks (£66,666, mark = 2/3 of a pound) as merely the first initial half of the loan. Surprisingly, the Riccardi, though in a delicate situation, were still ultimately stable, but then in 1294 Edward declared war on France, and then floodgates opened up. I unfortunately don't have this number on me, but because of everything that I earlier said, the Riccardi could not supply a satisfactory amount and were completely ousted from their position from the crown. Long story short, the company was over. Just to show this, the last extant letter of the Riccardi comes at the end of the century (Sorry, I don't have the book on me so I'm using an earlier paper I wrote using it which didn't include the year) desperately requesting for a mere 50 marks (£33) and four lambskins from London for clothing.
What I want to point out with this twenty year enterprise, is that the monarchs were not always the villains who refused to pay their loans out of greed. Instead, with the case of the Riccardi, the bankers were the ones who failed to provide sufficient funds (Albeit, out of bad luck) and went out of business as a result.
Meaning that the Church - and the Pope in particular - was a major source of Italian banking capital/reserves at this time, and that they had the ability to quickly "cash out" large sums at their discretion?
Were there ever cases of a large Italian bank refusing to meet such a demand due to liquidity or solvency issues (the default of a foreign government, etc) and if so what happened? Did the Church ever end up seizing by force, or otherwise acquiring total control over, and then liquidating a large failing bank? Is it fair to say that the Church did or would have in effect socialized the cost of major failures within the Italian banking sector?
Edit: Mixed up my kings, the Sicilian affair happened under Henry III in the 1250's, Edward's father, however the papacy was recalling funds from this event in Edward's reign.
I had to read a lot of tax records under Edward I a few years ago and I have seen a case of a merchant receiving the rights to receive revenue from certain lands as repayment for loans, though they would also have to pay taxes to the crown. That said, I saw this happen in the 13th century, so I can't say much for the colonial period. Of course, I'm not sure as to the frequency of this type of repayment, but it did happen.
I recall reading something before about how bankers would loan funds to both sides in a war and require whoever won to pay both sides debts so it was a guaranteed win either way. Is there any truth to that?
I think I was a bit unclear, that's my mistake. The Papal recall I mentioned refers to the pope's relation to Edward I rather than the Riccardi. This includes his attempted crusade which transferred funds from England to the pope, which the Riccardi significantly contributed to. There was also another event which the pope was taking funds from in this recall. This was the Sicilian affair (Don't have the exact date on me) in which with the pope's help and Edward's money/military, Edward would become ruler of Sicily. Obviously, neither of these close to happening and all that happened was Edward simply wasting a lot of resources to the Papacy.
I'm not an expert in Medieval banking, however in the case of Italian banking in England, likely not to that great an extent. The prominent families attached to the crown would've had so many benefits from the monarchs that there wasn't much incentive to covertly support enemies in war. I say this in respect to other states on the British Isles but the Riccardi did have relations with France, though war between the two states ultimately ruined the family so there's not much to see in this affair.
I'm saying that in this case, the king didn't simply leverage his authority to refuse to repay the loans like Cersei in Game of Thrones, nor did the crown simply destroy them by asking for too much. What happened was that the Riccardi weren't large enough to meet Edward I's demands, and as a result, lost their privileged position as the foremost banking family in England, which ultimately led to to their later downfall.
Edit 2: I just remembered that Cersei pays her debts to the iron bank in the show, however she refuses to in the books so my point stands.
I don't know of any direct modern conversion rates but can show the scale of some currencies during the 13th century. A medieval English pound at the time was 240 pence, which were essentially small silver coins. Given the size of a lot of these transactions (Think thousands of pounds, meaning over 200,000 silver coins), paper loans were used, and sometimes the coins were indeed transported across the country. I do know of the conversion from French livres tournois, in which Phillip's seizures amounted to 221,000, which relates to £11,050, so that would be 20:1. On marks, they were just another division for the English currency system at the time, at 2/3 of a pound.
You mention £'s (or ₤'s?) , marks, and florins, and I know working out what they are in modern day money is very hard, but is there any way of knowing what they were worth relative to each other?
So the pope's funds didn't necessarily bankrupt the the family. Sure, it did intensify the strenuous situation the Riccardi were in at the time, but they were still okay for the most part. It was Edward's war against France that began the over borrowing that the comment above mentioned.
I might as well get into the Riccardi's fall to explain. When Edward I attempted to receive his loans for the war with France, the Riccardi did not have enough funds. However, the lack of funds and over borrowing did not end the family in themselves. Following this, Edward practically threw them out of the wool trade, which was the most important good for these merchants to export. What followed was that the Riccardi lost their privileges to receive customs dues and had almost all their wool seized. This is what directly finished the Riccardi's power in England. It is important to note that despite all the money that the Riccardi had loaned out at this time, and after they had lost popularity with the crown, at the time of the wool seizure, the Riccardi still maintained largest amount of wool assets over any competitor.
Again, the extant of my knowledge ends at Edward i, though I am aware that English monarchs to the 16th century still relied on the economic model of Henry iii and Edward i, so it’s likely that they were fairly similar.
Sorry, I'm not too versed on Medieval banking, this is just the niche topic I know a bunch about. However, usury in Christian bankers is a pretty popularly asked topic on this sub, so I think a search will give several questions that have the answers you want.