THC might be legal in your state, but so is alcohol. You still can't drive while under the influence of a controlled substance to the extent your normal faculties are impaired.
They don't need to find marijuana in the car, just like they don't need to find a beer bottle in the car.
That isn't the question. The question is whether THC was contributing to your impairment at the time. Much like DUI based on alcohol isn't just "drunk" - you didn't need to be "high" to still have impairing effects from THC. You don't have to be high or falling down drunk. Even if you're just a little impaired, you're still impaired.
An appeal isn't the place to introduce new evidence. An appeal is to argue that legal decisions made in the case were incorrect.
Appeals aren't available to you because you didn't like the outcome of the trial. Appeals are to address a defect in the trial.
Evidence of your brain issues and PTSD at best only provide an alternative explanation for your poor FSE results. It's not inconsistent with impairment due to THC. But that evidence should have been produced at trial.
And onto your point 'what angle to take for your best defense', again, that isn't what an appeal is. An appeal would be an offense on what was wrong with the first trial, not a chance to re-argue your defense.
I did not initially introduce evidence because I did not deem it necessary, honestly. My lawyer had assured me this was going to be easy to get this case dismissed just based on lack of evidence so I didn’t gather doctors notes or anything the first time around.
And I don’t know what to tell you, they granted me my appeal so I’m appealing. It’s not that I “didn’t like “ the outcome. The outcome was wrong. I did not commit a crime by sleeping in my car.
You really want to get an attorney for this. You may or may not be allowed to introduce new evidence not on point to the reason for the defect in the original trial. Appeals are procedure based and narrowly done, where an attorney will be invaluable.
If the breath test was 0 and the blood test was clean, then the case got dropped because there's no evidence of an impairing substance. That's a critical element of DUI.
That’s what we did. The judges reasoning in your case makes no sense to me. By his logic, DNA evidence shouldn’t be considered because people were convicted without it before it was available.