Paying a lower salary to less qualified people is not discrimination. The EPA bit you're quoting is in reference to situations where men and women are performing largely the same duties but "they're not exactly the same job" is used as an excuse to pay women less, but there's no such thing as "discrimination against therapists".
We perform largely the same duties as the LPNs and nurses and are just as qualified and have nearly the same level of education as nurses and even more so than LPNs meanwhile they are making significantly more money than we are when the incentives are applied that we do not get.
My problem with this is that we are not "therapists" we are clinical specialists but unfortunately our professions name has therapist in it which to me is a way for a facility like this to try and take advantage and use that against us.
Don't get me wrong, RTs are professionals and they are the allied health experts in the respiratory system, but they do not do the same thing as nurses. Is there some overlap? Of course. Overlap is not parity.
Where I work the RTs are highly valued and make wages very similar to nurses. I would find another place to work if you dislike your management so much.
So you are telling me that as an RT you have the same job responsibilities as a nurse? Are you administering IV, IM, SQ, PR, PO medications? Titrating pressors and sedatives? Are you responsible for cleaning the patient when they are incontinent? Managing tube feeds? Placing catheters? (Urinary or venous). Placing NG or OG tubes? Interpreting invasive hemodynamic monitors? Performing full assessments of all body systems? Care plans? Responsible for educating the patient on all aspects of care, not just the respiratory system?
If the next day you worked there were no nurses and the RTs had to do it all, would that be good care for patients? Would you provide equivalent care for the whole person?
The Equal Pay Act requires that men and women in the same workplace be given equal pay for equal work. The jobs need not be identical, but they must be substantially equal. Job content (not job titles) determines whether jobs are substantially equal. All forms of pay are covered by this law, including salary, overtime pay, bonuses, stock options, profit sharing and bonus plans, life insurance, vacation and holiday pay, cleaning or gasoline allowances, hotel accommodations, reimbursement for travel expenses, and benefits. If there is an inequality in wages between men and women, employers may not reduce the wages of either sex to equalize their pay.
Are the nurses mostly men and the therapists mostly women? (Or vice versa, I suppose.) Otherwise I don't know why you keep quoting this. It is not illegal to pay different salaries for different jobs, and you yourself pointed out that nurses do many tasks that you do not do.
This concern is not about salary. It is about not receiving the same bonuses and incentives as the rest of the facility due to us not being considered a clinical role. Which we are.