The answer is no. I am full blooded Navajo, and a lot of the old stories, morals and rules have been passed down to me by my parents, grandparents, and great grandparents. In Navajo religion, there is a male and a female of everything (ie: rain, clouds, mists, sky, earth, animals, mountains, plants, insects, birds, trees, waters, people, etc). These male/female couples face each other in the harmonious order of the world; neither male nor female is greater than the other, but both need each other to exist. Life is created (and therefore exists) between the male and female. A baby can only be made between a man and a woman. The Gods or Holy People wrote this fundamental rule into the stars. The male is represented by the Big Dipper, and the female is represented by Cassiopeia. Directly between the Big Dipper and Cassiopeia is the North Star also known as the Fire of Life. The Big Dipper and Cassiopeia rotate around the North Star the same way a husband and wife are supposed to make a living around their Fire of Life inside their home.
In the past, deviating from this duality was a sacrilege. Men were taught to be protectors, hunters, farmers, shepherds and laborers, to do work outside of the house. Women were taught to be weavers, mothers, cooks, basket makers, etc -- work inside the house. Prior to Pueblo influence, Navajos raised their children similarly until the age of 12. Both male and female children learned the basics of both male and female duties. A girl might learn to shoot a bow, ride horses, and hunt rabbits, and a boy might learn to butcher livestock, start a fire, and cook. They learned the basics of survival. After boys and girls had their respective Puberty Ceremonies at age 12, they learned activities specific to their gender roles. The purpose of Puberty Ceremonies is to learn about life, the role of men and women, duties associated with those roles, and procreation. In the past, women were allowed to accompany their husbands to war, but the couple had to adhere to strict rules of conduct such as no teasing, laughter or sexual contact. Hunting Way was one activity where women could not participate. The reason for this is lenhy, complicated to explain, and beyond the scope of this write up.
If a hermaphrodite or intersex child was born, that was considered a shameful thing. The reason for this is because in the origin story, the hermaphrodite or Nadleeh was considered the originator of sexual perversion and wickedness. The Nadleeh was responsible for destroying the previous world. Navajo families from the past used to leave hermaphrodite babies to die in arroyos. The Navajo word for arroyo is Chashk'eh or Chahak'eh, which means In Accords to Crying -- a reference to the cries of the abandoned child. When twins were born, because both babies could not be cared for at the same time, the weaker of the twins was similarly abandoned in arroyos. Since the 1940's, Navajo people have started saying that hermaphrodites and twins are holy.
I think the tonal flip was due to influence from the missionaries, U. S. military, and Indian agents. Prior to these, Navajos partook in practices such as polygamy, revenge killing, and clan wars. Then again, World War 2 was when a significant number of young men left the reservation to fight in the war. After they returned, lots of cultural changes occurred.
This article from the Navajo Times also sheds light on the former practice of abandoning the weaker twin:
The classification of religious ceremonies reflects this duality: Hoozhooji (Blessing Way) reflects the female, and Nayee'eek'ehji (In Accords to Fear Surrounding Way also known as Monster Way) reflects the male. Blessing Way ceremonies are about nurturing and growth, positive things in life (ie: First Laugh Ceremony, Wedding Ceremony, Conception Ceremony, etc). These are often things done inside the house. Monster Way ceremonies are about protection (ie: War Dance, Hunting Way, Evil Chasing Rites, Scalp Dance, Ghost Way, Lightning Way, Bear Way, etc). These are things done typically outside of the house.
Maybe Im being sensitive but everyone is speaking of the Navajo in past tense. This is still very much a contemporary conversation, theyre still here and they still do.
A very fair point and one which should be kept in mind for everyone reading as there is a common strain in discourse on indigenous peoples to consign them to the past, even if unintentionally. But I would note that due to the nature of the subreddit, the phrasing isn't necessarily incorrect as discussion here is limited to the historical practices within Navajo culture.
The last documented case of a hermaphrodite child being abandoned (that I know of) can be found in Gladwell Richardson's autobiography: Navajo Trader. In it, Richardson described how a man named Jack Gambol adopted an abandoned hermaphrodite child in the 1920's.