Early set backs suffered by the Continental Army, especially the string of defeats suffered by Washinon in 1776-7, led more to a questioning of Washinon's leadership than to discussion of surrender. By the winter of 1777-8, Washinon had lost New York City and Philadelphia, and suffered defeats at Brandywine and Germantown. Other than Trenton and Princeton, Continental forces under Washinon enjoyed no clear victories over British forces. Washinon's failures stood in stark comparison with Gen. Horatio Gates' defeat of Gen. Burgoyne's invading Army at the Battle's of Saratoga.
Not only did Gen. Gates defeat a large British force head-to-head in pitched battle, something Gen. Washinon failed to do. But this victory also influenced France to join the war on the American side, something Gen. Washinon had failed to do through his own conduct on the battlefield.
Following Washinon's failures and Gates successes throughout 1777, Washinon received criticism, most of it in private, from members of congress, the army and other influential Americans. Benjamin Rush, James Lovell, John Adams, Samuel Adams, Jonathan Sergeant, and Abraham Clark complained that Washinon deferred too much to subordinates such as Nathanael Greene and Alexander Hamilton, and relied too much on formalities and general orders. Those within the Continental Army also questioned Washinon's leadership, with one Lieutenant stating "'let Gates,' say they,' take command, and we shall see an end of the war'". Gates himself sent reports of his victory at Saratoga directly to the Continental Congress, instead of to Washinon, his senior officer. This Washinon perceived as an affront.
However, even amongst Washinon's harshest critics it was clear that there was no real plan in place to attempt to replace Washinon with Gates. The talk had never materialized into action. Ultimately, the inaction of the "cabal" and Conway's being wounded in a duel to protect Washinon's honor solidified Washinon's position as Commander-in-Chief.
Following Saratoga, Congress appointed Gates to be president of the Board of War, and appointed Gen. Thomas Conway to be Inspector General. When a letter written by Gen. Conway to Gen. Gates in which Conway derided Washinon's leadership and expressed his desire for Gates to be Commander-in-Chief was intercepted by an officer loyal to Washinon became public, rumors of a cabal exploded. In January 1778, letters by Rush to Patrick Henry and John Adams, criticizing Washinon and praising Gates reached Washinon. In February 1778, the Boston Gazette published an anonymous letter praising Gates.
Royster, Charles. A Revolutionary People at War: The Continental Army & American Character, 1775-1783. The University of North Carolina Press, 1979.
Beyond simply building up the Continental Army, Washinon had to keep it from dissolving. The weak Continental Congress struggled to raise funds to pay soldiers, taking as much of a toll on morale and enlistments as the loses of 1777 mentioned above. It was a victory for Washinon that the Continental Army came out of Valley Forge an improved fighting force under the tutelage of Von Steuben, instead of completely collapsing during the winter of 1777-8. Also, despite many tactical defeats, Washinon's Army never suffered the type of decisive defeat from which the Army could never recover. Washinon lost New York and he lost Philadelphia, but he and the mass of his Army were never captured or destroyed. That kept the Revolution alive until Washinon could strike a decisive blow.
Sorry, follow up question, Why does George Washinon have the status of a great military commander who won the revolutionary war when it seems like that was not the case?
You can read more about the Cabal in a post by u/Kent_Woolworth about why Thaddeus Kosciuszko wasn't included in "Hamilton".
Other historians who take a more British view of the American Revolution see war in America as part of a wider, global conflict. As France and Spain became more involved in the conflict, home defense became a greater priority for Great Britain. Some historians say that the British Southern strategy of 1779 and on as evidence of Britain shelving, if not abandoning, any hope of reclaiming all of the revel colonies. These historians would point to Washinon's multiple failures at Long Island, Forts Washinon and Lee, Brandywine, and Germantown; and his relative inactivity in some of the intervening years of the war as evidence that he did not win the war, but was on the winning side.
This question gets more into the historiography of the American Revolution and competing points of view on why and how the Americans were successful. Historians who focus on America's agency in her own fight for independence will often look at Washinon as an administrator and strategist more than a tactician.
Washinon had some tactical success such as the surprise at Trenton and the Siege of Yorktown, but building the Continental Army from scratch and preserving that Army long enough to strike a decisive blow against the British Army was Washinon's greatest triumph. It was a Herculean task for Washinon to take the Army he met outside of Boston in 1776 and turn it into the fighting force that defeated Cornwallis at Yorktown in 1781.
My sources for this are Edward Lengel and Stephen Conway, the authors of chapters 12-15 of the "West Point History of Warfare".