The new lease does not invalidate the old lease unless it is written in there. They cannot make you leave the old apartment before the end of the lease.
Is there anything that I can do besides just try and talk to the leasing office? I have combed through the contract to make sure there is no such agreement that lets them change the lease end date on a lease transfer.
Their agreement with a third party is not your business. I like to say: "That sounds like an issue not an ish-me.".
You can send them a letter via certified mail if you want, telling them to pound sand. Its probably not necessary, but I would notify them that you will be moving out as per the conditions in your lease by email or text at minimum. Don't do it through a phone call, you want a paper trail.
wow.. that's quite an extreme step - I hope it doesn't come to that, and we can resolve this issue amicably. I think that it would just involve them admitting to their mistake with the people that would be taking over our current apartment, and making some arrangements for them to move in after we've moved out.
Furthermore, if the landlord or anybody else tries to enter your rental do not allow them access and call the police emergency line (911) if they do not immediately cease their attempted entry. Tell them that somebody is breaking into your home. Start recording once you hang up the phone. Do not open the door, and do not confront them. Wait for the police. Have your documents ready to show the police. (Lease, communication with your LL, ID, etc).
Yes, you should try to resolve it amicably, but they are acting pretty shady. They may try to push you around. Quote your lease. If they still ask you to move out early, offer to do it for some cash, or a discount if you want. If you don't want to cash for an early move, obviously don't offer that.
Just remember that they don't get to make up the rules of the game. The contract you have has already established them, along with your local laws. If you're going to continue renting i would read all of them to get a basic understanding of your rights.