From what I can tell, there is no minimum scheduling notice in Iowa. If they are legally allowed to change your schedule without notice (which DOL site says most places are), I'm sure they're allowed to post the schedule whenever they feel like it. Is it professional? Absolutely not. If you work for the school district, I would bring this up with the Super and mention that you don't like finding out your start time hours before the shift. I assume you're not part of the teacher's union, but if you are, I'd bring it up with them first.
Also, I'm working for all schools. So my schedule is always unpredictable, and I rely on the Google docs timesheet to know where I'm going and when. It's her job to fill it out for me, and was it wrong of me to just not come in when I wasn't scheduled to??
I'm sorry, but what can I do in this situation? They just told me how busy they were and had no time to update it but they are my boss, and that's part of their JOB.
So, I checked my schedule this morning and saw it still hadn't been updated. So, I took that as "no work, don't come in." Like many of the other places I've worked at have done. My boss messaged me later, and basically put all the blame on me for not coming in, but then had the audacity to say they were "too busy to update the timesheet" which is why it was blank. No text, no call, no update on timesheet, nothing. Yet its... my fault?
It really isn't my fault tbh as I "didn't check the schedule." Because I did,several time, haha. Just nothing was put on it, at all for today or tomorrow. It is poor management, and the only reason I'm concerned is because I'm only in my 90 days as I started at the beginning of last month. So essentially, I have no rights protecting me for something that isn't my fault. I love Iowa...
Like I said, Iowa for at will employees. If you are unionized, you need to speak with your union rep. If you are at will, yes, it is your fault that you didn't call (stupid I know). Again, while it's legal, it's not professional and you need to take this up with your Superintendent or someone above your boss's head. This is not something that can be fixed with a lawyer. This is an HR issue. I'm sorry your job sucks, but there's no illegal activity going on. Just poor management.