In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
: Please make sure that you allow at least 10 minutes to pass between each submission, and submit no more than 5 articles within a 24 hour period. This is so that other Redditors have the opportunity to submit content and have it visible to /r/politics users. Deleted posts are included in this rule. Moderator removed posts are not. Queue flooding will result in moderator action against offending accounts.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Hi Melodic_Oil_2486. Thank you for participating in /r/Politics. However, has been removed for the following reason(s):
If you overhear someone say something racist/sexist and aren’t outraged, then you’re racist/sexist. Same concept here.
i watched them? but I'm just saying that he didn't go out to the rioters and tell em to storm the capitol, but i do agree that theres a lot of people who made it worse.
I think the most shocking thing about Jan. 6 is how easily it happened—that the GOP enabled this at all levels of American politics, and now how they show open disdain for the US Constitution and it’s values.
The GOP was very much at fault over Jan 6, very embarrassing that it ever occurred, caused the death of a officer, but i don't see how thats much worse than funding an actual war, and causing millions to either die or go hungry, and Ukraine has no economy now.
To call a whole political party fascist isn't exactly my route in debating, but i do agree that the GOP doesn't act in good faith for the people of the United States, nor does any politician.
It's been almost 2 years since the Jan 6 incident, yet there's no definitive evidence Trump incited violence, kinda an embarrassing way to stop Trump's campaign for 2024.
if you go on his Twitter, the last tweets, on Jan 6 2020, say, quote "I am asking for everyone at the U.S. Capitol to remain peaceful. No violence Remember, WE are the Party of Law & Order – respect the Law and our great men and women in Blue. Thank you" Donald J Trump's Twitter.
roughly 2 hours after the protesters started the walk twords the capitol, the tweet was at 3:13 Note: trump was still at his speech for some time, roughly 20 minutes.