How sure are you that the woman who called you was actually from the credit union? It may be worth calling the credit union to check the state of the sale.
I’m pretty sure that she is from the credit union but I don’t think she is as neutral as you would expect a banking employee to be. The credit union only does work with members of a specific union and my husband has a 15yr friendship with this clerk and is influential in the union as a whole.
I am trying to get the car out of my name and into his and his daughter’s name because their credit is so bad that they would not be able to buy her a car if I took mine back. That is also why we have to do this through the credit union. My worry is that the union is stalling because the underwriter won’t approve the transfer and if they find out before me that the sale is not going through they will destroy the car or hide it etc.
Can you go to the credit union to find out what's going on? Or go over thats clerks head. As a party to the sale you have a right to know what the hold up is.
Let me explain a little more. My husband is a member of a trade that is considered a last chance job. The trade union has a credit union set up for their members so that they have access to banking services that they wouldn’t have access to otherwise due to bad credit or other issues. Each local has a small office of about 3 women and one tradesman over them that handles everything except for the underwriting which is outsourced to a central office. My husband had a high position in the union and has been a member for over 20 years so there is literally no one at the credit union that he is not friends with.
Look into shelters and Department of human services. If you're in states each town has an office that helps with stamps, health care. Also find a women's shelter, only women's, they're for abused women and are safer. If you can go in the police department and sit and talk to someone. Keep updating. People on reddit has suggestions for help.