Just wait for the lawyer to call back. He's likely giving a vague answer because their isn't a lot their mom can do about this, dad is allowed to make his own parenting decisions on his own time.
When or whether a child should be permitted to shave their legs is largely a parenting call. Unless there is a medical reason for the child to shave, there's no serious harm to the child either way. So the custodial parent is likely going to have the say on whether the child is permitted to shave in their home. At your house, the child can shave. At her dad's house, the child will not be permitted to shave and any shaving implements will likely be confiscated and returned to you.
For what it's worth, I have gotten wife on board with the understanding that dad's home is going to have different rules and parenting. He refuses to have any sort of healthy co-parenting situation or communication. So many things we just have to accept will be different over there and aren't worth challenging. She has come to accept this, and very rarely will pick a battle to dispute.
Thank you for your response. If this is the case, then we have to accept it, we understand that. However, is "medical" reason all the law really cares about in a situation like this? What about the potential psychological effect/damage that can be caused by the embarrassment the child suffers over a lack of basic hygiene/maintenance situation that is standard to females in our society?
You seem to think that the only acceptable response to peer pressure when it comes to appearances is to allow the child to conform. That simply is not the case. There are a wide range of responses to a child becoming aware of societal norms that a parent may choose to take, and many of them are acceptable.
However, this one is extremely difficult to swallow because it's affects her OUTSIDE of their home. She should not have to suffer the effects and discomfort of not being able to shave.
Women don't need to shave their legs. Plenty of women choose not to. It's NOT basic hygiene. It's not even terribly common in some areas of the world. Entire religions prohibit it. It's a choice, and a choice that women are pressured to conform to due to societal expectations. But there's no more harm done to a girl who is prohibited from shaving her legs than a girl who is prohibited from wearing stylish clothing or any other peer-pressure related appearance choice. You're not going to be able to claim that disallowing a child from shaving inflicts serious harm on them when plenty of religious families in the US have this very same prohibition with no serious damage to the children.
If you have a reputable answer to the original question, that is appreciated. I'm not sure where you're trying to take this otherwise.
So again, if there is nothing we can do about it, we will have to accept it. That said, I wanted to make sure we did our due diligence in finding out if we have any recourse over this or not.
It's the same as dad having modesty standards for what she wears outside the home. Or not allowing her to wear make up. Yes, those will impact her life outside the home, but they are still solidly parenting calls.
Many, many 11 year old girls in this country are not allowed to shave their legs. Some because they come from families where a religious belief prohibits shaving. Some because they come from families where the parents do not believe it is appropriate for 11 year olds to shave yet. But there is no known harm done to a child whose parents set standards for appearance that are different than the standards set by wider society. Largely, it's believed their are pluses and minuses either way.
I'm not sure you read my entire response. Because I didn't say anything that implied any of this wasn't the case. I also made the point that here in the country we live in, our social standards are that women shave their legs. It's almost as if you've gone off on a tangent here and you're now missing the issue. You're also now on the verge of implying that you are dictating how someone should or shouldn't feel. She is an 11 year old girl going through puberty, becoming aware of social norms, and feeling embarrassed over the situation. If you are implying she shouldn't be, well, not sure where you're going beyond that.
YOU feel the appropriate call is to let her shave. The father disagrees. Neither one of you is objectively correct. It's purely an opinion on how you feel it is best to parent, and the child will not be harmed either way. So it is unlikely the court will step in except to say that you are both entitled to parent in the way you see fit during your custodial time.
Look, we have already made it absolutely clear to the child involved that she shouldn't ever feel she needs to do something just because everyone else does it, and that that shouldn't be the reason she wants to shave. I haven't mentioned this because this goes beyond what any of your business is. That said, after nearly a full year, she wanted to shave. She felt embarrassed about it, she felt ready to take on the responsibility, and she felt better afterward.
Stop trying to act like an 11 year old has full control over emotions and the things she's feeling. She is entitled to her feelings, as you are yours. However, I did not come here to debate or explain any of this to you. I came with a specific question. I have now deleted my post because I shouldn't have to deal with this when looking for an answer to my question.
Edit: your LAST paragraph is literally the only response that should have ever been left here. That may very well be the case, however, I have no way to know this until I ask. The rest of essentially everything you've offered in your responses are just entirely out of place.
NAL, I understand the self conscious thing, but most woman go often without shaving for one week. And for the time being don't send any supplies with her when she goes to her dad's, however do make sure that he doesn't shame the kid for wanting to shave.
We won't be sending more of course, we only did so the first time so she had consistent tools in both houses. We did not anticipate a full refusal like this.
As for your first point, yes, that is true, however that is by their choice to not shave. But to not be allowed to shave when you want to, to avoid embarrassment, that's a whole different thing.
Also, I realize many females can get away without shaving for a decent bit of time. But daughter did have significant regrowth from just the week, and couldn't wait to leave softball practice to get home to shower and shave. She verbally expressed her discomfort and embarrassment. It was painful to hear.
sigh. I wish I could explain how awful of a co-parenting situation it was. I can't say much, because it will of course be our point of view and bias, and that isn't fair. I will say this much. He is a good father and I am not attempting to knock him, judge him, or make him out to look like a bad parent. I will respond to the first question with "absolutely he cares about the well being of his daughter.
Doesn't the father care about the mental wellbeing of his daughter? The way you phrase it makes it sound an important thing to your daughter. What exactly are the fathers objections? Does he think it is dangerous? Can you have a sit down conversation with him, mom and stepmom and talk this over? Not everything needs legal action (learning this at law school currently).
That said, he requires all communication through email. He refuses to allow phone calls to talk about things, meet ups/sit downs etc. We have requested theseamy, many times. We have our suspicions as to why, but I will keep them to myself as they are not factual and only here-say. I will say, there is NO good or even understandable reason as to why things are this way.
Anyway, the only expressed reason is because "she is too young to shave". No valid points or reasons have been mentioned. The first several times mom asked dad, it was just a response of "no". It required pulling of teeth to get the reason of "too young" from him. Believe me, I wish I could understand or know any reasoning beyond this. I wish to sweet baby Jesus we could have a healthy co-parenting relationship. Hell, I wish we could BBQ and hangout together and talk like adults do. We can't even get them to agree to have a birthday party for her together. Dad and stepmom have their family and two additional kids, and don't want anything to do with us. And that's fine, that's their right. But come on, at least communicate and compromise here. This stuff is painful to watch happen!
Ugh, I can just feel your frustration through this post. This is a though situation and I appreciate you not wanting to gossip about your kids bio father, that's Nobel. I have just compliments for your attitude.
Thank you very much for your response. I believe that to be good advice, as that is actually how the majority of the current parenting agreement is worded.
One recourse I've read about is possibly setting up a meeting with the bio dad and lawyers etc, offer to let it be documented. Make good faith bids and always add the phrase "for the wellbeing of kid" or "to talk about well being with kid". This over time makes you and your wife seem like an invested parent and if he keeps refusing only puts him in bad faith with any judge.
I decided to delete the post, as just by the other comment thread in here, it seemed to be straying from the original question and felt like this just may not have been the right place to ask. Not because I am not getting the answers I want to hear, but because I'm not interested in having to deal with the debate of shaving legs, haha. Anyway, I mentioned this because I'm not sure if you will even get to see this response since the post is deleted, but I am hoping you will, as I wanted to thank you for the advice and effort you made in your response. Thank you!