It's probably not illegal for you to add them. But it could go against the custody order - we don't know for since since we don't have access to the full text of the order. While you personally are not bound by that order your wife is, so any issues you possibly create would only affect her. If I were in your shoes I would not add them without having a lawyer review the order and give the ok to do so.
Health coverage is a joint decision between parents, which is outlined in their agreement. There may be benefits to changing it, but ultimately you'll want to make sure that your wife agrees and that it is better for her sons.
Further, by adding them it could get them dropped from their current insurance plan since insurance companies do coordinate to not pay out double benefits. If this causes any issues for the father then that could lead to relationship issues but that's beyond the scope of this sub.
If there is compelling reason to change, have her lay out her reasons to the ex. If he doesn't agree, weigh the benefit of your coverage against the cost of fighting it in court (money and emotion).
Nothing illegal but you might be paying for coverage you won't receive since he would be considered the primary and your health insurance could deny claims stating it was the responsibility of his coverage.
The wife is currently paying a fairly small amount for Ordinary Medical (NOT child support) on a monthly basis. The father waived his right to child support in the custody order.
We have tried discussing the topic with him previously, but he seems to be quite solid in his idea that he must provide insurance for the children due to the court order. However, the court order only states that he must aquire and maintain coverage for the children. It does not state that the mother is unable or not allowed to provide health coverage as well.
You want to provide for your step sons. Do you think their father wants to do the same? How do you think it makes him feel for another man to tell him that his contribution is inadequate and a new dad's contribution is better? He might not be ready to accept this in a factual basis right now. He will fight you based on the emotion.
He may be more willing to have a reasonable discussion that way andaybe next year is the time to make the change.
So logically it makes sense and you m ay have a decent legal argument (consult an attorney to know for sure. They will charge $$$ to fight this if you want them to do so).