The difference between a revolt and a revolution is success. If the American revolution had failed, it would be referred to as something along the order of the "Colonial Revolt of the late Eighteenth century.".
I would add that also the insurrection was not revolutionary. It did not support the collapse of old systems and creation of new ones, instead it sought to preserve the tyrannical old systems of slavery.
If the Southern insurrection had succeeded, it would have been referred to with terms that described its finality/success: the Southern War of Independence or something along that line, and millions of African Americans would have continued to live under the brutality of slavery. Edit: although the contrary is not implied by the statement provided, of course all sorts of brutality toward African Americans continued after the war.
Because the insurrection failed, it is referred to as a civil war - a war within a nation that existed both before and after the rebellion. The insurrection could have been referred to with any number of terms, but not one like "the war of independence," which implies independence was achieved. Independence was not achieved, so it is designated with a term that describes the complete failure of the effort.
A "civil" war may carry a connotation of civilian versus civilian, but I don't think that has always been the way the term has been used. Certainly in the case of the American and English civil wars one can argue for organized armies or popular, civilian contests - there are elements of both in both these examples. Sorting all that out just seems to stir up more mud from the bottom of the pond, making it all the more difficult to sort out any nuance that can be used to understand the differences in the terms.
One can attempt to read nuance into the nature of the words used - and no doubt some of that nuance applies clearly - as indicated by the excellent response that just popped up by /u/Bodark43. The problem with the nuanced definitions of words is that the more we delve into subtly, the more we have to ask whether those nuances are understood by everyone else and especially by people in previous generations.
It seems to me that the clearest distinctions in the variety of terms is a matter of success or failure. After that, I'm just trying to avoid stirring up any mud.
In the purist sense of the word, you are very correct in what you say here. That said, finely hewn semantics are not often at the root of how these things are decided! The American revolution was more a colonial insurrection than a revolution - at least in the way the French were soon to apply the term. Americans did away with the crown, kept almost everything else, and then ... fell in love with the crown.
I had thought that the difference has to do with who is fighting. Civilian versus civilian as a civil war and civilian versus government as a revolution. Which would suggest that the American Revolution was indeed a revolution of colonial inhabitants ("civilians") against a government force (the army of the King) - as opposed to the civil war, thusly named because the people fighting were just groups of civilians.