In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
> Jared Beck, one of the leading attorneys representing the plaintiffs in the lawsuit told The Observer, “The standard governing the motion to dismiss requires the Court to accept all well-pled allegations as true for purposes of deciding the motion. Thus, the Court recited the allegations of the Complaint that it was required to accept as true, and in so doing, acknowledged that the allegations were well pled. Indeed, if you look at the if you look at the Complaint, you will see that all of these allegations accepted by the Court specifically rely on cite materials that are readily available in the public record, and they support the inference that the DNC and the DWS rigged the primaries.”.
Assuming we're talking about the (the attempted class action on behalf of Bernie donors filed by a pro-Trump conspiracy nut) here's the part where the judge dismisses that idea completely:
of “impartiality and evenhandedness” as a mere political promise—political rhetoric that is not enforceable in federal.
There's absolutely no "higher principle " in operation here. Just "legal" rigging of primaries that select one of only two candidates for office.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
No they didn't. It was ruled that the DNC 's internal rules are "voluntary ", meaning that said rules can be broken or changed without notice at any time, and that the DNC is not accountable to either voters or any outside oversight.
The DNC and Wasserman Schultz put forth a few different reasons why the case should be dismissed, including what you're claiming, that they have no obligation to hold fair primaries.
Well, you're entitled to that opinion. But in terms of actually running the primary, it's the judge's opinion that matters and the DNC are obligated to run a fair primary process.
No, that's the exact opposite of the ruling. The DNC can change (break) its own rules with total impunity. And in fact they did so again in 2020 with Bloomberg.
But the court rejected that claim. They dismissed the case on another claim, that the plantiffs lacked standing. Specifically, the defense found a bunch of social media posts showing that the plantiffs already thought the primary was rigged when they made their donations and so couldn't have been defrauded by the DNC's claims of fairness. The Sanders campaign sent fundraising email claiming they need donations because the DNC was unfair. Some people even donated just so they could join the lawsuit! A claim of fraud requires the plantiff to show they made the donation because of the DNC's fraudulent claims of impartiality.
The DNC doesn't prevail because it has the right to rig elections. They prevail because if you donate to a campaign to fight the DNC's corruption, you're not entitled to a refund if the DNC turns out to be corrupt.
Had, say, Bernie Sanders sued the DNC (they did sue the DNC, but not over this issue), perhaps the case wouldn've made it to trial.
But, in a sense, the plantiffs won this case, too. It was filed by Trump-supporting lawyers who managed to get this "cigar smoke backroom" quote which is still making people think the Democratic party is corrupt to their core today.
The DNC IS corrupt to the core. Funny how all the major news utterly failed to mention the lawsuit at all.