Also: get everything in writing. Don't communicate with them by phone again, only by e-mail or letter, or at least follow up every phone call with a letter or e-mail. If they call, call them back and tell them you're recording the conversation.
Go find the sales document and examine it carefully to be very sure. California gives the auto dealer just 30 days to apply for registration of a used car on your behalf. If it's rejected for some reason, they need to submit a re-application within 50 days of the sale.
buyer shall be entitled to costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred in any court action brought to collect the.
This is their risk and their problem and you have no obligation to help them solve it with your money.
A California auto dealer typically has just 10 days to assign your loan to one of their lenders when they're the ones who arrange your financing. When you pay cash or provide your own financing, that contractual provision (usually item 6 on the back of the standard retail installment sales document) doesn't apply.
Auto dealers seldom really "hold the title" of their inventory. Part of being an auto dealer is the ability to "assign" titles that have been released to you to a new owner by applying for a title and registration on their behalf. That's why you generally pay the tax and title fees to the dealership, and they tack on a couple hundred dollars to do the paperwork (a "doc fee").
I presume they're offering you a full refund. Are you 100% sure it's the dealership contacting you ?
This can happen. Sometimes dealerships will take a trade-in or auction car where the seller has a lien on it, or wasn't the actual owner, and they end up without a released title. It's a risk they're taking to keep the metal rolling and the cash flowing.
Into a 2017 Camry ? Not that I don't believe you, but how ? Did you put a new engine and transmission into it ?
That is the dealership’s problem not yours. If they sold you the car they need to fix it. Also it sounds that you can seek legal action against the dealership.
They aren't as of now, just told me that they purchased the car from an auction and now there are "issues" with the original owner, who is demanding to be returned the car.
I wonder if this is the result of someone demanding another dealership unwind their deal and return the trade-in (which that dealership has already passed through the auction).