Maskirovka (маскировка), which means disguise, concealment, or deception was actually a pretty big part of Soviet military doctrine during World War II. We don't typically think of Soviet military doctrine in those terms; indeed, 'Soviet military doctrine' as a concept during the Second World War usually conjures up a joking, 'heh heh, you mean human waves of underarmed Communists charging that well-oiled fighting machine, the Wehrmacht?' which is more associated with maskirovka's more famous sibling Deep Operations (which that description doesn't accurately describe either of course). But in fact, maskirovka was essential to Soviet military strategy and contributed not insignificantly to concealing troop movement and location, combat readiness and potential effectiveness, and probably most shockingly (given the sheer size of the Red Army), aided in launching surprise attacks.
So you've got your standard 'only regroup or move at night' there as well as 'don't obviously gather troops at the site of a planned maneuver,' but because the Soviets were such a massive military force the use of offensive feigning was likewise significantly more potent when a westward thrust from the north could require that you maneuver in such a way that you expose your southern position to a separate attack-- and if that northern thrust turned out to be maskirovka then you're in big trouble now aren't you?
Another important factor to consider here is that during the early parts of the war as experienced by the Soviet Union, the Red Army was on the back foot in a big way. Operation Barbarossa (Hitler's ill-fated attack on his de facto allies in Moscow) was more or less a surprise offensive. I qualify that statement because Stalin had reliable intelligence informing him that indeed the Germans were on the march eastward and indeed it was not simply a training exercise and indeed the Soviets needed to prepare now. Stalin didn't just ignore these requests to order immediate mobilization-- he rejected them as invalid and called their author a few impolite words to boot. \[3\].
Before adding my own two cents, though, I would also like to push back a little on aspects of /u/hamiltonkg’s answer. There are parts of it, particularly regarding the assumptions & analysis of David Hamilton’s Naval Postgraduate School thesis, which - with no disrespect intended to hamiltonkg’s recognized expertise as a flair - I find to be problematic and not reflective of the qualitative shift in English-language Soviet military studies that started in the mid 80s and accelerated in the 1990s after the fall of the USSR.1 Hamilton’s thesis contains a perceptible current of what I think we can call a sort of Orientalism - see for instance , , as well as his heavy citation of the Mongol influence claims of Pipes & Stinemetz. Don’t get me wrong - as those who are familiar with some of my previous answers on this sub may know, I am all about that strategic cultures/mentalités approach to military history. But, in this case I am cautious given the history of this type of racialized discourse in regards to Western perspectives on Russia and the Russian military (Franz Halder could have written some of the footnotes in this thesis, to be blunt about it.) Richard Pipes is also a polarizing figure in Soviet studies; the particular book quoted here (Survival is Not Enough) reads as an explicitly anticommunist polemic, seeing as it was written as policy prescription first, historical analysis second.2 I’m hesitant to reject the Mongol influence claims wholesale though, as Hamilton also cites Chris Bellamy’s RUSI article “Heirs of Genghis Khan: The Influence of the Tartar-Mongols on the Imperial Russian and Soviet Armies,” which presents the thesis in a much less racialized light. Bellamy, who is a fairly well-regarded historian of the Soviet military, traces the apparent Mongol influence through Russian military history with concrete examples, including - crucially - examples where historical Russian figures describe themselves explicitly drawing on Mongol concepts & practices.
If we view the war in the east as having three phases (defense, attrition, offense), maskirovka is shown to actually have contributed quite heavily to turning the tide of war against Hitler's Wehrmacht (obviously including a whole litany of other factors). The first stage defense occurred up until around about the Battle of Moscow broke out (September 1941, 4 months into the war) when the Nazis were basically on an effectively unchallenged march into Soviet territory, the second stage attrition can be placed as having begun with the Battle of Stalingrad (July 1942, 13 months into the war) when the so-called blitzkrieg lightning strike had faltered and the Nazis had to face the harsh reality of a long war against the Soviet Union, and the third stage offense can be represented by the beginning of Germany's Operation Citadel and the Battle of Kursk (July 1943, 25 months into the war) when the German eastern offensive was halted once and for all and the slow crush of inevitable defeat began as the Red Army regained more and more of their former territory during their roughly two-year countermarch back to Berlin. Maskirovka was thus, far more impactful in the second and third phases I enumerated above for obvious reasons.
Once the Soviets had reached the attrition phase of the rough timeline I provided above, they employed dedicated staff to innovate, manage, and execute their maskirovka activities:
>More specifically \[...\] characterized by a transition from the employment of individual, separate deception measures to the use of a whole complex of measures, orchestrated to support large-scale operations. Of particular importance in allowing this transition was the fact that the Soviets now had more time to prepare their plans which, in turn, became much more detailed and sophisticated. One other important accomplishment during this stage was the creation of special staffs to plan and oversee the implementation of deception operations. (see pp. 51, Hamilton).
Why this obsession with surprise and concealment? I personally found the chapter title Soviet Mindset: Proclivity for Deception? to be hilarious the first time I read it, but the point remains-- did the Soviets harbor some special preference for maskirovka techniques?
Maskirovka went beyond the army as well. The Soviet Air Force was absolutely ravaged during the first phase of war with something to the effect of 70% of their total air power rendered unusable in the first six months of the war due to overwhelming Nazi air superiority. Thus, protecting what air resources they had became absolutely essential while replacements were constructed. This resulted in, as impractical as it sounds, fake forests being set up by the Red Army to conceal the location of both landing and storage facilities as well as physical aircraft. That means that actual full-grown trees were uprooted, transported, and temporarily planted in order to hide Soviet war materiel. Fake trees were made and employed as well. Just imagine being assigned to the tree-relocation or tree-creation unit. I suppose it might be a better objective than those whose orders sent them to the frontlines but nevertheless.
On the subject of making fake stuff, the Soviets would dig fake bomb craters along with placing fake rubble and fake wreckage to make those airfields that the tree units hadn't gotten to yet appear disused. They took it a step further. They would make fake airfields and then purposely leave them unconcealed in places they knew the Germans were doing flyovers.
These fakes became so commonplace that simply having them wasn't enough, the Germans weren't buying it. The Soviets had to deploy actual, human resources to them to aid them in their deception! You may think these fake airfields and outposts were a big old pain to set up but the Red Army became quite proficient at doing so, and by the end of the war almost every single airfield and outpost had at least five fakes in its immediate area. Staffed, electrified, 'guarded.'.
So what did that actually look like? Pavel Melnikov, who was a divisional commander during WWII (one of the youngest as well considering he was born February 1919, making him 22 when the war broke out in the Soviet Union) who went on to become the chief of the M.V. Frunze Military Academy in 1978, described early use of maskirovka thus:
By this point, you must be wondering why the Soviet Union dedicated such significant resources to maskirovka and its associated farces. Most military doctrine uses broad terminology, ideals, and similar concepts to frame its strategy but not glorious Soviet Union. If you thought Lenin's and Trotsky's writing was pedantic just try to get through the Soviet Military Encyclopedia which defines the importance of maskirovka thus:
This position, stated above by Hamilton, expressed by Richard Pipes in his seminal 1984 Survival is Not Enough, and further explored by Martin (see pp. 22-23) points a reader to look at the history of pre-Soviet warfare to understand the mentality which privileges such techniques-- especially given the abundant manpower of the Soviet Union which ought to catalyze perhaps a doctrine more focused on overwhelming a numerically inferior enemy (a technique actually employed to much horrific unneeded death against the Finns in the Winter War of 1939).
Hamilton, David; Deception in Soviet Military Doctrine and Operations; Naval Postgraduate School (1986) \\].
As /u/hamiltonkg notes, the Soviets integrated deception or maskirovka into their military doctrine at a very foundational level, to a much greater extent than their contemporaries. There is much to be said on the use of deception in other WWII militaries, to say nothing of the other four thousand or so years of historical warfare. But, maskirovka and operational art are what I know, so other flairs will have to tackle those worthy subjects.