100% and to add: Sometimes air defense systems training requires shooting missiles. But that is done in a safe manner to ensure such accidents do not happen. A lot of NATO countries use a training facility in Cyprus for example where missiles can be safely shot out into the Mediterranean.
Anyways, one of the things I saw mentioned about this on reddit is that the particular air defense rocket that hit Poland lacks a self destruction mechanism, I'm assuming that's common nowadays, and allows to remotely destroy a AD rocket if it misses something or goes rogue.
I've been following this war since I have an interest in military history and things (which makes it kinda morbid tbh) and because I hate Putin funding what amounts to neo fascism, so my credentials are of someone that os very vaguely aware of stuff rather than completely clueless, take me as a girl sharing gossip.
Ukraine has taken considerable efforts to do a military reform ever since Crimea (IIRC it was named something like "desovietization") showed the UA to be kinda bad, in that they took efforts to decrease and mitigate corruption, improve organization, modernize equipment....they even changed the uniforms AFAIK (and I don't mean camouflage, I'm taking about far more meaningless stuff like their berets).
In saying what I'm trying to communicate is that Ukraine is probably maintaining these weapons fairly well, quite possibly better than Russia, especially with western aid.
I do wonder how impressive you could make one of those missiles if you replaced the warhead with fireworks.
Seems to be the justification. Yes Ukraine launched it, but it was in response to a Russian attack (self defense). The fact that the missile went off course and landed somewhere else speaks more to the shitty build quality of the Soviet missiles than the aiming ability of the Ukranians. They'll get more modern air defense out of this.
Likely the build quality and the desperate need for more. They could have been extra stock from other countries that Ukraine just had to trust was working as they likely didn't have the maintenance schedules and it isn't like the USSR was famous for testing to make sure it was made correctly.
It's enough to destroy or fell another flying missile, and prob at \some distance too (I doubt these are basically guided gyro jets and just slam into the intercepted missile).
Might be a thing to do at new years eve after this stupid war is done and Russian soldiers are kicked out of Ukraine.
For real, I dunno if it is a quirk of translating Russian to English, but whenever something bad has happened to either Ukraine or the west in this, the spoke people have an almost manchild tone to it, saying stuff along the lines of "now the children know what happens when adults get serious".