i did read news, where there was a minister recently died suddenly, maybe its this country. we'll at least they're still in one piece. for everyone, reason, will to survive is different. i believe not many will choose the harder path. & outcome of Ukraine choosing same path as Belarus. have to see what happens.
Bullshit. Luka sold his country to the devil to save his own ass. Remember that he called Daddy Putin for help to be rescued from the 2020 Belarus protests after his own people were tired of his dictatorship. Putin "helped", alright, but Putin's help has a habit of not leaving after overextending its welcome. The "Russian invasion" Luka talks about already happened, Luka just surrendered without firing a shot. Putin tried pulling the same shit in Kazakhstan in early 2022, until he was kicked out by China (the irony... even Xi is tired of Putin's imperialist aggression.).
So, fuck Luka. He has no moral high ground. He didn't get friendly with Russia to save Belarus, he did it to save himself, condemning his country to invasion and oppression in the process.
If Ukraine so far manages to push Russia back, imagine how much better the war would have went for it, had Belarus allied with Ukraine in a united front against Russia, rather than directly support Putin with territory and weapons (and possibly soldiers, too, now that Putin grabs Luka harder and harder by the balls.) The West would have also been even more supportive from day 1, because it'd be clear Putin is going after Eastern Europe as a whole, rather than just "one country full of Nazis" as his propaganda claims.
He and his late foreign minister Makei should’ve taken communication with the West and neutrality route seriously instead of aligning more with Russia. Belarus for a time had a position where they helped mediate the conflict in Ukraine in 2014, criticized the annexation of Crimea, allowed NATO access to command centers during exercises, and sought to open communication with the West for investment. After the 2020 protests, it just went downhill from there. Makei could’ve supported the opposition and align Belarus more with the EU, but chose to support Luka. Even now during the Ukraine war, Belarus is seen as a co-aggressor with Russia, therefore a neutral position and dialogue with the West is impossible now.
Putin has been terrorizing the West with right wing propaganda for years, which has led to a lot of unrest and uprisings. So he sows discord and then swoops in. Case in point: it’s well documented that the NRA has been funneling Russian money into Republican campaigns for a while now.
There is a very real possibility that we would all be a lot better off and living in a more peaceful world had Putin not rained fire and hatred on the rest of us (both Democrats and republicans, left and right, all sides of the political spectrum).