It's a legal problem for the company that the paychecks didn't go through: the idea of cutting employees an additional check to tide them over is them making a good faith effort to live up to their obligations.
In Florida, it would be legal for them to withhold pay from future paychecks when there has been an overpayment (as would be the case here once the direct deposit clears, if employees also cash their checks).
There are also some employees refusing a check. I'm assuming since the option to take a check is available, they would not be able to file a suit with the labor union for late-paid wages?
But if this is a one-time incident, I find it unlikely that anyone would be able to get punitive damages from the company in court.
In the end, it doesn't really matter why the pay is late, no excuse is acceptable. If it becomes a pattern, they could be required to pay punitive damages to lots of people.
It certainly raises some red flags. If it becomes a pattern I can see people escalating the matter. They have a contract with the city that they are obligated to have a certain number of employees, and this move puts them on thin ice as it is. It's a well established business here, so this seems like a very odd oversight for them to make.
True, thats a good point. They have been having staffing issues, and because of all this the people who are left are quitting in droves. I don't think anyone is really interested in taking up a suit. I think the lying about why pay is late (telling every branch it's another branches fault) is what has people in an uproar. Thanks for taking the time to read and respond!
Ok thanks! I don't think double pay is what anyone is after, I just want to know what possible issues could arise from taking a paycheck but having to 'pay back' the employer in either cash or a personal check, since that is what the employer is suggesting.
If this was a small business there is no way I'd agree to this as it sounds like a scam....eg paying money that hasn't fully cleared could land you negative money if both the check and the direct deposit don't clear.
Regardless, I'd be looking to filing a wage claim if this doesn't resolve today. I'd also be a bit concerned about the 'payback' scheme due to withholdings and other moneys you get 'paid' but don't get.
That's not what is being suggested, they are asking for repayment if the check clears and the direct deposit gets processed at a later date. The employee is not entitled to double pay.
My point is that the 'check clearing' is a point of risk to OP. Billions of dollars worldwide has been lost to scams taking advantage of the fact that a check doesn't actually 'clear' until days to weeks after the money hits the account.
My concern is how on earth are they going to untangle the withholdings in this scheme. If you are paid (for example) $1000, you actually only receive $1000 minus FICA-SS-Medical-Dental-401K. They aren't expecting the full 1000 right? If so this is going to lose you significant amount of money and you should submit a wage claim.