This encroaches on a difficult topic because it implies an evaluation of a range of religious texts that are approached with faith rather than academic scrutiny. Most people tell legends (narratives generally told to be believed) that deal with past times. These historical legends include etiological legends (narratives that describe the origin of things). These were honest attempts to describe the past, and in some sense, they are an early generation of the historical process. In that sense, the Vedas - just like the story of Noah (and the origin of the rainbow), for example - are historical texts.
Like all historical texts, these documents have been examined with academic scrutiny and they are often found to be wanting as historical documents. And yet, those who approach these documents with faith rather than academic scrutiny continue to find them as valid descriptions of the past or at least as having some "truth" embedded within the words of the text. The process of faith is very different from the historical process, however.
We can look at Gibbons, The Rise and Fall of the Roman Empire (1776) as both a history (a secondary source) about ancient Roman, and as a primary source that can be used to consider eighteenth-century culture and point of view. In the same way, we can look at the Vedas at an attempt to document and understand an ancient past - as a first attempt at the historical process - and as a primary source that describes religion, faith, and the society during the time when the Vedas took shape.
It is also important to point out that historical legends are often evaluated academically and are sometimes found to contain elements of truth: the Arthurian legendary cycle is history in some sense; they aren't particularly good or reliable historical texts, but there seem to be some elements of history embedded in them. Many scholars have created a field unto itself, chasing down the "real" Arthur and the "real" Camelot. Most of the Arthurian sources evaporate under the harsh light of historical evaluation, but enough survives that those who seek the core element are satisfied. This isn't always the case with historical/etiological legends: often there is no "fact" underlying the legend: the idea that there is always an element of truth beneath every legend is, in itself, an aspect of folk belief that is not entirely true. But that doesn't exclude these narratives as serving as the first attempt to describe and understand the past.
We would not look at ancient mythologies as particularly reliable descriptions of the past, but they were clearly honest attempts to achieve just that.
Essentially, in Central Africa the archetype of the culture-hero often is characterized as a hunter and warrior who leaves his homeland and on an expedition, comes across people from another land where he is invited to become a king and found a dynasty.
Hugues Legros offered an example of this in _Chasseurs d'Ivoire; une histoire du royaume Yeke du Shaba (Zaire)._.
For example, Ilunga Mbinda Kiluwe would be a prominent example of this archetype of the hunter-king.
Ditto, for a West African exmple, Sundiata Keita is said to be the son of the wandering hunter/prince Maghan Konfara.
However, Legros is writing about the Yeke kingdom in Katanga from the 1860s-1900. The kingdom was founded by the Sukuma (or sometimes called Nyamwezi) warlord Msiri who was born near lake Victoria. Msiri brought bands of musket carrying Sukuma ivory hunters with him from his homeland to the Katanga region in the 1860s to hunt ivory and transport it to the coast for profit. Pretty quickly, he and his gun-wielding followers set up a capital at Garenganze Bunkeya and demanding tribute of copper from the mines of the neighboring Sumbwa people. By the 1880s, he had an established conquest state, exporting ivory, copper and slaves to Angola and to Zanzibar in exchange for muskets and gunpowder.
We have first-person accounts of missionaries who visited Garenganze and met Msiri trying to convert him and his people to christianity (and stop the slave trade). We also have the dynastic history written by Msiri's son Mukanda Bantu in the 1910s (about 15 years after Msiri's death).
Anyway, Legros' point is that we have a historically well-attested instance that conforms to the basic outlines of the "hunter as kingdom founder" cliche. Legros' next question is, was Msiri consciously emulating the outlines of this cliche? If so, might there be other, earlier examples of adventurers emulating the culture-hero narratives they grew up with?
Two days late, but I also remembered something Jan Vansina wrote in _Oral Tradition as History_ in the context of narrative structuring of dynastic traditions:
queen without husband, we would lose some history, but the remainder would still be largely true. In short, one reasons that.