Why do you think they enforce speeding laws in that community ? Is it because people speed too much ?
The Beetle is not a notably powerful or difficult-to-drive car. So the reason for the speeding must be related to the driver's choices.
When you are impaired by drugs, or withdrawl from drugs, whether legal ones or illegal ones, it is unlawful to drive. Withdrawl or onset are not a sudden medical emergency like a stroke or diabetic crisis.
Many medications include a warning to the effect of "do not drive or operate machinery until you know how this medication will affect you". It is possible that because of your medication regimen you cannot safety drive at all.
Sober up as best you can and hire a traffic defense attorney. "I can't manage my medication" is a lousy defense, but they may be able to prevent you from getting a license suspension.
I don’t know how to manage my medication when I depend on my doctor to give me proper directions. I should have never been on such a high dosage in the first place. when I would tell him I wasn’t feeling well he said let’s try more.. there’s a lot more to the store. yes the speeding has nothing to do with it, but I was impaired and In a situation I had no control over.
I realize that impairment is a compound problem: when the judgement, reflexes, and planning skills that you need for driving are impaired, the judgement you need to make the decision not to drive is also impaired.
But exercising judgement is still an obligation that society and the law places on drivers. We don't excuse drunks who say "I was so wasted I couldn't remember where I lived".
To handle these traffic tickets, you need to approach this with contrition and facts. "I was mistreated by the cop who cited me because I was driving while badly impaired for the second time in a week" is not a defense.
"I was impaired by prescription medication that I was not taking as directed" is also not a great defense, but it's better than illegal drugs or drugs you were abusing.
If these are speeding tickets and not DUI charges, a traffic attorney may be able to get them reduced.
I am sympathetic to your struggles to get your medication balanced, I really am. I have personal sympathy because my wife is on meds that make her frequently groggy, so I have to make time to drive her places. She's irritated that she loses some independence, I'm irritated that I have to take off work, but we both recognize that it's better than having her get into collisions or get tickets.
You are not only looking at speeding fines but also a possible DUI. Whether you where intoxicated or just suffering from withdrawal is both bad. If you are in no condition to drive you are not allowed to.