I think everyone's first question upon seeing this AMA title is how on earth did you end up specialising in vasectomies?
And also, I'm just 100% the type of person who sees a tweet advertising for someone to study vasectomies and says 'heck yeah, that's me'.
Long answer: my undergrad was in English and Literature, and my masters was in 20th century (post-)colonial British history, but weirdly through both of them I ended up focusing a lot on masculinity. For example, I wrote essays on cis gay sexuality moving from queer/subversive to part of the hegemony in British media, and on the criminalisation and medicalisation of male homo- and bisexuality in Britain, Germany, and Italy during the 1920s-50s. So although I came at it through queer (and feminist) theory, I was talking about men and their sexuality a lot. The idea of looking at the 'dominant' group (most men who get vasectomies in the UK are straight, white, middle class, university educated, etc) but looking at a very under-studied aspect of their lives really appealed to me. Also probably my own experiences of father figures and masculinity made me more interested in men's choices around when to have/not have kids.
Short answer: my PhD is actually pretty unusual for humanities PhDs (in the UK anyway) because my supervisors actually drew up the project and got funding for it then recruited me onto it, rather than me pitching it to funders myself. So, in some ways, I didn't really 'decide' on the project, but obviously I had to be the kind of person who saw a recruitment thing for 'PhD student to research social history of vasectomies' and thing 'yeah, that's me!' which brings us to...
Thanks so much for doing this AMA, Ms. Grainger! I'm familiar with some of the history around the relationship between women, notions of femininity, and infertility and I was curious if your research has uncovered anything related to masculinity and men voluntarily limiting their fertility. That is, how did those who encouraged vasectomies deal with any perceived threats to a man's virility?
This is a great question, and changes a bit over time, but vasectomies start to become a bit more popular in the early 1970s (it comes on the NHS in the UK, and just widely is more spoken about), so I think that's probably the time where we can see the combination of 'older' fears about virility and masculinity with the growing encouragement to consider vasectomies. Helpfully enough, I have an advert that addresses your question almost perfectly As you can see in for vasectomies from the Daily Mirror in 1978, they literally just told people it wouldn't affect their virility.
But in more subtle ads, they tended to just emphasise how many men had gone through the procedure before, and how low risk it was. And also there was some kind of reframing of masculinity to make it like the husband was 'saving' the wife from the Pill, and that kind of thing, so it helped reaffirm their masculinity and virility.
The Church of England tended to be a bit quieter on it so I've ended up researching more about the Catholic Church, but as far as I'm aware, Church of England said in 1958 that contraception was up to the married couple to decide, and to use whatever they were most comfortable with. This meant that by the time vasectomy started becoming more popular (late 1960s and early 1970s), I think the Church of England were fairly comfortable with it - they weren't explicitly advising it from what I'm aware, but they were happy enough with it. Conversely, the Pope's 1968 Encyclical which reaffirmed the anti-abortion teachings of the Catholic Church also stated that sterilisation was 'equally condemned' (ie as sinful as abortion), whether temporary or permanent.
From that aspect, it was definitely about racial purity, but there wasn't any focus on physical features (no blonde hair blue eye promotion, for example), but much more about 'cleaning out' the lower classes.
So in Britain there was less focus on race (at least in an ethnicity form) than for example in the white supremacy of Nazi Germany, but there was a very clear class aspect. The eugenicists believed the bottom 10% or so of society were an underclass of 'degenerates' and 'defectives', and that these aspects were hereditary, so if we sterilised them there would be less disability, less crime, and less cost to the state. They kind of conflated a whole lot of things from physical disabilities (both hereditary and not), mental disabilities, and mental illnesses to committing crime and sexual deviancy, and basically said all of these things were bad for society and would be passed on from parent to child, so if we just stop them reproducing everything would be better. They had a combination of wanting to remove these 'bad people' from the gene pool, and also saying these people weren't fit to be parents so even if they didn't biologically pass on their defectiveness, their kids would need additional support from the state.
There was also a fear that, because the working class and underclasses tended to have larger families (less access to contraceptive healthcare which was still privatised, less education, more likely to be Catholic, and a whole bunch more reasons), they might 'outbreed' the desirable people and that society would collapse.
However, Britain never had a legal medical eugenics programme - they didn't eugenically sterilise people. They did institutionalise people (particularly disabled people and criminals) and segregate them, which was also a eugenic policy as part of the intention was to ensure those people couldn't reproduce. People who were actually able to live independently were often institutionalised if they couldn't be 'trusted' to not have sex and get pregnant or cause a pregnancy.
So one of my favourite weird things I found out about is that, in the 1970s (1974, I believe), someone invented a 'vasectomy tie' - like literally a tie with a symbol on it to show you'd had a vasectomy. There were a few different designs, and they were supposedly to help break down the stigma around getting a vasectomy, but there was this very minor weird moral panic that men would wear the vasectomy ties to dupe ladies into thinking they'd been 'done' so they didn't have to use protection. some of the tie designs (I.O.F.B. was short for 'I Only Fire Blanks') and my transcription of a newspaper article discussing how they shouldn't be used as evidence of a vasectomy.