There is really not a thing called "squatter's rights." The name of the doctrine is adverse possession, and it is not at all relevant when the parents have been living in, and paying for, the home the entire time.
Under all three scenarios, the child is a month to month tenant. The parents must give the child the legally prescribed notice to move out before they can take legal action to evict. In Florida, that's generally 15-30 days depending on where the property is located.
Were the parents paying the mortgage, taxes, and insurance the entire time? Were they financially responsible for maintenance? If so, then there is no claim for adverse possession. Which are very rarely successful these days anyway.
There are a lot of people who are super judgmental and critical of people for a whole number of reasons. Don't take it personally.
Very informative, thank you kindly for your responses. Someone doesn't like me, they keep voting down my comments. I thought it was a legitimate question. .
The whole point of adverse possession is the "adverse" part. Possession of the property must be "hostile" to the interests of the owner. The date the person first entered on to the land, and the conditions that applied at the time, condition how the whole thing plays out.
So in scenario 3, because the parents can claim they were aware that their child was living in the second home, that is enough to prevent adverse possession? I would think then that anybody could claim they knew someone was squatting on a property. Or are you saying that someone cannot claim adverse possession if the real owner is actually keeping up with property taxes, insurance, etc?
If you initially had permission to be there, but overstay your welcome, you entered with permission. Adverse possession cannot develop. A minor child pretty much always enters with permission.
There's no such thing as "squatters rights". When the child turns 18 (or 30, whatever) they become a month-to-month tenant. The landlord (parents) can end their tenancy with appropriate notice, and follow up with eviction proceedings in court if the tenant doesn't leave. Actual eviction is performed by law enforcement with a court order.
If you enter without permission, stay for the required period of time, meet other conditions (such as paying the property taxes, in some states) and the owner does not attempt to evict or eject you (they're two different but related things), then you can gain legal and exclusive title by adverse possession.
The original purpose was probably something to the effect of ensuring that forgotten, disused property can become productive again if there is someone who wants it bad enough to take all the risks.
Most commonly, these days, it happens when neighbors forget where the property line is, and one of them starts gardening or builds a fence on the disputed portion, and the other person does nothing about it for however many years. The law's attitude in some cases is that you should not "sleep on your rights" -- you should be active in defending them.