Your parents are free to disinherit anyone they want. They could say "screw it, no kids or other family are getting our property and we are leaving everything to that homeless guy that hangs out in front of the porn store".
In the US there are no requirements to pass property on to family including children or grand children. As long as the will is valid and they were of sound mind when it was created there is nothing that can be done.
Honestly, because I’m not a lawyer. I had a civil law class in college, so I’m familiar with the subject, but I only passed because of a clerical error. I bombed so hard I didn’t even show up for the final. I got a C.
So i would have to follow the will to the letter? For example, what if we wanted to give say 100k my brother’s disinherited adopted daughter out of the estate? Would we first have to execute the will, then gift the 100k out of pocket? I’m thinking that would create more income taxes, specifically for her.
You are not personally liable unless you deviate from the terms. Should you be sued by the ex wife or your niece, you can pay for the attorney out of the estate funds.
What would happen if my brother and I, sole inheritors of the property, came to a different agreement contrary to the will and trust? Could we violate it together?
Based on your description it’s likely everything is going to go through the trust. The assets should receive a step up and basis and you’re currently under the federal exemption of 11.7 million so the only taxes due would be to the state of WI if you are over the exemption amount for estates.
Someone else could in theory represent your parents' interests in the distribution of their estate (other family member, family friend, attorney they've retained, etc).
Fiduciaries (successor trustees/executors) are typically indemnified for their actions unless they violate their duty (following the terms of the trust).
You can also purchase liability insurance as trustee if it is a continuing trust and you’re worried about your brother suing for whatever reason.
Once the distribution to you and your brother is made you can gift as you please. Anything over the annual exclusion (presently 15k I believe) is subject to a gift tax return and would count toward your lifetime gifting exclusion (presently 11.7 million) and wouldn’t necessarily create a tax event.
Assuming an outright distribution to you and your brother you and he are free to make a separate gift to your niece.