It's not clear to me what aspect of this charge is "bogus," in your view. You've been charged with theft of property under $1000, and you concede you didn't scan one of your four items, a $10 jar of coconut oil. I understand you say that this was a mistake, but surely you can imagine that a would-be shoplifter, once caught, would ALSO say it's a mistake. So from the point of view of Walmart and the police, your claim of mistake is self-serving. Even if you disagree, it's pretty obviously not "bogus." You left the checkout with an item in your bag that you didn't scan.
I didn't concede that, they told me "THAT COCONUT OIL? THAT WASN'T SCANNED!" after being asked for over an hour. They wanted me to admit it but I DIDN'T KNOW. And I never actually saw my receipt to know.
When you get the lawyer, one of the things he or she might ask you is you have spoken to anyone about this event or shared anything on social media about it. I'm going to do that lawyer, and you, a favor in two parts: (a) shut up, and (b) delete this post in which you admit facts that serve as a legally sufficient basis for your conviction of the charged offense. Speak only to your lawyer, and decide whether it makes sense to have your friend be a prospective co-defendant or whether your interests and hers are adversarial. All of which should play out in privileged communication with your lawyer, and not here.
I do get that. I'm just saying I didn't intend to shoplift, and in particular I didn't even unwillfully shoplift $182 (this amount is on the police report), therefore bogus. I claimed it was a mistake the second they said we didn't scan something, I just didn't think it was me and my four items.
I can't afford a lawyer and I apparently won't be able to get a public defender until my court date in over two months. And tbh I don't know what to do other than that or post here for advice like plenty of other people have???? And I don't see them being told to "shut up".
I can't have this on my record, it's bad enough the arrest is already showing up on background checks for jobs. My background is retail management and that's what I was trying to move to another state and do.
I accidentally didn't scan an item, but if I'd known I would've paid for it. I offered to pay for whatever it was, immediately. (they were SNAP items. my SNAP deposits on the 10th, and it was the 12th, so I knew I could afford MY items. in the hour we were detained I told them they could look at the balance on the receipt.).
A lot of this doesn't make sense. You say you didn't shoplift but you didn't scan one item which is shoplifting. In another part the total of unscanned items is $182, this would be more than one bag of dog food and the $10 jar.
my friend, after the police arrived, said she might not have scanned the dog food and tissue and something else. before, she was just asking what wasn't scanned like I was.