I googled this article from the Gazette he mentioned and it’s completely legal. It’s notifying the community of a sex offender moving into the area and they do it for every registered sex offender in the area which I’m pretty sure is required by law as well as handing out flyers to people living in the area. This is more of a /LeopardsAteMyFace situation then anything else.
If the article is factual, there's nothing you can do to get it taken down. It's completely legal for them to publish factual information.
Most discrimination is legal. Firing someone for being a sex offender is legal, as is firing someone for being a baseball fan.
If you're fired, that is discrimination, but it's legal discrimination. Your status as a sex offender is not protected by federal (or local) anti discrimination laws.
Such notification as you describe is not the law of the land. It varies very much up to the municipal level and is a patch work of laws and statutes often at odds with each other. For example in DC, CSOSA is both federal partner and it also has district (DC is of course not a state, but acts like one) obligations. Well, the DC MPD only has state obligations. So SORNA funds the SOR ops but then the data is made public in DC MPD websites which carry warnings for those accessing it. Then you have crossover workers to MD and VA where different set if info is collected and not readily made public but then you have MD or VA workers working in DC and those don't always show up in actual searches using DC sources as they are more transient than permanent.
Now if your comment was only regarding the Gazette perhaps, but their would have to be a statute that that platform is the official notice of record or some known platform for public notices. Otherwise what if the county/designated organization published the notice on a billboard nailed to a tree in a cult de sac and then said the community has been notified ? It's has to be published (like H1-B worker visa notices in a scheduled publication/resource that is read by all)... Wonder if they have that mandate at all? Doesn't matter either way.