In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Yes, because the thing they voted for is unconstitutional, like when some states have overruled abortion bans because the state constitution held it as a right even though the Supreme Court managed to twist logic into a pretzel to claim it wasn't a right at the federal level.
No, it's not unconstitutional. In fact, many states have required gun permits for many decades. Gun control has been ruled Constitutional time & again.
Other states have shall issue permits, which the supreme court has said can be acceptable if not overly burdensome.
Oregon's permitting scheme is may issue which the supreme court just explicitly invalidated in Bruen.
Plus there's the fact that had it not been for these lawsuits, the permit requirement would have been in effect as of today, but no actual permitting system exists and Oregon state police had said they wouldn't be able to have one up and running until some time in 2024.
The 9th circuit already ruled that shutting down gun sales, for even just 11 days, even at the height of the pandemic was unconstitutional, so how exactly would shutting down sales for over a year pass muster?
May issue permits have been in existence for many, many years & have never been ruled unconstitutional... until the current ultra-partisan, bought-and-paid-for, Christofascist, illegitimate Supreme kangaroo court ruled that way. They're a disgusting abomination who've made a mockery of our judiciary. Their rulings are purely ideological and far from based on the Constitution.
Ah, yes, you can call anyone who disagrees with you illegitimate hacks. But when we call out Biden for being an illegitimate president, which he is, we're labeled right wing extremists.😂.
114 is unconstitutional, and despite actually ruling properly in Bruen, this supreme court is most certainly not legitimate, Biden on the other hand, as shitty of a present as he is, is still entirely legitimate.
Your great Cheeto god lost, and every lawsuit he brought forward about election fraud was tossed out do to lack of evidence, even by judges that he had appointed.
As for the law, it could be temporarily delayed until the permitting process is in place... which is estimateded to take a few months, not a year.
Considering for almost a century, most courts agreed that this was legal... then suddenly, a bunch of right-wing ideologues that were forced onto the Supreme Court through nefarious circumstances decide otherwise... yes, I'd say they're illegitimate hacks.
And no, it's not unconstitutional... point blank. But hey, you're right about not arguing with stupid.
They wouldn't do something like use the excuse "13/52" to deny a permit to someone who's black or "40%" to deny someone who's LGBTQ.
Sure sure because the police have been allowed to be discriminatory for a long time, that means it's totally cool and they should continue to be allowed to discriminate.
I mean, I'm sure the Portland cops who have well documented ties to the Proud Boys and had a literal Nazi as a captain until he recently retired wouldn't use that discretion inappropriately.
And I'm sure they'll scrutinize their Proud Boys buddies really closely before granting them their permits.
First off, Oregon already has training requirements for a concealed handgun license in order to actually carry a gun.
Shit, Bruen has been the one and only this court has made that hasn't stripped rights from people or granted more power to corporations and you complain about it because police have been discriminating for so long already.
And if this purchase permit just required training you might have a point, but the much bigger issue is that it gives police discretion on granting permits so even if it get all the required training they can still deny you.
Looks like the GOA suit in state court may end up doing better than the federal case brought by OFF with their incompetent attorney whos primary specialty is defending child sex predators.
This injunction is based on the Oregon state constitution, which actually has stronger protections for individual gun ownership than the 2nd amendment, with clear language that people have the right to bear arms for their own defense.
>The people shall have the right to bear arms for the defence [sic] of themselves, and the State, but the Military shall be kept in strict subordination to the civil power[.].
Yes, a permit that does not exist. A permit that requires a live fire demonstration with a gun that you cannot get without first having a permit to buy a gun.
A permit that allows cops to use their discretion to decide who can or can't actually get a permit, which is a thing that the Supreme Court specifically said was not allowed in the Bruen decision.
But hey, I'm sure the racist Portland cops who have documented connections to the Proud Boys and who until recently had a literal Nazi as a captain wouldn't use that discretion in a discriminator manner.
I'm sure they wouldn't just deny someone black by just writing "13/52 danger to society" or if an LGBTQ person wouldn't be denied with a "40% danger to self".
Oh hey, the ruling was by a Harney county judge, so the fact that the whole law is blatantly racist doesn't actually matter.
Also, the Oregon Supreme Court is made up entirely of Democrats and they still declined to overrule the injunction.
LEVO actively blocked BIOPOC and LGBTQ+ people on their social media who spoke out against this bill to make it look like all the opposition was just white men.
There was no actual organized opposition campaign to this bill, and despite millions of dollars supporting the yes campaign, this bill still just barely scraped by because plenty of liberals saw it for the shit show that it was.
There were other gun control groups working on crafting legislation that would actually hold up to a court challenge, but LEVO decided to just Leroy Jenkins it and go in with this garbage which will end up overturned and make it much harder to pass any gun control that is even remotely reasonable.
Not the guy you're replying to, but I was actually out there protesting after SCOTUS overturned Roe v Wade by ignoring the history and tradition they claimed to have based their decision on.
The claimed that abortion had no long standing history in the US ignoring the Ben Franklin's almanac contained recipes for abortifacients and that there were no restrictions on abortion until the mid 1800s and only applied after "quickening" which was around 14-16 weeks.
Now as far as gun rights, the court has actually been incredibly consistent in treating them as individual rights with multiple cases dating back to the 1800s all treating it as an individual right.
Both sides made a much bigger deal of Heller than it actually was, since it was not some radical reinterpretation of the 2nd amendment but just the first where it was addressed directly rather than tangentially.