Kissaten these days have evolved into two main categories, more casual chains and fast-food style operations, and smaller scale or independent businesses. Of the former, you can find the subdivisions of manga, internet, gaming, maid cafes, etc. On the latter end, there are subdivisions such as specialty gourmet cafes, cafes with decoration from a certain period, music cafes (which cater to an older audience), etc. Of course, kissaten still serve to the general public as meeting, relaxing, and studying places. Businessmen and women often host meetings at cafes, as do book clubs and the like. These days kissaten face competition in the form of home items. While self brewing coffee is increasingly popular, instant coffee and canned coffee are also staples of everyday working individuals and families. Canned coffee was introduced in the early 70s, and remains the best selling beverage in the massive vending machine sector.
Coffee and coffeeshops are quite a beloved part of Japanese culture today, and Japan is one of the biggest consumers of coffee in Asia. Accordingly, coffee's history in Japan is fairly well-documented, as is the larger westernization phenomena Japan underwent in the mid-19th century onwards.
Japan first encountered Coffee in the 17th century, from contact with Dutch traders on Dejima, the artificial island/trading post specifically for Dutch contact. It was likely to have been cosumed very rarely by a limited number of Japanese through this port. The actual first mention of coffee in Japan is by the rangaku scholar Tadao Shizuki in 1782, in his Bankoku Kanki he records that:
Early exposure to coffee in rangaku mostly focused on the method of preparation and drinking, as well as the botanical and medical aspects of coffee. The doctor Hirokawa Kai for example was interested in the medical benefits coffee might have, in his visit to Nagasaki sometime between 1795-1800, noted down the drip method of preparation, use of milk and sugar, and even mixing the coffee with a type of brown mushroom for optimal medicinal effect. Another document in the late 1700s records the valuable belongings of a Nagasaki prostitute, namely a glass bottle, candles, a Dutch smoking pipe, and a tin of coffee beans. Nonetheless, with limited opportunity to drink Coffee, itself unfavorable to Japanese tastes at the time, coupled with its inaccessibility in the immediate constraints of Dejima and Nagasaki, coffee remained little but a curiosity and fashionable accessory for those in the know.
Another aspect of coffee worth mentioning is the relationship between kissaten and the concept of Japanese breakfast. Historically, breakfast would be eaten at home, and it required considerable efforts from the housewife, who needed to cook items such as rice or miso soup, which needed to be prepared the night beforehand as well as early in the morning. In post-war Japan, all of society changed. Firstly, food shortages compelled the US to heavily import wheat and bread into Japan. Children in those years grew up eating bread as part of their school meals, and bread became widely popularized and common within general society. Secondly, developments in public transport and rail travel meant workers could commute longer distances in less time. Thirdly, economic prosperity brought about the salaryman working culture we so commonly associate with Japan today, with many white-collar jobs being offered in densely populated cities. All of these factor into the concept of a morning meal. Time is of the essence, and the busy morning period with commuting and such is hindered by elaborate and complicated meals. Toasting bread and slathering on butter or jam is far easier to prepare than washing and steaming rice, and soaking dashi stock for miso soup, alongside other dishes to be served. Coffee, with caffeine, is naturally favored by working peoples to help them prepare for the day, and is more potent than green tea. Indeed, breakfast tea is now often like that of the west, black tea with or without milk. Thus, urban Japanese people today primary do four options for breakfast (edit) if not eating at home, which are:
With the end of sakoku in 1853, Japan's sudden exposure to the world dramatically changed the nation and society on all levels. When Kobe's port was opened for international commercial trade in 1867, a tea exporter company by the name of 放香堂 or Hokodo made trips to the Philippines and other parts of Southeast Asia. Selling Japanese tea leaves abroad, they returned with coffee beans from India, serving it to curious customers in their shop. In this time, everything foreign and western was starting to captivate the public's attention and fascination. In the coming decades, the restored Imperial government would begin its full-scale modernization of the country, promoting western culture and concepts.
In exploring the history of coffee and cafes in Japan, we can also better understand Japan's wider westernization and modernization process. Coffee was rare prior to Japan's opening in the mid 1800's, it would soon become a popular beverage first enjoyed by the elite, then by the middle class as cafes and affordability increased its spread. Although tea remains the dominant beverage in Japan, coffee has penetrated the national thirst for caffeinated beverages with astounding figures. Not bad considering its relatively 300 years of existence on the islands as opposed to over a thousand.
By the Second World War however, coffee imports were halted to Japan. People made do with coffee alternatives, brewing mimic beverages made from soybeans, potatoes or dandelion roots. In the postwar years, people were eager for leisure, recreation, and consumer commodities oncemore. Japan's economic revival bore the middle-class many avenues for entertainment, especially in a globalized and capitalistic society. In the 1950's television sets, still expensive for many families, were common features in kissaten, where people would gather whenever they wished to watch a program. Classical music and jazz cafes also sprung up, as records were also pricey and rare. Young people and artists flocked to cafes, able to enjoy western culture and personal expression so heavily suppressed during wartime. This also gave rise to student clubs, groups, and organizations gathering in kissaten for political and social movements. Communist, liberal, and labor union ideologies saw a surge, especially during the worldwide student protests of the 60's. Kissaten still functioned as the gathering place of intellectuals, but it also served as bases for planning and discussion, as well as new "sing-along cafes" where organizations would communally sing Russian and Communist melodies. Jazz and Go-go dance also captured the revolutionary spirit, its free-form, spirited, and eclectic styles alluring young minds sick with the competitiveness and institutional burden of university life. In the 70's, video games and arcades became popular among the youth, and many machines and sets were installed in cafes for this crowd. Cafes would continue to rise in number until the economic bubble burst in the 90's, though, they maintain popularity today, often in the forms of newer sub-culture trends such as maid or manga cafes.
Returning to the tea exporter, Hokodo was also to become the first public coffee shop. Opened in 1878, they ground coffee with a mortar. , quite interesting is how it advertises Coffee with the kanji 加琲. The Chinese word for coffee is 咖啡, which uses similar characters. The Hokodo store still exists today, but with the modified 珈琲 in its name. Of note is the differing ways coffee was named in Japan, カウヒイ (kauhii) by Ota Nanpo, as opposed to コーヒー (Kōhī) in modern Japanese.
Ten years later in 1888, Japan's first kissaten opens under the name 可否茶館. There are numerous ways to read this name, Kahisakan supposedly being the main way. The latter two characters 茶館 mean "tea house", while the former two 可否 mean "yes or no?" in Chinese and Japanese, but it might just be a transliteration of the word coffee, being read as kahi. However, 可否 is also synonymous with "advisability" or "recommendation", so perhaps another fair translation could be "Proprietor's Tea House". aside, although the opening of the coffee shop indicates some market and affinity towards coffee, in three years time it closed down.
Kahisakan differs from Hokodo in that the former was a fully-fledged cafe establishment, while the latter merely sold coffee as a store. Though Kahisakan saw only a few years before it shuttered down, Kissaten would truly begin to proliferate during the 1920's, when Japan faced its own roaring twenties during the Taisho Era. While this time is sometimes remembered as "Taisho Democracy", this term is misleading in the political sense due to instability and friction between parties, government, and military. However, socially, Japan continued to modernize, with flourishing literature, music, film, and theater. In this time, kissaten widened to the more general public. Previously during the developments of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, kissaten acted as a salon, where the social elite and intellectuals gathered to gossip and discuss higher matters. As coffee imports increased and prices decreased, coffee cost about ten sen per cup in the 20s. Thus, kissaten were enjoyed by everyday folk, from students to novelists.
eating at a sitdown restaurant for traditional Japanese meals (tamago kake gohan, variants of teishoku meals with things like broiled fish or salmon roe, served with miso soup).
Nakamoto, Stuart T. and Halloran, John M. and Kazumi Hajime. The Coffee Market in Japan. University of Hawaii. 1990.
Whelan, Christal. "Traveling The Coffee Road Café Culture from Kaffa to Kyoto." Kansai cool: a journey into the cultural heartland of Japan. Tuttle Publishing, 2014, pp. 99-104.
White, Merry, “Coffee in Public: Cafes in Urban Japan” in Coffee Life in Japan, 1-18. University of California Press, 2012.