In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I want to add more, but I think everybody should just read the article to see the depths of his depravity and the complicity of his wife.
One of the things that really bugs me is that she reported the sexual abuse to counselors at a Christian Summer Camp and the camp counselors had her speak to a social services counselor but she got spooked by the idea that she could lose another family.
I have heard it argued that it was the Democratic party a little but most of my family seems to think that Disney is going to personally send over LGBTQ folks to your local school to teach them all about how to enjoy rough anal sex.
The sad reality is that much of what gets taught at an early age is how to watch out for sexual predators and to give children the tools to avoid, escape, and stand up to grooming and other forms of sexual abuse which honestly makes a hell of a lot more sense given that the religious right continue to defend sexual abuse reporting loopholes for the clergy.
It's more that they've been trained to treat any negative claim concerning a republican as lies concocted by the evil liberals while any negative claim about democrats as true. In fact this sort of thinking is required to be part of the right wing in group so you either get on board or you get excluded or called a RINO traitor.
This thinking is so ingrained that it's a reactionary habit they've formed anytime they read or see any information. 'I do my own research' means they found someone saying what they already want to believe. 'It's common sense' means they prefer their own biased vs actual information on how reality works.
I don't think it's ignoring in the traditional sense. My anecdote is that a lot of Republicans truly believe that it's normal conduct that they themselves would do in the same situation. They "ignore" that it happened as a negative, but they definitely know it happened and given the power they'd do it too.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.