He had deposited his work checks, they had bounced, and then he did not check his account balances for about 2 weeks because he assumed he had the funds. He ended up at about -$2900 or so, because he only used his debit card and swiped it daily.
In that case, we advised him to go after his employer, whose check bounced- however, there was a situation where we could only reverse X many fees.
I would advise you to go in and politely request to talk to someone who could assist you in dealing with a bounced check/the fees that followed. Explain the situation, and see if they will reverse some or all of the Overdraft fees. They may agree or decline- some institutions don't reverse ANY fees unless it is THEIR error.
The downside: it was a fight to get that poor man his money back. I argued with multiple people in his defense, but the biggest barrier was this- if your bank offers online banking or mobile access to your accounts, it is likely considered your responsibility to check your balances and ensure you are not negative. Did the check bounce? Yes. That isn't your fault. But if access to view and monitor your accounts was provided, they may try to argue that you should keep better track of your stuff.
I would: Get a detailed balance history, have the teller stamp and sign it with the date, and get a copy of the bounced check. Present it to your employer and explain that their check bounced and that you would like them to make you whole considering this was their fault. (Our member did this and his employer did pay the rest of the overdraft).
I would have them scan a copy to you, and then get a printed copy you could mail to you employer. Honestly email would likely work just as fine, but I would keep copies of all sent and received convos from them.
Was she referring to the check bounce fees only, or did you specify you wanted the daily overdraft fees taken off as well? They may not be able to refund the check bounce fee, but they should be able to refund the overdraft fees.
Whether you can force them to pay, however, is a different matter. If they're bouncing checks, they may not have any money. And, if not, then there's this old expression about blood and stones.