You might not necessarily be "losing him" in court. If the father wants to be a part of his son's life, that's a good thing. Unfortunately, if you're not together with your fiance anymore, that's going to mean you might end up splitting custody time with him. You need to understand that it's his son too and if he hasn't shown any reason why he can't be a good father, he is going to be entitled to see his son too.
You can make an argument about daycare but you can't argue that "mother" means you have more rights than the father or that you deserve more time because you're unemployed.
You know you're starting at a disadvantage being in an unstable position in many ways. Don't make it worse by being in an unstable position and being unreasonable about shared parenting time.
I understand that and it's fine with me. I just want the majority custody as the mother and primary care taker of my son. I'm worried he'll completely turn it against me and say I'm not fit.
I want more than that, yeah. I want him 100% of the time to be honest. I can't imagine how painful it will be to be apart from him. I know that's not possible but something more than 50% would be preferred. I'm his mother and I want to be his primary caregiver. He works a lot and I don't want my son to be in daycare so young.
"It would be better for me to look after our son rather than putting him in daycare" is a reasonable argument.
"I'm his mother and simply not being in MY baby's presence is tOo PaInFuL so I DESERVE more than you" is not a reasonable argument.
This is a great example of why lawyers can be so helpful. It's completely understandable why you would have these emotions and why this argument would be reasonable to you, but to a third party it's not going to hold up at all. A lawyer can be a third party that is on your side and can help you evaluate arguments to be sure the court only hears ones that make you look good.
Look into what legal services your school offers or what legal aid is available in your area. Also, you should look into employment, which is another avenue to obtaining an attorney. I assume your fiancé has been supporting you, but that's about to end shortly and you will need to start supporting yourself and your child. It may not even make sense to make any arguments about daycare if you're going to have to use childcare to work as well. Staying home with your kids is largely a luxury afforded to those who have a partner who makes enough to support everyone. You no longer have that, so the frank reality may be that staying home with your kid is not an option anymore. And failing to provide a stable, suitable environment for the child is one thing that can impact your custodial split, so it's going to be important for you to prioritize providing that when the time comes.