Your title makes it seem like India is doing it - when it's a handful of company. And even then this article is a nothingburger.
This article is not a "nothingburger". It provides important information about Indian companies that have been exporting leather to Russian companies that make boots for the Russian military. This is significant since it sheds light on how Russia is able to sustain its military efforts in Ukraine. The article also discusses the broader context of India's trade relationship with Russia, which has grown significantly since the invasion of Ukraine. It is important to follow this type of news in order to understand the complex situation in Ukraine and the various factors that may be contributing to it.
Isn't Europe enabling Russia's war more by literally buying up their gas exports even now? Until Europe ceases trade with Russia, it is in absolutely no position to lecture anyone else about any trade done.
Some Indian companies doing this but Indian banks comply with sanctions. So I don't know why you are blaming a whole country for some companies supplying leather?
The money on which Europe and USA are living is the real blood money, plundering India and Africa for 2 centuries. For more than half a century, USA, Europe and middle East supplied arms and military equipment to Pakistan.
The same European countries are importing 30x more russian oil. Oil prices have risen by 3 times. If western countries have the right protect energy security of their country, they should extend that privilege to other countries too.
USA has bought USD 1.8 million worth commodities including oil from russia since the start of war, UK has bought USD 1 million worth commodities from russia (majority being oil), Same with Germany, Netherlands. What India has bought is miniscule, 0.5 million USD worth commodities. Proportionately, India falls somewhere around 7th place. That too when the population of India is equal to USA, UK, Germany and Netherlands combined.
Thank you for your comments on the stand India has taken. Please ask your governement leaders why they have closed venuzuela from trading with rest of the world. Or maybe make comparisons of how much India contributes to the Russian economy compared to USA. A hypocrite calling others hypocrite is exactly what I expected from you anyway.
You are asking the wrong question. Indian government has taken a clear stand from the beginning supporting peace. in the name of sanctions, the market for oil has become unfavourable for low and middle income countries, While the high income countries enjoy with the wealth they plundered for 2 and half centuries. India would have stopped trade if European countries did it. But no, Europe continues to import large amounts of oil and paying back in euros. In fact, Europe buys more oil from Russia in one day than what india buys for the whole month. Why is there such double standards? Also, now since the Europe is under attack, everyone has empathy for Ukraine. Where was this empathy for India when we were invaded by Pakistan and china? Indo-pakistan war has been going on for 75 years now, and so is with china... The world said "deal with it" to India when china annexed the whole Tibet region. Why is that right but it's wrong when Indian leaders keep the interests of Indian citizens first?
Hence, I find that talking to you is not right use of my time. You are neither talking sense, nor do you seem to have adequate knowledge on this subject. You are just piggybacking on the same lies you have been fed, and you don't seem to be willing to even look at the trade data. Data speaks for itself.
Okay. That's all well and good but your title is misleading. It leads to demonization of a country instead of a few companies. And moreover from the same article -.