If he only has liability insurance than there is no way his insurance will pay because he chose not to purchase collision insurance. It doesn’t matter what the cameras show or who is at fault. There is no reason to keep calling the police either. If he has the other drivers insurance he can file a claim with them and if they side with their driver then he will have to sue the driver in small claims court.
I know that his own insurance policy will not pay for the damages but, is there any way that the driver's insurance can pay? Essentially this is the flow of what we are confused about:
\- Has the other driver committed a crime and if so, how can that benefit Steven/how can the police be brought into this?
\- If the driver has the same insurance as Steve and the owner of the car, would the shared insurance cover the cost of the repairs?
Steve's insurance company has nothing to do with this, and it doesn't matter if he's a customer as well.
If insurance doesn't pay/doesn't have insurance, then Steve sues the at fault guy. Again this will mostly be the same with insurance. Both give the judge their version of events. The judge decides who is responsible and pays.
1)if there is a police report Steve can request a copy & get the drivers information if on the report.
2)there is no “shared insurance” here. If all 3 parties have the same insurance, it doesn’t matter. Steve doesn’t have collision coverage. If the car was stolen (used without permission) then the owners policy will not pay).
3)Insure typically follows the car not the driver. If the drivers insurance doesn’t cover him in other vehicles then his insurance will not pay.
4)if Steve can obtain camera footage he can turn it in to the drivers insurance IF the driver is even insured.
I wouldn't hold my breath looking at camera footage. Most cover what the people owning care about and wouldn't get a good great look as described. Plus Steve has no right to this footage, many won't hand this over.
This isn't a court room. The at fault driver and Steve tell the responsible insurance company what happened. They then decide what likely happened and if they determine the driver is responsible they cut Steve a check.
6)if the car was stolen then that’s between the owner of the car and the friend who stole it. The owner of the car can report it it he wants. There’s nothing Steve can do to bring the police in to this and even if he could, it doesn’t change what I already said—-it will NOT make the insurance companies pay for Steve’s damages. He will have to sue the driver. It’s a very unfortunate situation but this what can happen if you choose not carry collision and uninsured motorist coverage.
He chose to not purchase the coverage that would allow his insurance to help him. If the car owner successfully claims his car was stolen then his insurance will not pay as he's not liable for the actions of a thief. If that's the case the driver's insurance won't cover damages caused by him while driving a stolen car.