Yes, the Romans were aware of the Triumvirate, and of the agreement between Pompey, Caesar, and Crassus popularly called the "first" Triumvirate. In reality, there was only one Triumvirate, that of Octavian, Lepidus, and Antony. This was a legally-defined collegiate magistracy, which though extraordinary nevertheless had a legally defined tenure of office, which was renewed several times between its creation and its eventual expiration prior to Actium. There was nothing to hide as far as the Triumvirate went, as it was a public office.
Caesar, Pompey, and Crassus were known to be working together pretty much from the moment it happened. They did not make any great attempt to conceal their cooperation, and openly extended hands to others as well. In a letter to Atticus (Att. 2.3) Cicero mentions that towards the end of December 60, between Caesar's election to the consulship of 59 and his assumption of the office, Caesar sent Balbus to him to offer him a partnership among the dynasts, specifically saying that he would value Cicero's advice as equal to Pompey's, and that he would reconcile Pompey and Crassus. Cicero has some difficulty turning down the offer, since he was following 63 very closely tied to Pompey and, as he says, hoped to resolve the quarrels with his senatorial enemies that had been hovering over him since his consulship, but ultimately he tells Atticus that he can't do it. In April of 59, early into Caesar's consulship and before Cicero started speaking out against him towards the end of the year, Cicero says to Atticus that he doesn't envy Crassus at all for his alignment with Caesar (things were not going well for the dynasts in mid-spring), and apparently Cicero was the original choice for the third dynast.
By 56, however, the dynasts' relationship was weakening, since they had gotten what they had wanted and no longer had much need for each other (therefore Suetonius refers to the triumvirate as a "societas," which is not quite a coitio, though Caesar was accused of forming one with L. Lucceius, which was staved off according to Suetonius by Cato's rampant bribery). However, with Cicero returned from exile and Pompey's power over the senate in Caesar's absence significantly weakened, the dynasts reopened their relations at the so-called Conference at Luca in 56. The "renewal" of the triumvirate, if an unofficial agreement can really have official renewal, was a public event. The dynasts got together at Luca in Cisalpine Gaul, and agreed that Caesar should continue prosecuting the war in Gaul and that Crassus and Pompey should share the consulship of 55. With the dynasts at Luca were so many magistrates, promagistrates, and senators that according to Plut. Caes. 21.5 there were 120 lictors at the conference and over 200 senators. App. B.C. 2.17 repeats these figures. An earlier meeting between Crassus and Caesar had already taken place at Ravenna, says Cic. Fam. 1.9. In the same letter Cicero tells us that he himself was in negotiation with the dynasts through Pompey and his brother. Cicero had attempted to drive a wedge between Caesar and Pompey while ostensibly trying to restore the regular function of the state (or more concretely, as Tatum very persuasively argues, trying to get the dynasts to agree formally that Clodius' tribunate was invalid) by reopening the question, settled two years earlier, of what to do about the commission to settle the ager Campanus. When Pompey visited Caesar at Luca Caesar did not like what Cicero had had to say, so Pompey spoke to Cicero's brother Quintus, one of Caesar's legates in Gaul. Cicero says that Quintus reported that Pompey told him:
The dynasts also appeared publicly. If there were any who still weren't aware of their alignment to each other, when the agrarian bill to settle Capua was promulgated relatively early in 59 there could be no doubt. Not only was it strongly in all three men's interest, but in a contio prior to the bill's promulgation Caesar invited Pompey and Crassus to the rostra in order to say whether they supported the measure or not. They did, and apparently made some sort of threatening overture: App. B.C. 2.10 seems to suggest that they encouraged the people to show up to the vote carrying daggers, and Plut. Caes. 14.3-4 says that Pompey threatened to use military force to get the bill, which would settle his soldiers, passed. Bibulus was also invited to a contio, and foolishly accepted--Morstein-Marx has shown that though invitations to contiones were frequently extended to rivals, they were almost never accepted, because as is the case with Bibulus a rival speaking at a contio typically was a target for the crowd's ire, not a legitimate speaker. Yet another indication would have been Pompey's marriage of Caesar's daughter. In May 59, only one month after poking fun at Crassus for siding with the dynasts Cicero has this to say (Att. 2.9):
This is the first surviving written reference to a "rule of three," though App. B.C. 2.9 tells us that Varro published a book or pamphlet called the Tricaranus, or "three-headed monster.".
Oh, uh. It's not a form of government. It's a description of their official office within the state. In the Republic magistrates were elected, or sometimes appointed, officials, typically with a terminus of a year, although promagistrates (i.e. non-magistrates with the effective powers of a magistrate, at least in certain contexts), priesthoods (not technically magistracies, but also in some cases elected and similar in form if not in any other way), and extraordinary (that is, "abnormal," specially-appointed positions to respond to some crisis or administrative requirement) magistrates operated differently. Strictly speaking, Latin "magistratus" in its precise legal meaning refers specifically to the curule magistrates (consuls, praetors, curule aediles, censors) and the lower magistracies (plebeian aediles, quaestors, triumviri capitales, not to be confused with the Triumvirs proper), as well as extraordinary magistracies like the dictator and so forth, which were not regularly elected, but usage could be fairly loose even in a legal context (one of many nails in the "constitutionality" coffin). So the term "magistratus" is used to describe the magistratus patricii and the magistratus plebeii, the curules, and other relatively unimportant quasi-offices. The term is likewise used to describe leaders of unofficial citizen associations like collegia and so forth, even though these had no state-defined character before the Principate. And then there's the problem of the tribunes. Plutarch says that they're not magistrates, because they're not elected by the centuriate assembly or the tribal assembly, but by the plebeian assembly, which is very similar to but not quite the same as the tribal assembly. Yet the tribunes get called magistratus all the time...Most magistrates had colleagues who shared their rank, hence collegiate magistracies. Only a relatively few extraordinary magistrates like the dictators were without colleagues. Magistrates had various functions, but did most of the state administration in the Republic, whereas the senate were primarily advisory (though they had the ability to appoint minor magistrates like the minters without elections), and the citizen assemblies elected magistrates and approved or rejected laws. That, at least, is Polybius' much-disputed assessment of the Roman state, though he doesn't afford any of the magistrates but the consuls any significant power.
Would you please describe this form of government in a way that makes it clear what distinguishes it from other governments? Especially with the term "magistracy," the dictionaries I'm looking at are providing definitions that are either circular ("the state of being a magistrate") or vague ("a principal official exercising governmental powers over a major political unit").
What Republican magistracies are not are three dudes unofficially getting together and agreeing to help each other out, which was ideologically unacceptable to Republican sentiments even if it was not technically coitio (that is, an electoral alliance) since only Caesar was running for a magistracy (the consulship) and therefore not open for court proceedings. The so-called Second Triumvirate, however, was a legally-defined and recognized office, created by the lex Titia. There is, however, much debate about how well defined the Triumvirate office was, especially with regards to the ability of the Triumvirs to overrule each other (all magistrates could theoretically veto their colleagues and those magistracies ranked below them by the end of the Republic, but there are only a handful of cases of any magistrate other than the tribunes using the veto) and whether the phrasing of the supposed 5-year term limit strictly speaking meant that the Triumvirs lost the powers granted to them by the lex Titia.
More specifically - and this may be a separate question - are there contemperanous areas of Roman law that we we have a better understanding of and how are they informed by the available sources?
Meaning that we don't have the full text of this lex Titia, or that this text is ambiguous / open to interpretation?
Correct, we don't have it. That's typical for Roman "constitutional" law, and criminal law. It's one of the problems we have with determining Roman constitutionality, we don't understand how non-civil law was phrased exactly. Indeed, there are very few references to the contents of the lex Titia, which might mean its exact contents don't seem to have been especially important, or it might mean other stuff. Could be a fluke of source preservation even.