Yea it is illegal. Couple of things you can do. First get a lawyer for mom. Next look to see if she kept any of the sales documents from the dealership. Also did she report the sale in any way to the state, I.e. did she return the plates to the state, or did she send any paperwork to the state. Any of that paperwork that shows the change in ownership of the car with a date is proof of sale to the dealership. The state should also have a copy of the sale to the other person who was driving the car. Ask the state for any info they have about the car. The state should be able to provide the information if you can show that you owned the car at some point and provide then the letter showing a law firm has filed a lawsuit. A lawyer can handle all of this for you if you hire one.
If you can’t afford a lawyer you can provide that info to the law firm that brought the lawsuit. Be sure to explain exactly what happened and do not make any excuses or admit to anything except selling the car to the dealership. Ensure you keep copies of all correspondence. If you do send any correspondence then ensure you send it by certified mail.
If she used it as a trade in it should be listed in the sale documents for her current car. Do not listen to the dealership. This is probably a tax scam they are pulling and they want you to cover for them so they can keep doing it.
Yeah she traded it for the car we currently have. The problem is (and I don't know how this happened) that no sale documents were given for that trade. And the dealership is using that against us saying that we can't prove anything since there is no document. The only thing my mom found is a document from her insurance showing that she stopped insuring the car and replacing it for the one we currently have. Not sure if that is enough though.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.