Purely out of curiousity: What sort of car were you driving ? I can push past 85 out of carelessness on an open road, but 110+ is a different sort of dynamics and feedback and engine and road and wind noise and it's hard to imagine not noticing.
Some states have a "per se reckless by speed" where excessive speed is by itself a reckless driving charge. But TN does not, with the exception of Nashville city streets where +15 is per-se reckless.
I was in a 2012 Subaru WRX. I get what you’re saying about it being a different sort of dynamic, had it been any other time or day I would have noticed. Like I said was just a not so great night for me. I new I was going fast, just didn’t exactly realize how fast. Between it being dark highway where I can’t see what I’m passing, blasting music, and honestly I just wasn’t in the right emotional state to care about paying attention, I just didn’t notice what my exact speed was. I thought I was pushing 95, maybe just above that.
So you got lucky. You've maxed out the license points for a speeding ticket. But since you have no other tickets, this 8-point whopper will not put you over the 12 points in 12 months threshold for a license suspension.
I'm amazed by how cheap speeding ticket fines are in Tennessee; in my jdx this would be an easy $400+.
Oh, heck, of course a WRX will do that. Their engines scream at any speed. It's not like you were pushing the operational envelope of a Camry.
It's worth a consultation with a traffic attorney to see if you can take driving school (why don't they count rally classes ?!) to reduce the number of points. The biggest impact is going to be on your insurance rate, but just one citation is not the end of the world even with its substantial license demerit point value.
People seem to knee jerk downvote when things are legally correct but against common sense/what people want to hear as penalties or outcome.
ETA: I have no idea why this is being downvoted. TN fines for speeding go up to $150 and OP was driving ONE HUNDRED AND TWELVE MILES AN HOUR. With no mitigating circumstances.