I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Be aware that obtaining a patent is a process which can take _years_. Right now, is about 18 months. If you believe you have a useful invention, prioritize building it over patenting it.
In most cases, software is not eligible to be patented. There are some exceptions, but they are narrow -- they typically apply to software which implements a fundamentally new _technology_, such as an encryption algorithm or video encoding format. Software which merely applies existing technologies to solve a known problem is unlikely to be considered sufficiently novel to be awarded a patent, even if those technologies are relatively new (like machine learning).
If you believe your software falls into one of these exceptions, consult with a patent attorney. From what you are describing, however, it is unlikely that this is the case.
Thanks for replying! According to the research I did earlier today, I thought I had a fair shot because while the key algorithms are not any sort of new mathematics, they are implemented in my invention to create a ground-breaking new technology that has the potential to switch most of the maritime shipping industry over to wind as the primary means of propulsion. So, now do you think my software is an exception?
I don’t care how long it takes to get an actual patent, as long as my IP is protected properly by the provisional application.
Honestly, everything that you've said just pushes it even farther in the "probably not patentable" direction. From what you're describing, it _sounds_ like your software is probably some form of decision-making algorithm for a propulsion system. That algorithm is not itself patentable, and embodying that algorithm in a piece of software does not make it patentable. The case law surrounding patents changed significantly as the result of a Supreme Court ruling in 2014 (); make sure that any information you're referencing isn't older than that.
If there is a novel physical component to your invention, that is far more likely to be patentable than the software associated with it.
The other novel part of my invention is in how I apply the algorithms to translate data from sensors, but decision-making algorithm is an apt name for the rest of the software.
So you are telling me that even though my invention is the missing link to moving the entire marine shipping industry over to wind power, just because it is software, there is no way I can protect it? It would be the easiest damn thing in the world to steal as soon as I show it to the world. So frustrating.