This is actually pretty common because unlike water or electric service, sewer service can’t be “turned off” while the house is uninhabited. The prior owner likely never opened an account with the sewer department so as far as the city knew nobody owned the home until you bought it. But if you’re being billed for a time period that you didn’t own it, it’s the city that needs to make that right for you, not the prior owner. The bill doesn’t run with the property so the city can’t pass it on to you just because you happened to buy it next. Call the sewer dept, explain the situation, and offer to send them a copy of your closing paperwork to substantiate when you took ownership. That paperwork should also indicate who the seller was. That should be more than enough for them to adjust your invoice and redirect it to the right person.
Right, I should have mentioned this. Where I live that is how the sewer bill is calculated - you’re charged for the amount of wastewater that flows from your house during the applicable period, usually a flat base charge and then a volume charge. If your house has a water meter then the volume charge is based on that, if not they usually have a formula based on number of rooms, bathrooms, etc. We have a sewer “district” that then sends a monthly “sewer bill” which is really for wastewater usage during that month, and then separately we receive a different bill directly from the city every 3 months that covers flat fees for water and trash. The water can be turned off by the city when somebody moves, which would in turn mean there shouldn’t be a sewer/wastewater bill generated until the water is turned back on again.
It sounds here though like the water was always on since the house was renovated in 2018, so wastewater was being generated and sewer charges were accruing the whole time, but the prior owner wasn’t paying the bills for whatever reason. So when you bought the house and activated your account with the sewer dept, they must have shown a massive unpaid balance for that address and just carried it forward onto your first bill.
I still think step 1 is contact the sewer department and explain. If your sewer bill is for a date range that at least part of which you didn’t own the house for, call up the sewer folks and explain the deal. If they need documentation that should be easy enough. They may need to go after the prior owner, but once your charges are correctly adjusted then that’ll be between the city and the prior owner and none of you concern.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Title: Moved into a renovated home. City never charged the renovators sewer and water and are hitting me with the bill.