Check with Comcast. If they need to run a drop through your yard for some reason they would certainly be talking to you about it. And tell neighbor once you’ve discussed with Comcast you’ll let him know if it’s OK.
I design utility lines. I would not let a neighbor dig across my property. That doesn't make sense. Utilities dig across utility easements, not neighbors.
To reiterate, unless an easement specifically says so (which is not likely), your neighbor has no right to dig on your property. Your neighbor has no right to dig in public utility easements on your property. It's your property, not his. Easements across your property are still your property, and only grant certain specific rights to specific entities to do certain things on specifically defined sections of your property.
In the case of general utility easements, this would only include public utilities. Like Comcast, phone companies, gas companies, electric companies, etc. These public utilities can use utility easements. They do not need to ask for your permission, as the permission was already granted via the utility easement.
I would absolutely ask what easements are on your property that Comcast intends to use. First, I might ask the neighbor what easement he has on my property, with 99.9% certainty that he has no such easement. If he cannot answer the question, (with proof via some document or instrument conveying such an easement), then I would believe no such easement exists, and courteously and politely deny him the right to dig on my property.
I would then contact Comcast, and ask them what easement they have on my property. I would ask for paperwork defining such an easement.
Which, I guess is the core issue. I do not know where your utility easements are. I do not know what easements have been granted. And apparently, neither do you.
Also, when the neighbor said he had already hired someone to dig the trench, that was a red flag for me. I work for Comcast, and under no circumstances that I've ever seen does a resi customer ever coordinate trench work. That's done through Comcast (done with internal folks or contractors, depending).
Worst case scenario is they have a blanket easement. If they have such a blanket easement, things can get messy, but I would try to keep things simple by asking them what their policies are regarding their usage of blanket easements, and politely ask them to make as minimal of impact as possible.
Utilities are required to return property to (reasonably near) its original condition. Utilities often don't. They may only bother fixing it if you complain, as dealing with complaining customers is a headache.
If, heaven forbid, they tear up your property without an easement, or if they make a huge mess, the nuclear option is to go to the regulatory body in your state and file a complaint against the utility. This will get the direct attention of supervisors and department heads to fix the issue(s) and avoid penalties from regulators.
TLDR: Your primary step should be to find out what easements exist on your property, that would justify such a line going across that section of your land.
Edit: Never mind....I scrolled down and see that a former Comcast tech has answered my question. Thanks anyway!
I call BS on the neighbor. Ask for proof of the easement, as stated, and call Comcast. Even if this is a rare instance of the customer volunteering to do the trench work, I've never seen a tap (what a drop would connect to that would give you service) installed on a resi customer's garage - they are installed in the public right of way. Sounds to me like he's trying to split your drop to extend to his home.