From a previous answer of mine to a similar question (which I would note was about public urination, the usual accusation aimed at Versailles - the idea that people pooped on the floor isn't commonly bandied about, which should tell you something):
This is actually a story specifically about Versailles, as I understand it, rather than a statement about general hygienic norms. In Louis XIV's (1638-1715) time - which is actually the Baroque rather than the Rococo - yes, the standards of sanitation and toilet manners were quite low. At that time, it was considered quite a shining palace and to have an impressive courtly air, but with the sheer number of people there every day, the lack of modern toilet facilities, and an earthier sense of what should be done privately vs. publicly, people ended up urinating in corners. The Duc de Saint-Simon wrote that Françoise de Brancas, the Princesse d'Harcourt and one of Louis XIV's contemporaries, would walk away from company, urinate on the floor, and walk back, and people simply accepted it; he also wrote that Louis XV's regent would receive visitors while seated on the chamber pot. (That being said, court memoirs and diaries are notoriously subjective and unreliable. Saint-Simon used to be taken as a true authority, but he must be taken with a grain of salt like all the rest. If he had a grudge against these people or simply liked gossip, he may have made things up or passed along rumor as fact.) There were public latrines, but even today these can be barely better than using a spare corner.
Under Louis XV (1710-1774), there was an attempt to clean up Versailles. He had several bathrooms installed for himself, and made improvements to the latrine pipes so that waste was farther away from the people using them and living near them. But through the 1760s, people still found others using the corridors as toilets.
public corridor, as happened in 1741 after a privy in the attics of the north wing was converted into a lodging. People did the same in the first-floor gallery of the south wing. When the newly married dauphin and dauphine were lodged here in 1745, iron barriers were placed in front of the arcades opposite their rooms “to prevent indecency and dirtiness.” In 1762 the comte de Compans complained about the passersby and kitchen boys who “attended to their needs” in an inner courtyard in the same wing, “often breaking his windows,” presumably because he remonstrated with them.
Flushing toilets, called lieux à l’anglaise (English places), began to be introduced in the 1730s, spread quickly to important members of court, and by the 1780s were even installed for footmen.
Is it correct to deduce that the crux of the question / answer is that the palace was an intensely public space — rather more public that most people, including me, would imagine it to be automatically?
What I mean is this: would it be helpful, or correct, to think that a royal courtly palace in France, at the time, was not in spirit like an exclusive manor, a secluded space for the lords of the house and their selected guests of the day? And that it wasn't even like a modern government building — that might receive many "open-door" visitors daily, but is tightly controlled and has multiple checkpoints to streamline and direct people towards their business and back, lets them go only as far as they need to, and strictly prevents loitering?
Would it be correct to imagine that instead, the palace complex was more of a giant public space, akin to a fancy train station or a mall, which a fluctuating group of several thousand people (very exclusive, sure, but still a very numerous group) would visit, every day, and stay there for hours — socializing, hanging out, eating and drinking, and biding their moment to network and negotiate?
If we frame this space in this manner, it wouldn't be so improbable even to a modern Western observer to imagine lots of people would evacuate themselves in a quiet corner or in a bush — in very large part because of the overall anonymity and "public-ness" of the place, leading to a feeling of impunity; similar to how bad littering and hygiene is at modern festivals or fairs.
As I understand, the court of a king at that particular time and place was a large enough institution to not be a closed social group where everyone knows everyone on a face-to-face basis; not to mention the vast anonymous workforce of the grounds, with which guests also must have been interacting (asking, demanding, complaining, and bickering with, engaging sexually, bribing and sending on errands...). This multitude of people coming and going and doing each their own thing, as I imagine, would enable this atmosphere of anonymity and collective impunity, leading in the end to "indecency and dirtiness".
I think your analogy of Versailles as akin to a modern mall is pretty apt (it was one part luxury housing development, one part business district, and one part general hangout spot for all levels of French society), and likewise, your observation that it wouldn’t be too hard to imagine someone sneaking off into a corner for a piss is also probably likely. I fall on the side of “it probably happened” but I also believe that it was not exactly considered proper behavior when it did.
It is useful, if not imperative, to bear in mind that the sources mentioning any kind of public urination and/or deffication at Versailles (or any other major European court for that matter) fall into two categories:
2) if reliably witnessed, was written about in a way that clearly indicated this was not normal behavior, ew gross.
Most of the sources I’ve run across on this topic reliably fall into the “gossip” category, along the lines of “I heard from Madame Louise that Princess Elizabeth saw Madame du Barry relieve herself in full view of the court during Mass...” (Names used here for illustrative purposes).
You have to ask yourself who is relating the story (are Madame Louise and Princess Elizabeth a fan of Madame du Barry?) and who is the subject of scandalous behavior (du Barry, of course, everyone knows she’s little better than an uncouth common prostitute), what are the motivations of the writer and where do they align with court, and finally, is the gossip corroborated by anyone else at court who witnessed the alleged incident?
Most of the time, it can be traced no further than that one source who wrote down some juicy court gossip for the amusement of the letter recipient.
The trick is to read between the lines. A lot of these sources are really pointing out two major themes: first, that bodily functions are gross and inappropriate when done in full view of an audience; and second, the people who are most often accused of these scandalous behaviors are either lower class or highly divisive court players, both classifications of people who are routinely singled out for a good drubbing.
So, Bryson is interesting in that he’s done just enough research to sound credible but his writing style is filled with hyperbole and over-exaggeration for humorous effect. I also haven’t run across any such “edict”, and I am hardly the most exhaustive scholar of the ancien regime, but the fact that he is not an academic writer and his writing is not subjected to the same kinds of academic rigour as someone who is, tells me that everything he publishes can be placed in the “amusing anecdote and/or embellished to entertain” category.
Also, there’s the not-so-subtle art of satire that’s often added to the mix, especially where libels are concerned. Those pamphlets were circulated to entertain the literati and humiliate anyone unlucky enough to be worth humiliating in print. They are notoriously unreliable as sources for any factual information, but they’re often used as evidence for some of the truly shocking alleged behaviors at Versailles, especially by novelists who are looking for a good hook for their plot.
As /u/kittydentures said, it all comes down to the fact that books by non-academics are not seriously scrutinized, so they can get away with writing cool rumors they heard.
It’s where critical thinking skills are important. Our generation isn’t the first to just blindly accept “primary sources” as fact — obviously, many of those primary sources were accepted as fact centuries before we came along and were similarly scandalized by the sordid tales of ridiculous courtly behavior.