In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Its a real shame there is a duopoly and only really two viable options to choose from. Huge shame that polarized dems or Gop will fight tooth and nail to tell you how different their parties are, while the exact same shit gets done over and over by the exact same demographic that controls both sides...but do go on and tell me how anyone that is a swing voter or already disenfranchised doesn't know whats going on..Frankly it seems like the polarized people in each party don't know whats going on and only really parrot their own parties talking points while ignoring virtually anything else, while constantly trying malign a group of people that is larger than either the DEMS or the GOP. You are looking at the real majority and it for sure isnt one of the two parties in a duopoly. Feel free to think otherwise, as it will take too much time breaking down the numbers for you, and chances are you will have already misunderstood something else.
I'd say that American voters have the long term memory and attention span of a gold fish but I feel like that's disrespectful to gold fish.
you see the voters shouldn't have to 'vote out' people who literally planned, paid for and directed a coup...voter attention? what does it matter if the crop of people on the 'other side' of a polarized duopoly won't file charges or really do anything to the wealthy and powerful...Vote in new worthless people, that will refuse to do anything as well? the whole system is broken.
lol. you can't see that the exact same demographic controls both parties? that the whole system is set up to protect that group and the duopoly is set up to continue to play people against each other without any real options to exit out of the dilemma...anyways, you keep focusing on the 'good' dems vs the 'evil' gop, that special little demographic that controls both is laughing all the way to the bank over how easy it is to keep people like you in line...again the system is broken or in reality working EXACTLY as planned for one certain group.
Yes, I imagine that many swing voters and non-voters think things like that, and unfortunately correcting their misunderstandings is so time intensive that by the time you're finished explaining one thing they've already misunderstood something else.
It's a shame folks don't know how our government works or pay enough attention to see the differences in the parties, but it is what it is, I guess.
There is only one party trying to cut taxes for the ultra-wealthy. There is only one party that is trying to cut medicare and social security. There is only one party that didn't publish a legislative agenda. The republican party.
There is only one party passing comprehensive domestic manufacturing and green energy bills. There is only one party trying to ensure every citizen can exercise their right to vote. There is only one party that doesn't treat DREAMers like negotiation tokens. The democratic party.
The progressive agenda does not serve the 0.1% class. That's why they actively fight it. The democratic agenda is less friendly to the 0.1% class than the republican agenda.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Not voting is what the billionaires want someone like you, someone who reads the news, to do. You're playing into their hands by buying into this both-sides/duopoly line of thinking and not voting.
Trust me, if every American voted for the most progressive candidate they could, the billionaires and the political class would be shitting their pants and throwing fits.
Yep, the electoral college and first past the post win condition really screwed us over on that, it's a shame the founding fathers chose an election system that would ultimately force us into a two party duopoly.
And did you know a lot of people don't know that the two party system is the product of systems and structures written into the United States constitution? Some folks actually believe that the two parties "work together" or some shit when really they're more polarized than they've been since the civil war.
It's a shame folks don't know how our government works or pay enough attention to see the differences in the parties, but it is what it is, I guess.
once again, the system is broken or should I say working exactly as planned by a tiny demographic that controls both...its a shame some folks are so polarized they cannot see that problem and instead just focus on the forced divisive nature of the system, continually buying into whatever piece of divisive nonsense that is put in front of them to intentionally keep people fighting and not paying attention to the real problem..it is what it is, huh...
Unless you get rid of the electoral college and the first past the post victory condition you're just going to wind up with two parties again anyway.
Unless there's room in the system for a third party you'll continue end up with one liberal party and one conservative party.