There is no legal issue with someone being paid more than others, and not to get too deep into it without the salesman there might not be any sales to employ anyone. But that doesn't matter.
Yes, but there isn't an "ethics advice" sub on Reddit. I figured this would be the most fitting. If there is a better suited sub, please point me to it.
His job is to bring in new business, yes. And to keep relations strong with the business we do have. But rarely if ever does he do these things. Other than taking someone out to eat, buying them a steak. That is his primary job requirements. He has secondary requirements as well. Like helping us meet the customers needs by whatever means reasonably necessary. This is where he falls short. It's also part of his primary job. They kind of mesh together. If we are shorthanded an need him to do something for a customer, he outright refuses, even though it falls in the category of customer relations. Like they need this thing now, and we need you to go get it, otherwise they are going to take their business elsewhere. He will refuse.
There are quite a few of us who a very upset at the situation. The part where it gets into legal issue is that he doesn't do any of his own trainings or expense reports or anything. Like his online OSHA training and stuff. He has the clerk do it. And that's not her job. He even asked her to do his stuff two days after she had her baby while she was on maternity leave. She almost said yes (because she is afraid to speak up for herself) until our operations manager stepped in.
Even if there was an ethics sub, the best you could hope for is that someone agrees "that's unethical" (it's probably not) but "it's unethical" doesn't help you. And I'm not aware of every sub.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.