It's impossible for anybody to say for certain, but it is definitely a distinct possibility. Artists' interpretations of the Colossus seem to swing both ways, but most commonly the assumption is that it did indeed have junk. And everybody knows that if artists a thousand years after the fact thought so it must be true.
What I can say with a certain degree of certainty is that nobody was sailing underneath the Colossus at all, looking up at its junk or otherwise. That bit about it straddling the harbor is a cool mental picture, but complete bunk, it was a story told to travelers who spread it around because it sounded cool (most commonly attributed to an unnamed 14th century Italian). What information we have indicates that it stood upright on a large marble platform.
Anatomically correct sculpture was certainly a thing in ancient Greece (they had been putting dicks and balls on posts indicating road markers, called herms (or hermai), for centuries by the time the Colossus was built). These were considered sacred to Hermes (and commonly had a bust of his head on top), and were associated with his role as the god of travellers. On the other hand, the Colossus was meant to be Helios, not Hermes.
Please, it's history, we can't prove anything without a doubt. But we do have contemporary writings referring to it, so it very likely did exist, in as far as we can say that there was a big bronze statue of Helios erected in or near Rhodes some years after they repelled the Macedonian siege, and that it remained for centuries even after collapsing in an earthquake some decades after being built.
But it's important to note that the colossus was, most likely according to what details we do have, an iron frame with bronze plates (or brass, or I've read one source that said gold but let's be realistic here), attached to it, and attention to detail would have come second to 'what can we do with this without worrying about bits falling off'.
I've never seen a consensus, but the most commonly put forth reason is that Hermes, in addition to his guidance of travelers (and thieves/tricksters/con-men, and commerce, and a bunch of other concepts), was associated with male fertility. So he would be symbolized on these road markers with a man-height square stone post with Hermes' head on top and his junk at the appropriate height because those are the important parts.
I had no idea that ships didn’t actually pass under the statue. I wonder if the statue simply sat on a marble structure, why was it included in the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World list?
Thank you i didn't expect such a great answer! I've always thought that it would be kinda ridiculous to see such a magnicifent structure and then pass below it and see the balls, anyways it makes sense that the ships didn't go below it.
Because it was a big impressive statue at a time when that was difficult to pull off, some accounts putting it similar in size to the Statue of Liberty.
Your comment about the Colossus myth is very interesting. I knew that it wasn't standing above the sea, but never knew how this myth originated... Can you please write some more sources of the origins of the myth? What evidence do we have about that unnamed Italian and which account of him serves as a source? Who concluded that the myth originated by him?
We don't even know that much. There are several locations around the harbor that are claimed as possible sites, and at least one archaeologist who says it wasn't near the harbor at all and would have been part of the hilltop Acropolis. It's very unlikely for it to have been actually in the harbor, since it was still visible laying on the ground after it collapsed (some of our most concrete information about it, including the size, comes from the Pliny the Elder's Natural History in the first century AD who traveled to see the fallen Colossus in person).