Your landlord is correct. You will need to continuing paying the full rent and then sue your former roommate for this portion. If he's staying in the Ukraine it's unlikely you will be able to recover any money from him. So you have a few options.
(3) you can review the terms of your lease and see what the method is for early termination of the lease.
Does it count as me being evicted though if it's caused by his lack of paying? Also I don't know if it matters, but does it count as being evicted if he used his sister as a cosigner?
Yes, if you're on the lease you'll be evicted too. If you fail to pay the full rent both you and your ex roommate will be evicted.
So the big question is, have you actually been added to the lease? Do you have a copy of it? If not get one.
If you are evicted it will be because you did not pay. If you were both on the same lease, you both have an obligation to ensure the full rent is paid every month. What portion is paid by each of you is a matter between you two, and does not affect your legal obligation to your landlord. You are the one in the apartment (and the country), so you will be the one evicted and potentially sued for the full amount of rent owed.
So you said you spoke to someone representing the building, and they told you (correctly) that you now owe the full rent. Your former roommate is also still responsible for the rest, but by abruptly leaving the country, he has made it prohibitively expensive and complicated to get money from him. If you don't pay the full rent, the apartment can (and likely will) evict you both. It will take a while, but if you are evicted (or even if they file for eviction), it will be nearly impossible to rent a new apartment for many years.
What I would recommend you make an appointment to talk to your landlord/whomever is managing the building to discuss the situation.
- Your former roommate tricked you into signing the lease knowing he was going to leave the country.
Is the sister still in the US? As a co-signer, she will also be negatively affected by an eviction, and may be able to help pay for it or convince your roommate to do so.
- You have no way of being able to pay on your own and since he left the country, you can't get any money from your former roommate.
- You understand they don't need to do anything to help you, but given how unusual this situation is, could they consider making an exception and allow you out of the lease.
To be clear, your lease is a contract and (barring some unusual terms) they don't need to modify it or let you out of it. If they won't let you out of the lease, you need to start looking for a roommate immediately. Until you find someone, you need to somehow find a way the full cost for the apartment.