He needs a lawyer. Reddit is not going to be of any use here besides telling him to stop talking about this situation with anyone who isn't his lawyer.
I understand that there is only so much Reddit can do, but here’s the thing. We cannot find a lawyer, and we are scared. We are low income and every low income lawyer is booked out to December. We are confused. We are trying to find answers and I am trying to reach out where I see a lot of people find answers. Thank you for commenting anyhow, have a good day.
Are there any charities or disability advocates in your area? They may have better access since this involves at least two people with developmental situations. They're also more likely to find or know attorneys who are better suited to work with your family and make sure your needs are met and rights upheld.
The two things that are of utmost importance are to stop talking about this with anyone, and to absolutely do everything you two can to find a lawyer sooner rather than later.
If you havent already, CASA may be a good organization to reach out to, since they are advocates solely for the children. They may have resources to direct you to lawyers who, at minimum, would be the children's lawyers, if not be specialized in the custody areas you need for your husband.
The mother of the two other children filed an immediate danger order and it was granted on the 3rd of august, and yesterday was the initial hearing for the reasoning behind the eldest child being in foster care. The next hearing is regarding the other children on the 1st of September, which will determine the course of this whole thing. They set out the eldest’s court dates to October, but we will call a hearing much sooner if the 1st goes okay. Everything is so unpredictable.
Sorry, I was trying to keep it ambiguous for their sake. He had full custody of the oldest, and she was taken and put into foster care almost two weeks ago. She was placed with my mother but they took her from her as well. She and her younger sister aren’t saying anything bad at all about their dad, while the son is saying horrible things. The oldest daughter has been educated in what is and isn’t okay for adults to do consistently and consent on all levels is practiced in our house. That’s why this all baffles me. The other two children live with their mother full time and she has had plenty of time to coach and groom them. We think that’s what is going on.
I’m not asking anything in particular, just some sort of direction with this. I have no criminal history so I’ve never been through this before. We’ve called the state bar, legal aid, etc. He has a court appointed lawyer but the case is in 3 different counties and he can’t use the same lawyer.
So, the case is really weird because it has cases in three different counties. The county where they got divorced, the county where we live, and the county where the other children live. We have a court appointed lawyer for our county, but not the others and they have denied our requests for the other counties. The lawyer is not allowed to do outside work. We’ve left messages, called legal aid, Saint andrews, etc. We have paid consultation fees just to be told they can’t help us. We’re exhausted at this point.
I’m gonna update the post in a second but damn guys. I’m obviously buried under a mountain of confusion and I needed legal advice, so I came to r/legaladvice. We have a court appointed attorney. We have called other lawyers. We have taken advantage of our resources. I know I come off as rude or bitchy over text but my gratefulness for the people here today who helped me instead of ridiculing me cannot be measured. My children and my partner are my livelihood. Like I said, I’ll update the post. Thanks.