scrutiny, but that was reserved for special cases. Just "having a file" is not quite the same as "being under surveillance".
For example, Ayn Rand had a file, starting in 1947. The FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover wanted a compilation of people who testified for the.
House Un-American Activities Commission and she was noted as friendly; the file starts with a review of _The Fountainhead_.
The file also includes a letter of Rand wanting to talk to Hoover directly, and, curiously, a copy of the book.
stored for posterity. The file included a 1961 letter upset at Rand's atheism and "odious philosophy" of objectivism.
On the other end of the spectrum you had the surveillance (and much worse) of Martin Luther King Jr. He first had raised.
And what about Hemingway, where the question came from? Well, most of his FBI file is in regarding his days when he worked for for US intelligence on behalf of the American Embassy while he was in Cuba. (This was _after_ he already introduced someone from the FBI as a "member of the Gestapo", so that was considered more a joke than a strike against him.) He assembled a team under the guise of "scientific investigations concerning the migration of.
Intelligence Division, handled by the Internal Security Division, and even though the Atlanta office reported there was no.
the ire of Hoover via an 1959 article in The Nation where he wrote about the lack of black Federal agents, and Hoover.
from that time essentially disliked MLK personally. In 1962 the Southern Christian Leadership Conference was.
significant Communist influence, Hoover pushed back and insisted that King be listed on the infamous "section A" of the.
An electronic surveillance program was run from 1963 to 1966. The FBI used (according to Congress's _Findings on MLK Assassination_) "little discretion" in deciding what to record, even though the original directive was to look for contacts with Communists. The effort became more about unearthing personal information, and a letter using some of the material was sent to King with a copy of one of the tapes:
An entirely separate campaign was started in 1967 by COINTELPRO against both black groups and MLK (a year before the MLK assassination).
COINTELPRO (Counter Intelligence Program), which ran from 1956-1971, is sometimes confused for FBI surveillance as a whole -- notice the.
number of years MLK was surveilled otherwise -- and tended to be targeted at groups deemed "subversive" like the Black Panthers and.
the American Indian Movement; of course as part of that they would also target leaders, so MLK was doubly included. 1967 also saw the.
Brown, J., Lipton, B. C. D. and Morisy, M. (Eds.) Writers Under Surveillance: The FBI Files. (2018). MIT Press.
Thanks for the response! Regarding field agent surveillence of high level targets, even this seems to be a very large number of agents employed by the beareau, were they all full fledged agents, or like i asked were they somehow deputized civilians? I asl because it seems a bit silly to take a man with a university degree in criminal justice and post him outside a high level targets house party eating cheeseburgers and taking notes of whos coming and going (the classic movie trope). Also the idea of near 24 hour surveillance seems far fetched and a massive waste of manpower. Was this reality?