How dreadful for you. Take some deep breaths and understand that this kind of stuff results in brain fog. You & your family are more important now than the law.
When someone dies without a will (is "intestate"), state law determines what happens. Under Michigan law his children are his heirs.
Someone will have to be appointed to be in charge of the estate, by the probate court in the county where he lived. The law says his children have equal priority be appointed. There is a certain amount of legal rigmarole involved.
That person's duties are to inventory estate assets & debts; pay debts using estate assets; and distribute what's left to the heirs. That's a simplified description of "probate.".
I recommend getting more death certificates than you think you need. It's easier & cheaper to get them now, than later. The funeral home usually orders them for you. Everyone wants one, then they lose it and ask for another.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Honestly, it depends on what his financial situation is. Is he renting a small apartment and has a checking account and that's it? Does he owe a lot of money on his credit cards? Does he own a house free and clear and have several hefty retirement accounts? Advice is going to depend on what he's leaving behind.
For the short term, you should contact all of her accounts--banks, brokerage, retirement, etc. They may not be able to let anyone access the account until the appointment is made, but they can freeze the account to prevent identity theft.
Although it is possible to probate an estate as a do-it-yourself, most people find that it is really helpful to have a probate or estate attorney to help. The attorney fees are paid by the estate, but the attorney may want an upfront retainer. You may want to go ahead & find an attorney now, rather than wait. I have handled four estates, including one where therE was no will (although not in Michigan.) I found the assistance of a probate attorney to be invaluable.
Location matters for this one, as laws for what happens to an estate in the absence of a will are different everywhere.