I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
. You cannot be sued for debt that is more than 6 years old, (well, you can be sued but the fact that the debt is beyond the SOL will prevent them from winning so long as you provide it as a defense). You can learn more about time-barred debt . You can restart the debt collection clock by making a payment or potentially by agreeing to pay/making a plan to pay. Do not do that.
Thank you for the response. Upon reading I do have two other points. I do apologize I messed up the year it was actually 2016. Also I did ask if I would be able to get something In writing she said that would only happen when I made first payment. Again thank you for the insight.
Feel free to ignore everything she says until you have validated the debt. They're very simply legally required to respond to a properly rendered debt validation request before continuing their attempts to collect a debt. To properly render the request, you must make it within 30 days of their initial contact with you and you should put it in writing and send it via certified mail so there is proof the request was made.
It sounds possible that this debt collector violated the FDCPA and/or in numerous ways, like , and . You never ever pay a debt collector you haven't validated, scammers can impersonate real debt collectors and use leaked data in order to collect debt that really exists but isn't owed to them. Even legitimate debt collectors can simply get their facts wrong. I'm not convinced this was a legitimate collector in the first place, but before you go any further you should ask them for their address and send them a debt validation letter, (sample DV letters can be found ). You are mostly doing this to see how they respond, if they refuse to give you an address or balk at the request/suggest that they are in any way not legally compelled to respond to a properly rendered debt validation request, then they are likely scammers. If they provide their address, send the letter via certified mail within 30 days of the date they initially made contact with you. You can also dispute the debt at that time, especially if the debt is more than 6 years old, (see below). You should also check your credit reports with the 3 major credit reporting agencies by visiting annualcreditreport.com. If I were you, I'd also complain about the collector's behavior via the channels discussed in the latter portion of the third link.