You've already consulted with multiple lawyers and you seem to have a solid understanding of your legal options and the consequences of them. It does not seem like you are here seeking legal advice as much as wanting someone to explain what and why your husband is doing what he's doing. That's not something we can tell you.
Not the case at all. I am here seeking legal advice. When your a hammer everything looks like a nail. I am seeking legal advice here in the hopes someone who has experienced this same common situation will share their legal experiences. Yes I have interviewed many attorneys which is always advised when seeking legal counsel.
What do you mean you were cut off financially 6 months ago? Do you have separate expenses outside of household expenses? Do you work for your husband as an employee in his business? Is that business in trouble financially and that’s why he’s been liquidating assets? Or do you think he’s embezzling from his business? Or.....?
I am a SAHM. He literally stopped paying for anything except health insurance and the cell phone. He says he is only making enough to pay for his building and health care for our family. He hast not paid gas, electricity, garbage bills, his credit cards, his car payment etc. I am selling our belongings to buy food, gas, car insurance until I can find a job BUT now he has a tax lien from not paying his income tax since 2017 and that shows up on my background check when I apply for jobs. The tax lien is very damaging because I worked in banking and am applying for jobs in banking. I get 2nd interviews but no offer once the background check has been completed.
Basic legal advice, talk to a few divorce lawyers and ask them what to do regarding the unaccounted for money, they will have questions about where you think the money went. If it went into gambling or drugs or sex workers, you might be out of luck. But if it’s being hidden in his business accounts or elsewhere a lawyer might be able to help you recover your share of marital assets.
Also, this whole idea of divorce being a trap? I’m not sure I understand that outlook of the situation; you want to continue to be married to someone who financially abuses you and leaves you in the same poverty you would be in if you were single, on the off chance that one of his ventures will win big? It’s naive of you to think that even if he did make a bunch of money from these pursuits that he wouldn’t continue to hide all these assets from you.
If you’re struggling to the point where you can’t afford any of your bills, or can’t even buy food, I would suggest casting a wider net with job applications to employers that have less demanding background check requirements. Are his credit cards and car payment solely in his name? Depending on your location they may not be your legal responsibility to pay back.
You’re only 50, you still have time to work to provide for yourself, and while going through divorce the court should determine that a lot of these debts fall solely onto him, and you’ll most likely be granted some kind of spousal support since he’s been the only source of household income for some time. The longer you stay, the worse the situation becomes because you have less time to work to provide for yourself when you do leave, AND what happens when you run out of things to sell to feed yourself and your child?
I’m not shaming or chastising you; in another comment you had said you were specifically applying to banking positions, hence my advice on casting a wider net in the job pool. A lot of the information about your specific health information was not present in your main post, so naturally that wasn’t factored into my response. Trust me, I do not wish your situation on anyone and I feel for you, I was just simply stating that I didn’t understand your viewpoint on divorce given the limited information you originally provided.
Fortune with forensic accountants to find the money and because my husband stopped sharing his business travel itineraries 10 years ago I have no way of knowing what counties he really was visiting.
If your husband has hidden over a million dollars around the world you definitely need a very skilled lawyer to help you separate cleanly and find and recover as much of the money as possible. If he’s lost money from high risk business ventures you’re SOL and staying married longer won’t help you.
And now I find out the Covid vaccine didn’t work for me as it is not working for the majority of transplant patients. I have developed no Covid antibodies.
I am applying for anything/everything I can safely do since I have been fully vaccinated for Covid. My husband shut off the WiFi at home and refuses to allow me to use an empty office in his building or pay for WiFi at home so I can get a remote position. My husband also made certain my car was repossessed last year. I drive his car when he allows it but I recently learned he hasn’t made his car payment since last November. My husband also stopped paying the utilities last June so I am scrambling to keep the lights and gas on at home. I am a transplant patient. Divorce over 50 is financially devastating for healthy women. Divorce for me presents a potentially life and death situation because of the cost of anti rejection medications I am required to take every 12 hours to stay alive. Trust me I am well aware of the horrific abuse I am enduring. I did not post my question to be shamed and chastised. I posted my question for insight from hopefully from a person that has experience navigating this situation.
Feels like a trap because he is starting more businesses that may be more lucrative. Once I file for divorce it’s my understanding I have no claim to future income. Why would my husband do this now if he wasn’t going to make more money?
How much money is unaccounted for? Over $1MM? Probably worth paying to find it. Under that and probably not. Finding it is not recovering it, but it’s the first step.
That’s the problem. In my state spousal maintenance is 100% judges discretion and my husband has liquidated all the assets I knew about. I am over 50 divorce will likely leave me in poverty. My husband traveled internationally for work for many years and probably hid money all over the world. Most countries do not have reciprocity with the United States when it comes to these issues. I would have to spend a small.
Life is not fair. Just remind yourself that everyday. People do not get what they “deserve”, good or bad.
Your husband is not a stable future. He’s deep in debt right now, and that’s probably going to get worse before it gets better. So stay married and roll the dice, or leave now and build a life for yourself. You’re about to have no minor children, which means your expenses are about to go way down.
I have given you the only reasonable advice anyone can give you. Talk to a lawyer about the specifics of your situations and see what they think is recoverable. There is a very good chance that the answer is nothing.