NAL or HR, but.... Here's the DOL's link on You'll probably be interested in the bit there where it says he can't use FMLA leave as a negative factor in employment decisions like promotions. Also the bit where he's discouraging you from using FMLA leave.
You're almost certainly not going to argue your boss into following the law if he's been doing this for two years now. Start saving anything you can that documents this like emails, text messages, etc. Make sure you save it somewhere NOT work-related by forwarding to your personal email/phone. If it's only happening face-to-face, start taking notes during or immediately after meetings. Make notes now of what you can recall of the history of this. Once you've gathered up evidence, if you think your company has competent HR that's not going to immediately figure out how to fire you, you can go to HR. You should immediately lead off with the fact that you've been taking FMLA leave and that ever since your boss has been retaliating by passing you over for promotions and specifically telling you that your legally protected FMLA leave is a problem.
If you have any doubt that your company has competent HR, you should talk to an employment lawyer and follow your lawyer's advice about when and how to talk to HR. Ditto if you get any feeling from HR that they're not taking this extremely seriously.
Not a lawyer, but I'm a lonime manager who takes yearly courses on exactly these issues, and at any given time have people out on FMLA leave...
While I don't quite think you have the slam dunk case everyone else here thinks, I do think there is enough to warrant a discussion with a lawyer. Performance reviews are tricky with FMLA employees and any violations here are going to be nuanced and fact dependent. Reduced performance at work is common with medical issues, employers need only to accommodate those issues, not reward them. If you are being paid the same as when you were hired, I don't see much claim here.
Go to HR. I know there is this troupe that HR is there only to protect the company, but in this case their action would be protecting the company as well as you.
Remember, the employer is going to have a different version of this narrative. You need to compile all of the documents now to support your version.
Thank you for this perspective. It definitely helps me adjust to the reality of the situation. I have gone to HR. They’re very inept for such a large company. Employees sue often. People brag about it. It’s terrible.