The question is a bit broad, because "bodyguard" is a very vague title/occupation. Given you're asking about ninja in the historical context of "bodyguarding" and make reference to secret service, I'm going to answer you with information related to oniwaban (御庭番, aka niwaban 庭番), onmitsu (隠密, lit. hidden secret), and the transition of Iga no mono into government service.
To start, it's important to understand that those who would become these "bodyguards" were ninja of Iga and Koga that were in service to the Tokugawa family. They fell into this role as a result of persecution under Oda Nobunaga between 1579 and 1582- the Tensho Iga no Ran (天正伊賀の乱)- stories of which are recounted in the Iran-ki (伊乱記), chronicle of chaos/events in I(ga) written by Nyogen Kikuoka, who we believe to be a monk from Iga. A number of version of the Iran-ki existed over time, with the most well known being the Kosei Iran-ki (校正伊乱記) (I own a copy of the Sanko Iran-ki 参考伊乱記). Those events then led to the appearance of famous ninja, Hattori Hanzo, in the Mikawa Go Fudo-ki (三河後風土記), where assistance was offered to members of the Tokugawa-.
The tale goes on to mention various ninja escorting members and troops of the Tokugawa family through bandit-infested and other dangerous areas. It was due to the help of the Hattori family, Tsuge family, Yamaoka, and others that Ieyasu could recover and regain his stronghold in Mikawa, according to the stories. He repaid his debt to the men of Iga and Koga by permanently taking 300 of them into service. Two hundred of them were organized into the Iga-gumi Doshin (伊賀組同心, the group/team of Iga as "police") and put under Hattori Hanzo's command. And thus we see the beginning "official" uses of ninja as a force within the government under what would become the Tokugawa shogunate.
Ninja of Iga Koga formed the basis of the new Edo police, each with varying roles and, as such, varying "names" being associated with them. Such names include doshin(同心, like referenced last paragraph) shihai kaikyu(支配階級), machi kata(町方), oniwaban(御庭番), onmitsu(隠密), metsuke(目付), and teppo tai(鉄砲隊). The machi kata, for example, lived on the outskirts of Edo where crime was rampant and where they were recognized as possessing a high degree of skill in nawajutsu (縄術, rope techniques/methods), which they used to subdue criminals. Teppo tai were mainly ninja from the Negoro region, specializing in firearms; they served as an armed protection unit for the shogun and family when they left the castle, usually being referred to as Okubo hyaku-nin shu (大久保百人衆, the hundred men from Okubo). Oniwaban and Onmitsu brought together all the qualities of a skilled fighter, spy, marksman, and strategist.
Oniwaban were charged with the duty of protecting the living quarters of the Tokugawa family in Edo castle, hence where the "bodyguard" idea comes from. Given that one was prohibited from drawing a sword or really any weapon in the confines of the castle, the martial skill with mutodori (無刀捕, unarmed against a weapon, lit. "no sword capture") exhibited by these men from Iga and Koga made them perfect for the job- not to mention their ability to operate discretely kept awareness of any "incidents" around the castle to a minimum. It's said the origin of the oniwaban lies with Tokugawa Yoshimune in 1716 when, as the 8th shogun, he brought 16 men from the Kii province to be his private guard, patroling the interior, and later receiving tasks from other spies/ninja in employment, such as from metsuke mentioned earlier, a kind of spy specializing in "unconventional operations" in addition to all the other intelligence-related activities one can find on wikipedia. Granted, most metsuke are like "inspectors" rather than "spies," but the intelligence gathering aspect shouldn't be ignored in favor of more "inspector"-like or assistant metsuke such as kachi matsuke (徒士目付). Note that while the oniwaban of Yoshimune are from 1716, ninja served in the role of castle guards for decades prior.
Last, the term onmitsu refers to people engaged in undercover investigation of the movements of daimyo, the behavior of the samurai under direct service of the shogun, and the performance of the various officials. The onmitsu could be ordinary members of the metsuke, but also oniwaban, Iga no mono, and, basically, ninja. They were not "bodyguards" in the traditional sense, but special agents of the shogun used to gather intelligence and spy on daimyo in provinces across the country. They were often skilled individuals, for their travels would be fraught with peril. And the information they relayed was of critical importance.
Just note that most of the association with Iga ninja is from popular culture, not trustworthy historical sources.
Hopefully this gives you some insight into how ninja transitioned into protection/policing/bodyguarding/intelligence roles in the Edo era!
Not that you said so, but I just want to be extra clear there's nothing historically that tied the Oniwaban to ninjas. If anything, what little sources survive from their formation suggest they were chosen from men already employed by Kii domain to handle gunpowder.
In the official histories these guys aren't singled out. Even in the late Edo Kansei Chōshū Shokafu Masanari , as compared to Hasegawa Hidekazu (who wasn't even a Tokugawa vassal) who planned the trip at a moment's notice and even tried his best to secure guards and support along the way, or Ii Naomasa (who was still a koshō at the time) (Masanari recieved nothing). Masanari's contribution to the escape is more of a popular-culture depiction than official history. Also Masanari is not recorded as a ninja, though later sources like the Shokafu do record him as having led ninjas.
Iga, Kōka, and Negoro were all part of the Teppō Hyakunin Gumi. They were armed with guns and guarded the gates of Edo. That they were ninja is from popular association, not their actual roles.
I'm very much aware of this, which is why I didn't reference any popular culture source. Everything I wrote is based off academic sources or an actual soke of ninjutsu traditions. Yes, I'm aware that lineage owners themselves may not be "good" sources, but they do reference events that can be looked up in other historical sources. Unless you mean to say the Irank-ki of any variety is a bad source and should be discounted? If so, I'd love to hear your reasoning.
Nor would shinobi of the Sengoku Jidai be referenced as such. This we should all agree on. Mie University historian Yuta Sakai throws out this passange.
Due to the retrofitting of the term "ninja" to past actors, sure. Keeping track of ninja history is difficult when the term isn't used until well after the fact. Arguing who or what is a "ninja" is a much larger discussion that this thread, but suffice to say, I would argue for a more broad definition based on individuals and groups that used ninjutsu as the heiho and taijutsu or other physical teachings from those regions, because that's what Japanese history is all about when it comes to budo, bukkyo, and all these "temple" traditions. This is where you'll probably tell me Ise Jingu has no official record of "ninja" so all associations between families, budo teachings, bushidan, etc that existed at the time with ties to those areas and shrines is just pop culture and Mie University historians along with Koyama Ryutaro, Tobe Shinjuro, and Okuse Heishichiro should all be discounted. Hopefully that's not the case.
Everytime I see Koka I think Anthony Cummins (sorry!). What you said does not change what I wrote. I don't understand why you don't want to associate those individuals as "ninja" even if the entire context surrounding them and their abilities can be linked with "ninja" and "ninjutsu" teachings. If you are adamant that none of them are ninja because the term 忍者 doesn't appear, again, you're missing out on history to be understood. They were not simply armed guards at gates; the teachings of Negoro Ryu are there and tied to those individuals. If you want to argue that decades later it faded away, sure, that's plausaible. But to say Naruto popularized the concept of Negoro-shu and ninja is to ignore work done by Japanese historians.
Sure, if you base everything off "official" histories when it comes to anything "ninja" related, you're going to miss out on the real history because you'll be discounting all the context that goes to describe various events. This is the big problem with ninja history in general. First, the term "ninja" doesn't even get used until well into the Edo era, which makes everyone that may be a "ninja" difficult to officially catalog as such. Second, because of the previous point, it becomes tough to figure out posthumously who or what is/is not a "ninja." That's when various ryu, lineages, contextual documents, etc all come into play. So even if those folks singled out in the Iran-ki may not be singled out in your "official" source, does not automatically mean iga/koga no mono involved were not "ninja." Next thing you know you'll tell me there were no ninja in Kishu, Izumi, or Ise even with the hotbed of bushiden activity and associated sogo bujutsu teachings! I mean, Kamiizumi Ryu heiho is listed in the Bugei Ryuha Daijiten as a school of heiho and ninjutsu, specialized in 夜戦, and even references use of 忍び装束; but they were not "ninja" by any "official" record.
As if it was hard for unemployed ronin in the Edo to exaggerate their deeds or make those things up.
This argument makes about as much sense as saying the Musketeers of the Guards were swashbuckling agents because Alexandre Dumas portrayed them as such.
Ninja were people who were regularly (or semi-regularly) tasked with or hired to conduct frontline spying and infiltration or enemy forces or fortifications to help the main army, and prevent the enemy from doing the same.
And finally, "ninjutsu" as "secret knowledge" is basically advertising selling point like found in every other Youtube weight loss ad.