Sorry for really late response as well as the divided in [Part I] and [Part II] due to the word limitation of single post in Reddit.
We can find some complementary instructions in a series of laws issued by King Æthelred the Ill-Counseled (Unready) around 1000 CE (Tsurushima 2017: 8-10):
Medieval England since middle to late 10th century CE at least had a particular attraction to the invaders in contemporary Latin West: An hierarchical administrative machinery with better royal control, jokes aside. On the other hand, it can also means that the significance of this land [England] for possible invaders had greatly so increased in course of the 10th century that we should not consider that of the 9th century and that of about 1000 altogether (the former is another story).
As /u/mikedash argued before in , the kingdom of the English under the 10th century English rulers like King Aethelstan and King Edgar (d. 975) achieved the political unification of southern British Isles, with help of the shire system, the networks of the fortifications (burh), the taxation (see Williams 1999, Chap. 7), and among others, the tight royal control (reform) of the silver coinage as well as its circulation (issue-recall-re-issue) of high finesse in a relatively short period of cycle since the reign of King Edgar.
In short, Late Anglo-Saxon England was indeed the very rare example in Latin West that the king could actually monopolize and guarantee the issue and the circulation of good quality silver coins in all of his kingdom. One calculate that the minimum finesse (purity) of the silver coin minted under the royal authority in England from the late 10th century to the late 14th century had kept about 92.5% to 93% throughout Anglo-Saxon, Anglo-Norman, and Plantagenet dynasties (Tsurushima 2017: 10).
This stable, high average finesse of English silver coins (pennies) was also exceptional if we look at other areas in contemporary medieval West [in the 10th century]: Late Frankish rulers and their successors in now Germany and France often granted the privilege of minting the coins to both secular and ecclesiastical aristocrats, so they lost grip on the kingdom-wide coinage system. Such locally produced silver coins were of uneven quality and finesse (purity), and very few of them could match the quality/ finesse of the English one.
High reputation and wider circulation of English silver coins, even before this monetary reform under King Edgar, is also confirmed by the very rich money bag found in 1883 in one of the houses in Roman Forum, called Forum Hoard: It was the present from Bishop of London to the Pope Marius II (r. 942-46), and consists mostly (over 99%) of English coins, probably minted in London (Naismith 2019: 135-38). Dozen [ca. 50-70] of moneyers across the kingdom, mainly located in the consolidating towns like London in southern England, produced such high quality silver pennies in Anglo-Saxon England.
Recent scholarly debates have also focuses on how much late Anglo-Saxon and Anglo-Norman society was actually 'monetized', that is to say, based on the money transactions (Fairbairn 2019). Fairbairn illustrates the wide and rapid circulation of the minted money in the 11th century, around 100 kilometers around the original minted place like London and York (Fairbairn 2019: 1106-10), and also points out the possibility that not only within the towns, but also even peasants in rural countryside could access to the silver pennies, at least in southern and eastern England.
It was this high quality silver pennies that the English kings (including the Cnut the Great, ex-Viking himself) paid en masse to the Viking fleet in the late 10th and early 11th century, as I briefly mentioned in . To give an example, in 1018 alone, the English had to 82,500 pounds (ca. 28.875 tons) of silver pennies to Cnut and his (ex-)fleet crews of the invasion army (Swanton trans. 2000: 154). Even some skeptics of this very high amount like Bolton admit that the king of the English can collect large scale of silver pennies in circulation to pay this kind of tribute to the Vikings.
Bolton comments on this point: "England was probably seen as an easy target by the Danish invaders partly because of its relative wealth, but also because the king could raise the money needed to buy them off quickly, through national taxation system. It was much easier negotiating for large payments from a central source than it was travelling around looting individual monasteries, or being bought off piecemeal by local leaders (Bolton 2012: 99f.).".
Allen, Martin. "Silver Production and the Money Supply in England and Wales, 1086–c. 1500." The Economic History Review 64, no. 1 (2011): 114-31. Accessed February 5, 2021.
Williams, Ann. Kingship and Government in pre-Conquest England, c. 500-1066. New York: MacMillan, 1999.
Fairbairn, Henry. "Was There a Money Economy in Late Anglo-Saxon and Norman England?". The English Historical Review, Volume 134, Issue 570, October 2019, Pages 1081–1135.
So, the well-handled royal silver coinage and the national wide administrative system like the taxation attracted the Vikings "again" to England in the last decades of the 10th century.
As I argued before in , silver was the primary form of wealth in Viking Age Scandinavia, not only as medium of economic transactions, but also as of forging the social bond between the chieftain and his military retinue. It was not until the end of the 10th century, however, that very few Scandinavian rulers issued the coin (especially silver ones) under their authority, at least in their homeland, Scandinavia. They actually imitated how the king of the English could do in Late Viking Age by inviting English moneyers into newly established towns and issuing the first silver coin in Anglo-Saxon style like . Instead, the Viking Age Scandinavians valued silver primarily in weight, so the English silver pennies must have been precious one in their society.
There was another reason that the Scandinavians turned their attention "again" to England. In fact, the number of the recorded Viking raids was generally decreasing in the West in the first half of the 10th century. Some scholars (especially economic historians and archaeologists) tried to explain this ebb and flows of Viking invasions from a point of view of changing the source of silver for Scandinavian society: In late 9th and early 10th centuries, the Scandinavians imported very large quantity of Islamic silver coins originated in Central Asia, in exchange of fur in the far North and slaves, as testified by some Arab authors who witnesses their activity in Russian waterways as well as as far near the Caspian Sea. A famous , found in 2007 near York, dated to the late 920s, indeed includes minted in Samarkand around 910-915 by the authority of Samanid emirates in Central Asia. Vikings participated in this global exchange of wealth (silver) between the East and the West. However, the inflow of this "Eastern" silver into [Eastern] Scandinavia firstly seriously decreased, then stop by the last decades of the 10th century. Thus, the Scandinavians must have sought to explore another source of silver, important for their political economy at that time.
So, the last section of part I above shows how the global supply of silver, the medium of the political economy of the Viking chieftain, affected the destination of the Vikings. The last question I'll address in this part also sheds some additional light on this point, mainly concerns the possible source of silver for the English fine quality silver pennies.
About the same time as the inflow of Islamic silver coins into Scandinavia decreased, some new silver mines had found in Latin West, but it was not located in England. It is true that England and Wales had some small scale of silver mines, as mentioned in Domesday Book in 1086, but Allen estimates that the production of these mines would hardly meet the demand to establish the abundant and regular circulation of silver pennies under the royal authority in late Anglo-Saxon and Anglo-Norman England (Allen 2011).
It was Harz mountains in Germany, especially around Goslar that the new large-scale silver mine was found in around 960 CE, and it was the first symptom of successive medieval "silver rushes" that the Europeans would encounters up to the beginning of the 13th century.
Thus, the trade was indeed the important key to wealth [silver bullion and coins] in Northern Europe in the end of the 1st millennium, and England had not only a favorable geographical location by the North Sea (on the opposite side they could find the silver mine as well as the destination of their product, wool), but also an administration machinery to control this wealth.
the number of wars fought for britain is definitely far less than the one fought for the control of the crown of France, of the Imperial title in Germany or even for the control of the free cities of Northern Italy. aren't the wars fought for conquering england in the timeframe indicated the "standard minimum" for any region in early medieval europe?
Then, the last peace of puzzle came back into scene: The flourish of the trade in Anglo-Saxon England. The development of woolen cloth trade integrated late Anglo-Saxon England further into the economic networks around the North Sea, whose hub was the Low countries and powered by this newly found Harz-Goslar silver mines. Bolton argues that the meticulously formulated Anglo-Saxon economic policy, designed for attracting Harz-Goslar silver into England, in exchange of the exported wool ware, enabled the kingdom-wide taxation system though silver pennies (Bolton 2012: 93).
It is difficult to formulate the answer that can be valid for the wider period as well as the geography, so I instead chose to concentrate upon the attraction of England for the Vikings. Of course, the main reason for the invasion led by Prince Louis of France in the early 13th century could be different.