In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Abbott said he asked Biden to declare the Mexican cartels terrorist organizations so we can deploy our military to Mexico and fight them. Abbott also said he has built a make-shift wall on the El Paso border with containers and razor wire to help stop the flow of immigrants.
Yeah, the fact that Biden just talked to a bunch of cops when he was down there and never even looked at a migrant tells you how much of a joke this was.
If Abbott is so concerned about this, why didn’t he ask Trump to declare the cartels terrorist organizations while Trump was in office? Why wasn’t Abbott calling to send our military to go fight in Mexico against cartels while Trump was President? Are you telling me the cartels are any more dangerous now than they were 2 years ago while Trump was President?
And why is Abbott having to build a make-shift wall on the El Paso border anyway? Trump promised to build a wall across the entire border. Why didn’t Abbott ask Trump to start building in El Paso if that was Abbott’s biggest concern? And Trump had 4 years to work with Abbott on building the wall. They got nothing accomplished. They built nothing. Now Abbott wants to blame Biden because Trump didn’t build the wall he promised?
Go talk to Trump, Governor Abbott. You had 4 years to do whatever you wanted on that border and build whatever walls and declare whatever cartels terrorists and have Trump send our military to go fight them. But you and Trump did nothing. You want to complain to someone, go look in the mirror and go talk to your boy Trump.
The caravans only appear when there's an upcoming US election they need to gin up some hatred for. Otherwise, when their guy is in charge, some performative wall building/grifting is sufficient.