So the story is the family left an autistic kid unattended, the kid got into a strangers car who was under the influence of alcohol, the man accelerates towards Israeli soldiers trying ramming them and gets shot.
Claim of the Israeli soldiers is disputed by eyewitnesses. Footage of the incident for some reason starts late - so there’s no evidence provided indicating they did what they said they did. Or what they did was reasonable.
Palestine doesn’t have a legitimate country, it should never be anything more than an idea. I am not a Zionist by any stretch, but the majority of Palestinians directly support the terrorist-regime, HAMAS, and supporting a group who would treat the Israelis like the Nazis treated those in concentration camps is unconscionable.
Also, these are Israel forces patrolling Palestine’s country, occupied west bank. Sucks to be shot by foreign occupying forces on your own soil. No chance of investigation or justice. Cops act differently when they know they can’t be held accountable.
I’m also finding it hard to believe the driver was “surprised” that IDF was flagging him down and that an eyewitness would be able to see that.
This is a tragedy for this family, but those eyewitnesses are Palestinian and have a lot of sympathy and support to gain from the international community by alleging police brutality, even though these actions could be completely justified. In most courts around the world, police reports are more trusted and can be used to prove what happened. I don’t like it either, but that’s the way it is.
I care about human life; the girl dying is tragic as I said in the original comment. Fact of the matter is, the Palestinian people elected terrorists to lead their people. Unless they denounce HAMAS, they are complicit in terrorism.
Israeli forces have been caught lying before. They shoot a lot of people every year. They aren’t “police”. They are an foreign occupying force. They do not have any form of accountability with the nation they commit crimes in.
And Palestinians haven’t lied? Ok, bud, keep defending terrorists in the fake nation of Palestine. The IDF don’t have any accountability in the “country” they’re occupying? So they basically act like American police, which is why I called them “police.”.
Would you call witnesses at that location with that amount of history impartial? This seems like one of this simplest explanation is the most likely one - the driver went past the numerous signs saying to stop, didn’t, and was fired about. The fact the girl is autistic is completely irrelevant, there’s no way the soldiers could have not and was inserted by the media for an emotional response.
“Palestine isn’t a legit country” is incredibly disturbing propaganda that has been used frequently in history to dehumanise and kill a lot of people.