It doesn't. The original order states both our locations, a revised order moves my son to his dad's house and reduces the time my daughter spends there (at her dad's request, not mine, ftr), and it has the location where we meet for handoff.
I've moved a few times over the years and always made sure he had the address, both because I thought it was required legally, and appropriate morally -- like I said, they're also his kids.
Now that it's become an issue, I'm no longer sure where I got the impression it was a legal expectation, and therefore whether or not it actually is.
If your order doesn't require him to provide an address for where the child will be during his time then you really don't have cause to violate the order and refuse to let the child go. Make a polite documented (text, email) request for the info. If they decline then you would have to go back to court to modify the order to require that information.
A brief read through of doesn't indicate a requirement in law that you be notified of the child's address during visitation. Absent a requirement in your custody agreement, it does not appear that he has to tell you.
Further note: read the order again and see if there is a section on vacation or out of state travel. Boilerplate custody agreements in many states have a requirement that when the child travels out of state, the other parent must be notified of itinerary, temporary addresses and phone numbers, etc.
If it’s not mentioned in the custody agreement, there’s not much you can do legally aside from getting the agreement amended.
A practical solution would be if your child has a cell phone with location services enabled (that you own). You can check the location that way.
Thanks. I don't have any intention of violating the order over it, but I really strongly wanted to know where she'd be. If there was some state law or something, I'd have been able to send a screenshot along with what would have been the third request, but clearly the answer is that I drop it.
She does (she and her bf actually installed life360 and then came and directed me to do so as well) but I'm told there's no service in the new place. It still ought to at least get me the general area though.
Thank you. I've read the order approximately a million times due to a conflict a few years ago, so I definitely know it doesn't say anything about travel etc. (We've taken the kids a few places so this wouldn't be the first time that was relevant.) Clearly it's not information I have a right to, and I just have to accept that.