It is absolutely stunning that Brazil is the example of democracy and the rule of law now as the US keeps sliding further into authoritarianism and an illegitimate justice system. It’s not even close the comparison of the two democracies. One has wealth hoarded at the top by an unaccountable few and the other reacts swiftly when the rule of law is violated even by the powerful and well connected. First the Scandinavian countries copied the new deal and the capitalist-socialist policies from the 40s and 50s to become thriving democratic countries with social safety nets and happy people and then Brazil shows the world what the rule of law is suppose to look like. How utterly embarrassing and shameful to squander such things to benefit the 1%.
Dude... Brazil isn't your happy rule of law land. The corruption is fierce, even if some of this might be correct or all correct - Brazil struggles with keeping law tight.
As bad as Brazil is they just showed they are better and more capable of the rule of law than the US. I agree that Brazil is not the ideal to uphold but it is somehow many factors better at maintaining democracy than the US. That is the sad, pathetic truth.
I mean, On the one hand, we are shown propaganda about how bad brazil is occasionally and go "Yea that is a horrible corrupt place".
On the other hand, we are shown news every day about how bad the USA has gotten and just sorta shrug and go 'this is fine'.
Seems like everywhere could prob do better and we shouldn't put up with this shit anywhere, reguardless what other countries are doing, or not doing.
Democracy is one thing that if you do not defend and protect it you will have another system that will probably be much worse. You can slip a bit in other areas and be able to correct them but if you lose a democracy whoever or whatever comes next won’t honor or uphold anything you believe in. Everywhere has corruption but not everywhere has democracy and we know in stark terms what happens at the end of democracy by looking at Iran, Myanmar, Russia, Afghanistan and many other authoritarian nations around the world. I think it’s a bit different than talking about corruption or high crime rates.