The story you’re probably thinking of is about Reynald of Chatillon, who was captured by Saladin at the Battle of Hattin in 1187. Saladin brought Reynald to his tent:
(In fact I wrote a post about this incident \- there are several eyewitness accounts but only this one from Baha ad-Din Ibn Shaddad mentions that Saladin offered to let him convert.).
The crusaders themselves did not seem to have the same hope. Around 1200 - so, the decade after Hattin and the Third Crusade, when the crusader kingdom was re-established along the coast, with it’s capital at Acre - one crusader legal text says that if an unmarried knight flees to Muslim territory, his property will be confiscated by his lord. But if the knight is married, his wife can inherit his territory as long she marries someone else. This is the opposite of what Pope Alexander suggested. The same set of laws say that if a knight is captured in battle and is returned, he can keep his land, as long as he swears that he never converted during his captivity. So they must have considered that conversion was a likely outcome and didn’t quite fully trust anyone who came back.
Most crusaders probably wouldn’t have taken this offer, especially if it was ever offered to members of military orders like the Hospitallers or Templars. In their case it would have only been to attempt to humiliate them or tease them before executing them, since they were considered to be particularly vicious enemies of Islam and they were executed instead of being taken prisoner.
But most knights could be taken captive and it seems that sometimes they did convert. We don’t really have any accounts written by them personally, but occasionally they are mentioned in other sources. For example, the Damascene poet and ambassador Usama Ibn Munqidh often saw captive crusaders around Shaizar, his family’s castle in northern Syria. They weren’t always knights, but sometimes included women and children as well:
So here, a woman and her children were taken captive in a raid, and the woman’s son converted to Islam. Usama renders his name as “Ra’ul” so his name was probably Raoul in French. Some time later, he had his own family, and eventually they fled back to the crusaders in nearby Apamea. But this was many years later - probably at least ten years or more. This is a recurring theme whenever either side wanted to convert. Could they be trusted? Usama suggests that Christians who became Muslims were faithless and would run away as soon as they could. The crusaders were paranoid about this as well - and so were Christians in Europe. In Spain for example they were always afraid that “conversos” were actually “crypto-Muslims” (or “crypto-Jews”), who pretended to be Christian but still practised their old religion.
On the crusader side, they were also worried that people would just simply go over to the Muslim side willingly, without being captured in battle or in a raid. In the 1160s, the historian William of Tyre wrote about this to Pope Alexander III, who responded:
Later in the 13th century it seems that anyone who ran away (or had been captured) and converted, and then came back, was pretty much ostracized and left to their own devices. Pope Urban IV, who had been patriarch of Jerusalem before becoming Pope and probably understood the situation well, wrote a letter to the crusaders in 1264 about two specific converts:
In short, if one spouse runs away and becomes a Muslim, the other spouse can’t remarry because they are still married according to the church. The church held out hope that the spouse who converted might change their mind and come back.
So we don’t have any accounts by the converts themselves, but other sources do take note of them, and it seems that people would convert willingly or unwillingly often enough that it became an issue for the church and for the crusader legal system. They were supposed to be supported, like the “prodigal son” in the Gospels, but in reality they were looked at with suspicion and distrust by both Muslims and Christians.
Baha ad-Din ibn Shaddad, The Rare and Excellent History of Saladin, trans. D.S. Richards (Ashgate, 2002).
Usama ibn Munqidh, The Book of Contemplation: Islam and the Crusades, trans. Paul M. Cobb (Penguin Classics, 2008).
Yvonne Friedman, Encounter Between Enemies: Captivity and Ransom in the Latin Kingdom of Jerusalem (Brill, 2002).
Benjamin Z. Kedar, "Multidirectional conversion in the Frankish Levant", in Franks, Muslims, and Oriental Christians in the Latin Levant (Ashgate, 2006).
Benjamin Z. Kedar, Crusade and Mission: European Approaches Toward the Muslims (Princeton University Press, 1988).
I can't think of any, unfortunately...in the context of the crusades I think all the converts we know about are mentioned second-hand. Definitely no one as well-known as Donin, as far as I'm aware. But that would be super interesting!
Thanks for the great answer. This is a really interesting phenomenon rarely talked about in popular media of this period. Do you happen to know if there was any propaganda written by converts to either side to encourage others to follow their example, similar to the role played by Nicholas Donin in the Disputation of Paris?
I'm really intrigued by these voluntary convertites. What would have motivated them? Could they somehow expect a better quality of life if they switched over to the Muslim side? It's probably difficult to answer, but are there perhaps at least clues in sources talking about the economic situation and general well-being of Christians living in the crusader states?
For voluntary conversions, before the crusaders arrived (but also while they were there, and after they left), non-Muslims paid a special tax, the jizya, so there was always a financial incentive to convert - you'd no longer have to pay an extra tax. In areas that the crusaders ruled, the tax worked the opposite way - now it was Muslims who paid it to the crusaders. Maybe Muslims converted to Christianity so they wouldn't have to pay it, but I can think of a few examples where Muslims just packed up and moved to Muslim territory if they didn't want to be taxed/mistreated. And if Christians didn't have to pay the tax under the crusaders, that wouldn't be a reason for them to convert to Islam, so I don't think we can look to that as a reason.
Whenever people converted either way (from Islam to Christianity or vice versa, or from Judaism to either of the two), it was depicted as a victory for the obvious superiority of the convert's new religion. Converts have "come out of the darkness of superstition" or rejected their heretical beliefs or similar phrases. So, unfortunately, accounts written by religious writers aren't much help since they were already convinced of their correctness of their dogma.
So even if we don't really know, I don't think we can discount the possibility that converts just felt it was good to convert, even if they didn't get any specific social/economic benefit out of it. Whatever the case, conversion happened often enough that secular and ecclesiastical authorities took note of it, but it probably happened very rarely overall. Most people (Christian or Muslim) were really rigidly attached to their own faith and weren't interested in converting, or even learning anything about another religion.
I didn't think of that, maybe it really could have been as simple as those people being intrigued by a religion that they after all got to encounter first hand for the first time in their lives. It's so interesting because stories like this are very different from what the general narrative of the Crusades looks like. Thank you for the insight!
Yeah they're pretty intriguing! At least conversions by prisoners taken in battle are a little easier to understand - some of them probably converted out of sheer terror, especially if the alternative was prison, slavery, or even death. If they converted, but were released/escaped and came back and became Christians again, maybe they weren't totally accepted back into society, but other people could understand why that happened.