In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Edit: the article I read was from 2019 quoting his friend GLC - he said he would never wear the maga hat again and was doing it to get people out of jail or something like that. I do remember now something about a woman in Florida being released? I dunno, but obviously that didn’t last! So yeah. I don’t think there’s anything behind this other than he’s a weird asshole who is likely having a very public manic episode.
"never heard of him, never heard of the guy. We had many people over for dinner that night. Lots of people. This Nick guy, he just happened to be sitting across the table from me. Never seen him before in my life. But there were lots of people there. And there were were very fine people.. on both sides".
This is who Trump (as usual I might add), says he doesn't know. Just any random person can have dinner with him at a country club, where he had classified information.
It’s an interesting thought. I admit I wondered about whether or not his visit was genuine or if he was just trolling trump. I mean, Ye does show some narcissistic tendencies and he has a huge ego, so I could see his request to have trump be his VP as being genuine (especially if he’s in a manic episode right now). However, if it wasn’t a genuine request and was asked just to piss Trump off and troll him, then I could totally see him bringing Fuentes for the negative publicity that would fall on trump too. And many in the GOP are trying to dump trump, so I wouldn’t be totally surprised if we were to later find out someone sent Ye and Fuentes to have dinner with him just to add to the negative publicity.
But more likely is that he’s having a manic episode and has no qualms in showing people who he really is.
As for the whole “taking everything down from the inside” thing, I’m not sure it goes that deep. I have a very vague memory of reading something about him saying he put the maga hat on to meet trump only so he could get something he wanted and not because he supported him, but I can’t remember where I read that and who knows how true that was. If he’s doing a performance art-type thing, then he’s damn committed if he’s willing to lose billions of dollars.