Your post does not appear to contain an answerable question. Please see for examples of questions that we cannot answer.
Please . If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, . Do not make a second post or comment.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
Here’s another example, and I meant just selling the video muted with digital edits. I know Nathan Apodaca (cranberry juice guy) sold his with no sound.
You cannot sell songs that you did not write or that you don’t have permission to remix. It’s technically not even legal to post them on TikTok, but most of the time you’ll be fine as long as you don’t catch the attention of the original song writer. YouTubers used get sent cease and desist letters simply for having a song playing in the background of their video. So you’re already on shaky ground remixing someone else’s music on TikTok. The only way it would be legal is if you changed enough about the song that it became something new or almost unrecognizable.
This whole video is gonna be trouble. You’ll need to blur or block off the whole TV. You can’t mention the name of the show. Thanos is a copyrighted character so you can’t show his face. The Coke bottle has to be blurred or blocked. The glove is probably fine since it’s a toy anyone can buy, but don’t quote me on that. And obviously any recognizable music would need to changed or removed. By the time you’ve finished it would be a totally different video and it would be only barely understandable. You’d honestly be better off writing your own song and making a video around a unique concept.
If you’re just looking to sell the clips with no sound, you’ll still need to do all of the blurring and blocking so no logos or recognizable intellectual property is visible.