In 1414-1418, the western Church held the Council of Constance to end that time when they had three popes. In 1441, the Council of Florence tried to reunite the western (pre-Catholic) and eastern (pre-Orthodox) Church(es). There were Ethiopian monks present at both councils.
There was also that time in 1407 when a Spanish (Aragonese) man went to Ethiopia and ended up its ambassador to India and China.
The western Christian crusaders and colonists in the crusader states encountered a reasonably-sized Ethiopian presence there, and probably in Alexandria as well.
I don't want to oversell the scale of these connections (except for the part where Rome gave the Ethiopian Orthodox Church a church in Rome, and then a better one. Or when Aragon and Ethiopia tried to negotiate a marriage alliance, but their messengers kept disappearing/dying en route.) The prevalence of monks among the Ethiopians in 14th-15th century western Europe suggests the community depended on immigrants instead of being self-sustaining.
And even so, the connection between skin color and geographic/ethnic/family origin was…loose. Stealing directly from an earlier answer of mine: here's a . Here's a . Here's a Here's one from . Heck, here's one .
Why should that surprise us? A person of any color in medieval Spain or medieval France was...a Castilian or a French person, right?
[New again] Still there's plenty of evidence for both (a) people with skin tones possibly all over the spectrum in medieval Europe--i.e. Europeans (b) that direct evidence is NOT comprehensive, at ALL.
One of the most intriguing and perplexing sets of art in the whole Middle Ages comes from thirteenth-century Magdeburg in Germany. Sometime between 1220 and 1250, an unknown person patronized, and an unknown artist(s) created, a statue of the church's main saint--who looks like our stereotype of a sub-Saharan African, in terms of facial features and hair. St. Maurice shows up in stained glass as black at that time. But...not elsewhere. That only starts later.
In most art and literature, we are NOT dealing with nuances of color. [Stealing again] In romance literature, 'Saracen' characters sometimes have their skin change from black to "white as milk" when they convert from Islam to Christianity (Cursor mundi, 14th century). In the most famous German take on Arthuriana, Parzival, Feirefiz has a Muslim parent and a Christian parent, and...is spotted. The Estoria de Espana blasts the conquering Saracens:
and the Song of Roland says about Saracen character Abisme that he is "black as pitch," with the archbishop wishing, "This Saracen seems quite heretical; it would be much better if I were to kill him.".
...So now after my chunk of not-self-plagiarism, let's talk about some of the evolution of all that. Also a very hot topic in medieval right now. .
More to the point is that skin color—and the absolute polarity of it—is as ideological then as today. And as you have guessed, it has become moral. “White” signifies good; “black” signifies bad; it doesn’t matter what skin color people actually are.
So this is really important because first of all, Maurice wasn't a new fictional hero of the romances (where skin color was—suffice to say that the son of a Muslim and a Christian could have spotted skin). He was a Christian, a hero, and a saint. But also--where did the sculpture and its model come from? The German St. Maurices are an island in western Christian depictions of skin color that are as just as ideological as the attention this question is getting. .
This is a hot topic in medieval scholarship right now, so nothing I say will be the final word. (I have some things in earlier answers that at some point I should go back and delete...Oops.).
Thank you for the comprehensive answer. Could you elaborate on this coy ending note? I don't really understand what you mean by the metaphorical or ideological appearance of someone.
You'll notice a pattern here: dark skin, in medieval writing, is associated much more closely with Islam than with Africa, much less Ethiopia. By the 14th century, Latin Europeans looked to Ethiopia to save them from Muslims.
First, of course, there's the issue that late medieval artists really did not care about an "accurate" mental image of the Roman Empire or really any earlier era. In the Exodus story (Moses, parting the Red Sea, &c), “Pharo” is depicted living in a very late medieval European-style castle. They weren’t going for historical accuracy.