Hi there - we're happy to approve your question related to your novel, and we are happy for people to answer. However, we should warn you that many flairs have become reluctant to answer questions for aspiring novelists, based on past experience: some aspiring novelists have a tendency to try to pump historians for trivia while ignoring the bigger points they were making, while others have a tendency to argue with historians when the historical reality does not line up with what's needed for a particular scene or characterization. Please respect the answers of people who have generously given you their time, even if it's not always what you want to hear.
Additionally, as amazing as our flair panel is, we should also point out that /r/AskHistorians is not a professional historical consultation service. If you're asking a question here because you need vital research for a future commercial product such as a historical novel, you may be better off engaging a historical consultant at a fair hourly rate to answer these questions for you. We don't know what the going rate for consultancy work would be in your locality, but it may be worth looking into that if you have in-depth or highly plot-reliant questions for this project. Some /r/AskHistorians flairs could be receptive to working as a consultant in this way. However, if you wish for a flair here to do this work for you, you will need to organize this with them yourselves.
Thank you so much! I read the answer, and I completely understand /u/agentdcf and their concerns about the morals, life-goals, ambition, and culture that are being represented in a story. It's taken quite a bit of research on my part to get into the mindset, and even then, I'm not sure I would have understood as much if not from my religious background (I'm Secular Roman Catholic, more 'Culturally Catholic' than anything, but I feel that my background has given me a good view of how important the church and religion was in the eyes of the people). One of the things that's helped me most in the modern morals v. morals of the time/characters struggle is undoubtedly the similarities between then in now. Family, duty, honor, not only are these the House Tully words but these were what I started with when comparing the morals of the different cultures and characters, taking in experience, location, and temperment as well when I began to write.
Awesome Thank you so much And don't worry, I have no intention of arguing about any historical fact or primary sources; this period/time is wrapped in much conspiracy, propaganda, and various claims, even the chroniclers' writings are brought into question! Although my goal is to portray each character through their own eyes and thoughts, I want to keep reader's interpretation of the characters to flow, let people come up with their own opinions and let them see different perspectives from the different characters.
I will look more into historical consultanty as well I am hoping to do such a thing after my first draft, fix any historical inaccuracies or things that would not make sense historically I have taken a more Georg RR Martin-like approach to the POV chapters, but my main inspiration is 'The Killer Angels' by Michael Shaara, who was able to create a fluid and engaging story while portraying each character perhaps with a sympathetic view, but remarkably based on personal diaries, letters, and accounts from soldiers and those who knew them. I hope to do the same, although where he had one battle over the span of a few day with many written accounts about 100 years before he first wrote his book, I have a whole year where there are fewer specific accounts separated by over 950 years. I hope to do justice to the time period, these people, and their stories!
The biggest thing I'd have to say I love to do the most when I encounter a different moral or something that modern readers may question, I tend to present a scenario for it to be questioned. People hated the ruler, the church, and ways things were done, similar to the way we do today! Some were more bold than others, and some had reason or the power to do so, others only spoke of such matters with their close friends and family. Beliefs counter to the socially accepted belief exist everywhere, 1066 England is no exception. But as for making a work today about past events in a different place and culture, it is important to put your reader into the character's minds, their status, morals, and beliefs, as well as their take on the people and the world around them. I'm hoping that once the story is said and done, I'll provide a sort of 'codex' to help put the reader into the lives of the people, the culture, or at least provide a better transition into characters.