While I haven't come across one in my studies, I would reckon the probability for one in existence is higher than 50%.
The reason being that it is a General Staff's responsibility to ponder military plans for pretty much any conceivable contingency (see my previous comment in a thread on a different topic ). Vice versa, I know for a fact that Western nuclear planning at least discussed sometime in the 1960s that a Soviet push through (neutral) Austria into Southern Germany and Northern Italy might "require" a "closing" of the "Austrian flank" by laying nuclear waste to Austria to ensure a complete halt of a Soviet advance through that territory (one can only imagine what the implied civilian casualties of such a plan were). Horrible plans are made all the time. That does not mean anyone is seriously pushing for them to be turned into action. A military planning staff's job is to provide estimates of a realizability of any necessary option in case of war. Often, such plans merely contribute to a discussion about how the outcome of such plans is not desirable. The fact that we have, in the East German/Soviet case for the invasion of West Germany, actual physical evidence for a realizable invasion (street signs and medals already printed, going way beyond a mere military contingency plan) only shows that the Warsaw pact plan for the invasion of West German and Western Europe was considered a desirable option. The fact that we do not have evidence (yet) of a concrete Warsaw pact plan to invade Switzerland the same way makes it, in my opinion, likely, that such plan was not high on the agenda, but I would be surprised if a pure military plan to invade Switzerland did not exist. I hope that makes sense.
Why were street signs printed? Were they Russian signs to help soldiers find their way, or like, properly Socialist street names to replace any named after aristocrats or nobles they encountered?
My understanding is that East Germany in particular had a comprehensive plan to take over West Germany and forge it into a united socialist Germany under the aegis of the SED (East Germany's Communist Party). As part of that plan, they had developed a good number of detailed plans how to mold West Germany into the East German system (e.g. how to take over industry, incorporate state structures, organizations, labor unions, etc). And as part of that, they had already printed street signs (including the renaming of same well known West German streets into "proper communist" street names, like turning Düsseldorf's famous "bourgeois capitalist" Königsallee into Karl-Marx-Allee.) Obviously this was less part of a military plan but one with political intent, therefore showing that their military plan had actual political goals behind it and was serious. \[Warsaw pact maps of the West were pretty good, they certainly did not need to rename streets to find their way around\].
East Germany may have had a plan for a unified socialist Germany but I'm not sure how much the Soviet politburo would be interested in that happening...
It was one of the great ironies of the post 1989 German unification process that the part of Germany that claimed it was responsible for the whole Germany once truly free (West Germany) did not have the slightest plan ready how to actually unite with the East, while Communist East Germany had well prepared for the final victory of communism over capitalism, only to find it was happening the other way round. I vividly remember (and I am sorry to bring this piece of personal memory into the subreddit) an early 1990s German TV talk show, where various politicians discussed the problems of the economic chaos of German unification, and one (former East German) intellectual fumed that "we had plans galore in East Germany how to take over the West, and you \[West Germans\] haven't got the faintest clue how to do this." Much embarrassed laughter in the audience.