No. I have received no paperwork whatsoever, actually. All I was ever told was (paraphrased) "A department that no one can actually contact has looked at your dispute, received records from the court, and they have concluded there is no reason to change the background check's findings.".
That no one can reach their dispute resolution department is questionable. That they never--according to a courthouse I trust well above a company with hundreds of complaints online--never actually requested records they claim to have received points to deliberate negligence.
Background screening companies mostly use a 3rd party vendor when contacting county courts for record requests. That or their public records department within the company submits a request electronically. Have you requested a copy of your report from first advantage?
What was faulty about the background check? What is the company saying you did that you didn’t do? Most records check are done electronically so the court wouldn’t have records of a search done for you anyways.
The issue is that they claim to have records of a pending case from several years ago. As to your second point, in this case, the company representatives have consistently and repeatedly said that they request via email records of this supposedly pending case. (The courthouse has confirmed that not only do they not accept records requests via email, but their records departments never received any communication regarding me from the company.).
So there is an actual case? Is it still pending? Doesn’t matter how they found the info, and it doesn’t matter if you were convicted or not. You can be fired or denied employment simply because you were accused of a crime.
There is no case. The district attorney's office declined to prosecute. Therefore, according to the district attorney's office, there should have been no record. In this instance, however, the background check company reported they found something which is factually incorrect--and I have proof of that statement--but they seem to have outright refused to investigate my claim.
My background check returned information stating that, over four years later, I still had a pending court date. The effect of this incorrect information is that whoever or whatever examined my background was not informed of the case not being brought to trial, which might make someone suspect I am therefore guilty. I am here trying to find out of my argument holds water, and the argument being thus: If a company conducts a background check, returns factually incorrect or inaccurate information, and then refuses to correct their mistake, are they then liable for lost wages from employment lost due to their negligence?
I could understand them using a third party, but the courthouse (civil records and criminal records divisions) have no record of receiving a request for anything with my name on it.
I was accused of a misdemeanor some years ago. I can only state that the law I was accused of breaking was not a violent crime. However, the district attorney's office declined to prosecute the case because (1) I entered and completed a pre-trial diversionary program and (2) it was later discovered that the evidence against me was questionable at best.
That they have so far apparently failed in their duties and responsibilities is unsurprising. Even a brief online search reveals hundreds of not thousands of complaints against the company which are similar to mine.
Due to FCRA compliance you are legally obligated to a copy of your report. They can email it to you or mail you a paper copy. That should of been one of the first items covered in the dispute process. That and to confirm your pii (full name, dob, ssn and sometimes address).
So at some point you were accused of a crime? What was was the crime? What is factually incorrect about the background check? And why is it incorrect? Being ambiguous isn’t going to help anyone here lead you in the right direction. If you can’t elaborate more then pay for a consult with an employment attorney.