This is absolutely not to discourage other answers, but a good place to start is with a previous I wrote, which I'll repost below (with a few edits for clarity):
It should also be pointed out that on paper at least, the Soviet constitution had quite a few guarantees for personal rights, such as freedom of speech, assembly and religion. The issue of course was that the constitution also allowed the government wide-ranging powers in determining when those rights could be curbed for security reasons. The 1977 constitution even gave Soviet Socialist Republics the right of secession, interestingly enough.
The "Soviet" part of Soviet democracy refers specifically to the sort of councils that were (in theory at least) supposed to be at the heart of the governmental system. But even this term could really vary significantly in what it meant over time. The Petrograd Soviet in 1917 was essentially a self-organized conference of delegates elected by workers in the city, many-to-most of whom were members of a variety of different socialist parties. In contrast, the "Supreme Soviet" in, say, Russia in 1937 or in 1975, just meant the national legislature. In both cases, these terms pre-dated and the Soviet Union and Bolshevik/Communist rule, and in certain cases would be used after 1991 as well - the Supreme Soviet was the name of the national legislature in the Russian Federation until the adoption of a new constitution in 1993 for example. As an aside, the word soviet in Russian literally means "advice".
The Soviet Union actually had three constitutions over its lifespan: one adopted in 1924, one adopted in 1936, and one adopted in 1977. The soviet socialist republics all had their own constitutions as well (the 1978 Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic constitution is the one that was replaced in 1993), which were updated and replaced on a number of occasions, usually in tandem with changes at the Union level. What I'll describe is mostly based on the 1936 constitution, as that was the longest one in use.
The Union was federal, so there was a Union-wide legislature, and administrative government, as well as an equivalent on the republic levels, and on a provincial and local level as well. All of the legislative positions were directly elected according to universal adult suffrage, but, these were single-candidate elections - basically, the Communist Party nominated someone to run, and that candidate might be a party member, or might not (often particular demographics like trade union members would be included even if they weren't enrolled in the party), but all candidates were party approved.
Party membership was far more restrictive than universal suffrage, reaching at highest something like 10% of the population in the late 1970s-early 1980s. In theory, the lower levels of the party elected the higher levels, all the way up to the Party Congress, which met every few years to elect the Central Committee, which in turn filled the seats of the Politburo (policy bureau) and Secretariat. However, in reality the flow was usually top-down instead of bottom-up: lower levels elected those party candidates that were approved for the position, especially by the Secretariat, which gained immense power when Stalin took on the role in 1924. By the later stages of the Stalin years, the Congress had ceased to meet, and even the Central Committee and Politburo met infrequently and more informally than in previous years. The situation reversed after Stalin when collective leadership became more the style, but the office of General Secretary and the primacy of the Politburo remained paramount until the reforms that Gorbachev instituted from 1985 on.
Of course, the element that truly set the Soviet constitutional structure apart was the role played by the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. It had a constitutional monopoly on power - no other political parties were legal until 1990, and the party was organized in parallel to governmental structures, so there was a local, provincial, republican and union-wide Party committee (kind of a legislature) and Party secretariat (kind of like an executive government) that paralleled the state structures.
I find schematic diagrams to be very helpful in understanding constitutional structures, and so from Hermann Kinder and Werner Hilgemann's Anchor Atlas of World History Volume 2 should be helpful in getting a conceptual visual of the system.
For the first few years after 1917 really until the consolidation of power under Stalin, there was a rather lively debate in the party and different opposing factions were build.