You're just going to have to keep calling attorneys, or contact the Indiana bar association, to find an attorney. There are attorneys who will take this on.
You can't stop people from suing. (You can sometimes stop certain individuals from suing over and over.).
There really isn't a viable way of doing that. But an attorney can tell you what you can do. For $2,000 it's not worth it to settle IMO, settle for what, $1,000? I'd rather risk losing $2,000 than settle over something so blatantly unfair as you describe. Now for $200,000...
Yeah so that last bit is the TRULY frustrating bit because just to even show evidence to refute their claims, we’ll need an attorney, which is going to cost over $2000. My parents were thinking we could offer the original $250 to settle out of court and mention that the tapes refute their claims.
Yeah, we understand that it wouldn’t be setting a legal precedent but we’d like to show that we’re not going to just keep settling frivolous lawsuits.
Your parents may want to get a liability insurance policy for their business, so that they don't have to personally spend their time on this. They can price the premiums into the products they sell.
You're going to need an attorney for that as well. Honestly there isn't a lot here that isn't "get an attorney" or "just accept it." Partially because of the LLC, and as the other commenter wrote, they should have insurance that covers this.
Sure, but as a practical matter if someone is accusing you of being racist, saying "people have sued us for that before and lost" doesn't make you look very good, and it gives them the idea to try to sue as well.
I think that’s another dilemma too because we’re being accused of racism and now we’re thinking of suing to refute those claims...it could be interpreted in a strange way, but on the same token, if we settle, there’s the risk of bolstering future claims of “racism”.
The insurance was a really good thought but my parents filed a claim for their roof some years ago and saw their premiums skyrocket so they’d rather just bite the bullet on this. Also, they’re concerned they might be dropped for making “too many claims”. I’m not sure that last statement is actually based on legitimate concerns, though.
Fixing a roof isn't like getting sued for $10 million dollars because someone slips in the store and breaks their neck. They need insurance. They don't have to use it for small claims.
They have business insurance, they’d just rather not use it for this case because they don’t want to seem like someone who files frivolous claims and risk getting dropped. They’d also rather pay episodic expense, rather than have this be drawn out in the form of grossly increased premiums over several years.