Legally speaking, if you committed some tortious act or made an omission, that would be a completely separate issue from your entitlement to wages.
Filing a complaint for your unpaid wages is not tortious, and a lawsuit on that basis would be very, very easy to defend. Even if your employer prevails, that's the only recourse they have for it. The courts will not enable him to further punish you or to demand that you pay him the costs of dealing with a good-faith wage claim.
_If_ you were a bona fide contractor, the department of labor cannot help you recover your wages, as you were not an employee and they can only help with employment disputes. However, they may find that you were miscategorized. Otherwise, you'll have to sue him - probably in small claims - over _his_ breach of contract.
Thank you for taking the time to reply. Would it be considered illegal for him to try to dissuade me from.
Why do you feel you were an independent contractor and not an employee? The DOL has specific guidelines for the classification as a contractor vs an employee. Perhaps you could discuss that issue also as you requested information on filing a wage claim.
As an employer myself, your brief description is what can open a whole lot of grief for your employer and was rather foolish on the bosses part. Dealing with the DOL isn’t fun and gets expensive very quickly. The boss really doesn’t want that grief. Employees don’t know the rules because they don’t usually deal with that kind of requirements. It’s however the employer’s responsibility to understand them and excuses usually don’t work. Haha. Sorry you are having this issue but your boss may have much more problems coming his way.
Alright fair enough. Thanks again for taking the time. This guy just turned out to be a real dick so I’d like to see him face some consequences in some way.
But, this idea that you'll be sued for "not following the contract agreement" is a bit of a joke. Did you have a written contract? What does it say? If you didn't, then what actually did you agree to, and what would you have thought, at the time, the guy's damages from your leaving early would be? Chances are he doesn't have any actual damages, so doesn't have anything to sue over.
I agree that it’s an idle threat. I’ve gone over the contract and it is about 50% a really specific description of the job 30% confidentiality regarding business and tenant info I’d have access to and 20% other legal mumbo jumbo. My main question is can I get him in trouble for threatening this. He turned out to be a real POS slumlord type and I care more about him facing some repercussions than the $700 he owes me.