Did you agree in writing to leave on October 15, 2021 ? Did you surrender your keys to the landlord ?
They very probably illegally evicted you, since they didn't get a court order to grant them possession of the premises, and you didn't vacate voluntarily.
Almost every state prohibits "distress for rent", the practice of holding personal property hostage when rent or damages are owed.
Start by posting where you live, and folks might be able to help guide you to local legal resources to talk some sense into your former landlord.
I live in the US in New Mexico. It's just been looking over my head. In the lease agreement there was no security deposit. She sent me the total for the amount of time she spent cleaning and is trying to charge 800$ in cleaning. I feel like they're holding my things hostage.
Did you pay a deposit when you moved in ? Did the landlord return that deposit, or send you a written statement of the damages ? A text message or verbal statement probably doesn't count.
After a month, your stuff very probably isn't there at all, and asking police to help you gain access to retrieve it might not succeed. It's certainly one thing you can try; the term that police want to hear is a "civil standby" for you to retrieve your personal effects from the apartment.
In general, a tenant is required to leave an apartment "broom clean", and a landlord would be entitled to the labor and supplies cost to get it to that state only.
Because there was no security deposit, her only options for getting that money are for you to pay it voluntarily, or to sue you in small claims court (where she would need to prove the condition of the apartment and the cost of cleaning).
She almost certainly could not use small claims because she also performed an illegal eviction by locking you out.
New Mexico does allow "distress for rent" or "lien for rent" for some commercial tenants. But the practice was abolished for residential tenants in the 90's (), and this isn't a dispute about unpaid rent anyhow.
Your landlord has committed the civil equivalent of theft; "conversion" of your property. You can sue them for the value of your personal property in small claims court.
The legalities of this would depend on what you "left" behind, and what your lease stated, as well as the timeline involved. If your locality requires your deposit to be returned, or a statement of charges against it to be provided, within a certain time frame, and the landlord failed to adhere to those guidelines, you might be eligible for (at the minimum) the full deposit (with no deductions withheld) returned, and potentially up to 2-3x the deposit.
"In New Mexico a landlord may only evict a tenant if they receive a court order from a judge granting the eviction.