You note that you've spoken to the management company. I would send them a certified letter about the matter. That will get their attention more than a verbal complaint.
You might even take a picture of it or scan it with your phone and email it to yourself (that's what I do).
Prepare a letter, make a copy of it for your records, put it in an envelope, and take it to the post office. Tell them that you want to send it certified and they will help you add the additional labels. It doesn't cost much, but it proves that the letter was delivered.
Should I let the management company know that their tenants have no complied and I am issuing them a certified letter? Or just send the letter?
Woah. Perhaps I was unclear in my use of the word "they". I would send the certified letter to the management company, not the tenant.
The management company is probably legally responsible for the actions of their tenant. At any rate, they can threaten the tenant with fees or eviction if they fail to comply. You can only threaten the tenant with letters and complaints to the management company.
Ohhhhhhhhh gotcha gotcha…I definitely misunderstood and was about to send a letter to all the tenants lol. Thank you for clearing that up!…should I call the management company and give em a heads up about the letter or just send it to them?
Do you think I can charge the management company a fee for everyday their tenants leave their trash bins on my property instead of trying to get the waste management company to remove them if they don’t comply?
No, you don’t have any grounds to charge a company fees lol the reason management companies can charge tenants fees is because they have contracts with them. As a person you can’t just assign fees to people/companies.
> Do you know if I am allowed to do whatever I want with any objects that are in my property even if the objects don’t belong to me?
2: nobody would take a ticket, that’s the implied contract and payment. If you don’t pay to park in the lot they tow you, feel free to tow there garbage cans wherever you’d like.
You could call, if you'd like. Just keep track of who you talk to and what you told them. However, you might just let them respond to the letter if you feel that you have already clearly communicated your point to them previously.
Then inform the management company that you plan to remove the items from you property and dispose of them as you see fit.
Your easement should clearly state what your property is allowed to be used for. Any other use is illegal.
2. Then inform the management company that you plan to remove the items from you property and dispose of them as you see fit.
I’m not sure what the management company does exactly…but to be honest, I don’t think they do much other than handle billing probably.
> So I know I called it an easement but I’ve gone through the deed and all the paperwork I am aware of and no where is it written that the road they use to access their units is an actual easement. I’ve only done some light research so correct me if I’m wrong but there technically needs to be a formal and written agreement with the property owner(s) (myself and whoever owns the units behind me) acknowledging the easement and it’s intended purpose. I can technically block off my property but it will end up going to court where the judge will definitely classify it as an “easement if necessity” … but we can still draw up terms in my favor like requiring the other owner to maintain the easement since his tenants use it and I do not.