It's probably not illegal but it's a VERY bad idea for them for various reasons, including businesses expenses, taxes (theirs and yours), and tenancies (yours would have fewer rights than she would). When you provide a perk to an employee it's quite different than if you provide a free accommodation to a non-employee.
If you wouldn't mind elaborating a little bit on why it's a bad idea for the company I would appreciate the info. Another thing I've been turning over in my head is the concept that if my name is on the lease and the bills are in my name could she not just be a household member on the lease?
Only if the landlord allows it. That's how it works pretty much everywhere. Pretty much. If you try to move her in they could fire you and or evict you both.
Why would it be legal? You don't own the apartment, the owner of the building does. It is made available to whoever is caring for the building (not to the person, but to the agent acting as superintendent) so that they can quickly jump out of bed and turn off water or electric service, saving the commute time. It's not your apartment to gift to someone any more than you could transfer a credit card in your name to someone else permanently. Someone can visit you, and you can allow someone to use your card in your name, but it's not yours to transfer.
I mentioned several things above, but it doesn't really matter. It could be a good idea for them and they could still say no.
Since you are admitting you won't be on-site, ask if there is higher pay if you don't use the apartment (since it's now available as revenue). Take the money you would be paying as rent and give it to your mom. When she's gone, you'll feel good that you did right by her.
But they should not provide you with an apartment that you sublet to your mother. Hell no. The apartment would be a taxable benefit to you and an expense on their balance sheet. They could collect rent from a paying tenant otherwise.
Plus an employer apartment has specific exclusions from most landlord-tenant laws. If you get fired they don’t have to evict you - but they would have to evict your mother.