/u/KerasTasi talks very clearly about public housing being a problem for Brutalism. But depending on your definitions, the failures of public housing projects in the UK were not just about failures of Brutalist (in the strict sense of Béton brut) buildings, but the wider ideas of "vertical cities". Most of the tower blocks built in Birmingham, for example, would not pass muster as Brutalist (they were mostly "system built") but were failures for all the same reasons: windswept land, dangerous and badly maintained walkways, etc.
But it's worth looking at the fate of non-residential Brutalist buildings. There are some which have been, in broad terms, successes. Kera mentions the Barbican estate, and amongst the successes there are the Barbican theatre and concert hall. Similarly, also in London, the National Theatre is a pretty decent building: handsome to look at, effective as a theatre.
The problem here, as with so many other post-war buildings, was that it was built badly and was never finished. The original idea was that it wasn't going to be raw concrete anyway: it was going to be clad in (accounts vary) Travertine marble or Portland stone. That meant that the building never really managed to be fully water-tight, a fatal flaw in a library, as the concrete finishes were never intended to be external. There was a full programme of work for things like the undercroft (a bus station squash courts a rifle range!) and the various water features, none of which was ever finished. The money ran out, and because the building was somehow accused of a crime it didn't commit -- the demolition of the Victorian central library -- it was a marked building long before Prince Charles' criticism of it as looking like an incinerator for books.
I was a long-term user and enthusiast for the building, but only after it had been condemned did I learn about (indirectly, from Madin himself) the unused spaces on the reference floors for the desperately missed lavatories, or the small and perfectly formed theatre around the back. And although there was a concerted campaign to save it, documented in an by one of the leaders, by the time the building was under threat it was already doomed: its poor construction and compromised design saw to that.
There are other Brutalist buildings in Birmingham, some of them more successful. The best example is the (mercifully, now listed) on the university campus, which is a very handsome building indeed and looks even better now the terrible 1950s library has been cleared. However, it still wasn't a wildly successful building when first put up, having problems with draughts, overheating and poor access.
And that was the general story of Brutalist buildings. The accusation was that architects were too busy fondling books about Le Corbusier or Erno Goldfinger and not interested enough in the people that would use the buildings. In short, that they were more interested in building for their peers than for their customers. How much merit that accusation had is something that PhD theses will be written about for years to come, but I think it's hard to escape the idea that architects considered both the living and working accommodation of others differently to how they considered their own spaces.
For an encyclopaedic view of 20th century council housing, from a perspective that is quite sympathetic to the designers, it is worth setting aside a day and exploring s. A reasonable test of such a project is when it is both correct and sensible about things you know about intimately, and the things it says about places I know well are accurate. I commend it to people interested in these issues.
Thank you very much for the excellent post about Non-residential Brutalism. With regards to accusations against architects 'fondling books' rather than listening to people, it is worth noting that in a much more deferential society, the planners had a lot of leeway to redesign cities against the wishes of its residents, in a way that did not foster goodwill towards brutalism. For example, the building of a modern Brutalist shopping centre in Nottingham mandated the destruction of much of the medieval town centres, despite a public campaign by local residents.
"One unnamed official responded to the campaign by saying: "Isn't it ludicrous that a few old ladies should be allowed to spend time and money questioning the decisions of experts?"".
"I believe with passion that it is now time to call a halt. It is time to stop this piecemeal hacking away at our city. It is time to say to the GLC, to Westminster City Council, to Land Securities Investment Trust, to Town and City Properties, to the lot of them, “Gentlemen, we’ve had enough. We, the people of London, now propose to decide for ourselves what sort of city we want to live in.".
I think the problem here is that good intentions aren't enough. Given that this is a writer with a positive view both of council housing as a concept and of post-war estates in particular, it is telling that even John Boughton , and it's clear that a lot of their ideas were wrong. Goldfinger and Le Corbusier would also, if asked, have claimed a profound interest in the users of the spaces (including living for extended periods in their own buildings) and yet, here we are.
An additional success across the Atlantic is the (and better exterior photos and ). Built in the 1960s the architecture was valued enough that a 1980s expansion continued the brutalist design.
The architectural design is also carried over into the interior, which is designed around patrons' needs. Light is prevalent while the acoustics create the proper calm atmosphere.
Because Madin was a local architect deeply entrenched in the local council. You don't even have to reach for the rampant corruption which was present in a lot of the council contracts of the era, he was simply the safe, local choice. Many others of his buildings were built around the same time (the list is incomplete, because it omits for a start off , and , to think of two concrete blocks of flats). You should also not underestimate the effect of being told by a star architect that a building is great, but that you just don't understand why.
Hence lack of consultation and top-down development were a significant factor behind the dislike of Brutalist buildings and developments. As I understand it there were similar fights in the US over preservation versus redevelopment with places such as Penn Station, NYC etc?
Similarly the destruction of the old Victorian Euston Station in London, in the 1960s, in favour of a modern Brutalist building, was not well-received at the time and prompted the creation of the Victorian Society, led by poet John Betjeman in an effort to save Victorian architecture such as the nearby St.Pancras Station. In the 1970s the Greater London Council also attempted radical reshaping and 'modernising' of Covent Garden (one of the ancient shopping districts in London) - in a process that local residents claimed would be nothing less than the destruction of the area.
It seems as though architects working in every idiom have been accused of building for other architects rather than the client at one point or another. But brutalists like Alison and Peter Smithson explicitly stated that part of their project was to design for people and create communities, so this argument doesn't appear to hold water.
This also doesn't explain why brutalist designs were commissioned in the first place. In the case of the Birmingham Central Library, the city officials obviously had a choice of architect. Why would they pick this strange-looking, expensive proposal? Surely, there was something that appealed to them as non-architects, even if the end result was less than hoped.
The problem is you’re still not addressing the question posed as to why brutalism became a dominant style in the mid-twentieth century. You’re arguing that it was primarily architecture for architects (which is something both I and other historians like Kenneth Frampton reject), but then you’re not quite explaining what the architects themselves saw in it—beyond perhaps the opportunity to get one of their designs built—or how its dominant features coalesced. You’re dismissing the complex history of the development of brutalism as a style as the combination of naïve intention and some sort of politico-architectural conspiracy detached from the needs of real people.
And anyway, the original plans for the central library were lovely, and were entirely in keeping with both its local location (the stone cladding would have looked great next to the Town Hall) and more widely the idea of the time of Birmingham as a thrusting young city. I don't see why it's in opposition to point out that it was badly built and the effect was to make it bad for users (as I say, the lack of lavatories in the reference library would be an obvious example) while also praising the original design.
There’s no doubt proponents of brutalism populated the town planning departments of a number of jurisdictions in the UK and elsewhere (London County Council was responsible for building more brutalist buildings than any other organization in the world). The question is how and why this style became so influential in the first place. What solutions did it have to offer for the problems of the postwar world? Architects like the Smithsons believed their designs would efficiently address the urgent need for housing, schools, and other public facilities while remaining responsive to their inhabitants and giving their lives dignity. Clearly, others were convinced by their arguments, given the many accolades and commissions they received following the construction of the Hunstanton School.