Mentioning the makes things go faster most of the time. Or you could actually contact them and ask for help. I've never had to before though, calling and making a stink about going to the DAV because it's taking to long to get treated has always worked for me, and my dad when he was still around.
You dont have to be a member for them to help you, they pretty much exist solely for stuff like this and would be happy to assist.
Patient advocates are supposed to help, but the only one I've talked to ended up screaming at me like 2 minutes into the only phone call I made to them. So I called the main number and got in touch with the regional "patient advocate" and filed a complaint on the one that wasnt helping. The personal I filed the complaint with did everything the original PA should have.
If you're going to the ER go to the VA ER. It's usually pretty empty and while you're not going to be a priority they'll talk to you and be able to schedule you with a specialist if your general practitioner is the issue. The VA ER doctor you talk to can do literally everything your regular doctor can.
At this point it seems like all the VA is the issue, the VA ER turned him away twice the last time treating him like an addict. Irronicly their mishandling of his medical care might make him into one.
The order of escalation should be 1) Patient Advocate office, and then 2) your local Senator or Congressman's office.
I can't speak for the Patient Advocate office in every VA medical center, but I know that my local one does a fantastic job at trying to solve issues brought to their attention.
Most Senators and Congressmen have VA liaisons in their offices. I've dealt with my local ones several times, and they are usually the best way to shake something loose. The VHA (Veterans Health Administration) has congressional liaisons whose job it is to look into these problems.
You could also try a National Service Organization like Disabled American Veterans (DAV), but you may get mixed results with them. A lot of their focus is on the disability benefit side of things.
Its at least something actionable, I'm lucky I've been working from home because he has needed some intense monitoring and care.
We reached out the to Patient Advocate and I'm pretty sure they are the ONLY reason we heard anything before his appointment on the 25th but obviously I'm concerned they still aren't taking it seriously enough. I'll reach back out to them in addition to seeking help from the other avenues you mentioned.
You might try cross posting to /r/insurance, they’re full of insurance professionals over there and are pretty good at telling you how to approach insurance problems.
We dont technically have insurance. Both of us are covered as disabled vets by the VA but it's not a traditional health insurer.
Combine that with he was supposed to be in Antartica this summer and we were going to wait to get a traditional policy when he got back.