I live in Sweden and have taken som courses in history but I feel really embarassed for knowing very few books on swedish history written in English. However I managed to find these:
Thanks so much for taking the time to look for those, I will check them out. Also, absolutely no reason to feel embarrassed you don't know more books in English on Swedish history when your own language is Swedish It makes sense you've read about your history in your own language. I have no knowledge of Swedish myself and neither does my dad so unfortunately can't take your other recommendations, but your list is a great start for me to look at, thank you again.
But there are probably people with a better knowledge of swedish history in english since swedish is my native language and I have almost exclusively read about swedish history in swedish.
Your father doesn't understand swedish, does he? Because if he does I can make the list of books much longer.
Kouri, E., Olesen, J., & Cambridge University Press. (2016). The Cambridge history of Scandinavia. Volume 2, 1520-1870 (The Cambridge history of Scandinavia ; 2).
I also chime for /u/von_Tohaga's selection, and these are also almost all of the single volume/series work for the Swedish history from the Viking Age to the Modern Period. While academic monographs have increasingly been published also in English recently, the amount of reliable Anglophone books about Swedish or Scandinavian history especially for non-specialists is unfortunately quite limited.
The following books in English are more period-specific and might not be suitable for total beginners.
Sweden occupies an important role in the maritime history book on the Baltic, especially focusing on the Early Modern Period.
: is a synthesis of the history of the Baltic Sea from the Viking Age to the 21th century, and features Stockholm (during the 17th century) in its Chapter 5 and Öresund Bridge in the last chapter. It's actually a translation from the original German edition, so that's why some Anglophone readers complain about its 'dry' writing style (I've only checked the original in German, sorry).
Two books authored by David Kirby on Early modern and modern Baltic region are also decent from an academic point of view, and I hope they are not so difficult to follow for non-specialist (Robert Frost is another excellent UK expert of this period/ field, but his work might not primarily addressed out of the academic). The third book by Kirby, : is certainly more readable and interesting from the standpoint of environmental history, but Sweden unfortunately not so often appears in this book.
(Early Modern Period): If you wonder whether Anglophone works on Early Modern Sweden written by Michael Roberts are still valid, I'd say they are decent from academic point of view, at least in English. While more recent Swedish historians like late Jan Glete and Harald Gustafsson also has published a few book in English, they are primarily written for academics and sometimes difficult to get a copy out of Scandinavia.
(Viking Period): Jarman, Cat. River Kings: The Vikings from Scandinavia to the Silk Roads. London: William Collins, 2021: I don't say all of the contents in this latest book, based on the combination of traditional Viking Age study (archaeology) and modern scientific research, cannot be disputed, but this can certainly be an entertaining to read also for non-specialist in Viking/ Scandinavian history. While Swedish place names like Birka and Gotland rarely appears in its part I (about 100 pages), you'll come across more of them in the part II and after.
(Early Modern Period): :......I’ve been on the fence whether I 'recommend' this book. It is a popular-history style military history book authored by the Swedish historians, and its quality is certainly better than most of the biography/ military history book on early modern Sweden - but not enough from a standpoint of the latest academic historiography in Swedish.