Questions like this are almost impossible to answer completely because verifying the facts is so difficult, but the partial answer is that the CIA likely did not try to kill Castro 638 times.
This number you cite, 638, was originally 634, as described by Castro's secret service head, Fabian Escalante, in his book "Executive Action: 634 Ways to Kill Castro," later made into a 2007 documentary named "638 Ways to Kill Castro", and also later recreated as an epic 8-part miniseries produced by Cuban state TV as "He Who Must Live" (Campbell, 2016; Carroll, 2010). Important here is that the information originated entirely from a single source in the Cuban government, albeit a well-placed one, and not part of a true investigation that would involve corroboration, fact checking, and overall rigor.
The best way to corroborate such claims is generally through legislative committee investigations/hearings who have full access to US intelligence information and release their findings to the public. One such investigation was done on this specific topic in 1975 by the Senate's famous Church Committee called "Alleged Assassination Plots Involving Foreign Leaders." It determined that the CIA had "participated in" eight plots to assassinate Castro from 1960-1965; however, few of these plots ever progressed to the point of actual action (Church Committee, 1975, pp. 71, 255). Those that did included an attempt using the mafia to poison Castro (where the assassin got cold feet) and two instances of CIA giving support and encouragement to rebels to conduct such an assassination, one of them on Raul and one on Fidel (Church Committee, 1975, p. 255; Kessler, 2007).
The list of 638 is further suspect because, in 1975, Fidel gave to a list to Senator McGovern detailing what he claimed were 24 attempts on his life by the CIA. However, according to Fabian's book, by 1975 there had already been 336 attempts. Why did Castro only give 24 in his list, then? Also of note, when McGovern provided this list to CIA, they responded that in 15 cases the CIA had no contact with the accused individuals, and in the other 9 they did have a relationship but not towards the purpose of assassination. This claim was confirmed by the Church Committee, which found no evidence of CIA involvement in these instances (Church Committee, 1975, p. 71).
The fact of the matter is that the number itself is suspect. Even assuming the number is completely true and valid (which I personally believe to be unlikely) it includes not only assassination "attempts" but also "schemes" and "character assassination" plots. It also attributes many of the plots to Cuban rebels, which Fabian claimed were CIA proxies, but which complicate the matter of truly proving a connection.
In the end, I tend to place far more weight on the Church Committee than on a single Cuban claimant professing so remarkably high a number, especially one that averages out to 1 assassination attempt every 3 weeks over 42 years. It seems unlikely that any organization would be so tenaciously incompetent with such sensitive and complicated operations. By contrast, the Church Committee's effective and revealing investigations are still very well known to historians today and famously brought about huge changes in the CIA and FBI's sometimes questionable actions with regards to citizen rights and the rule of law. The Committee would have done its due diligence in uncovering such schemes (as evidenced in its 351-page report on assassinations alone), and not been part of a cover-up.
I believe so, though attribution is difficult because while the executive orders were being written, the country was simultaneously changing the way it saw its own intelligence community. Legislation often occurs in parallel to public and executive sentiment, and how we viewed assassination attempts may be a case of that. With that said, it always helps to have a formal order.
‌Carroll, R. (2010, March 10). Fidel Castro TV series charts 638 assassination attempts. Retrieved May 4, 2020, from the Guardian website:
Campbell, D. (2016, November 26). Close but no cigar: how America failed to kill Fidel Castro. Retrieved May 4, 2020, from the Guardian website:
‌Escalante, F. (2006). Executive action : 634 ways to kill Fidel Castro. Melbourne New York: Ocean Press.
Kessler, G. (2007, June 27). Trying to Kill Fidel Castro. Retrieved May 4, 2020, from Washinonpost.com website:
I have an additional question. I know some time in Carter's term as president he issued an executive order that forbid the assasination of foreign leaders. Did this have any impact on the CIA's operations that we know of?
The pre-Church/Pike Committee intelligence community was a different beast than it is now. The cultural change that came about following these investigations in 1975 was a true transformation, instituting a great deal more respect for the morality and transparency of performing intelligence work than the black-project days prior (Looking back at the Church Committee - National Constitution Center, 2019).
Gerald Ford's original ban on political assassinations (EO 11905) was signed at the same time the Committee revelations came to light, and Carter's subsequent broadening of the definition of assassinations (EO 12036) further widened the prohibition (Executive Order 11905: United States Foreign Intelligence Activities, 1976; Executive Order 12036. \[1978\]). I believe they are both part of the above transition period of our intelligence apparatus.
Since then, I'm unaware of any serious or credible accusations of the US being involved in assassination plots, though the most controversial may be the US targeting senior terrorists, such as the killing of Osama Bin Laden. Such targets were designated enemy combatants by the US, and thus supposedly fell outside the restrictions of assassination, but others have questioned their legality (Maier, 2019).
Overall, while the CIA has a mixed history, I do not believe the CIA of modern times would conduct such an operation.