Posted this because Peru's starting to make the mainstream news for bad reasons. Can anyone give a more detailed rundown of what's happening? Well, besides:
I really want to know how long this would be going on and what conditions predicated this. I did say before that I wish to eventually go there for a vacation so Peruvian stability is an issue that I should really be keeping a closer eye on.
There's been political instability since 2016's election when the congress denied trust vote to then president Kuczinsky because 70 members of congress were part of the opposing party.
Castillo's party has been linked to terrorist groups and movements, they've been invovled in corruption scandals and congress has been wanting to impeach him, he's had more than 70% disapproval by the time he was impeached. That's not to say congress is full of saints, peruvian congress is usually corrupt as fuck and full of imbeciles and is generally disliked by the population always.
A couple weeks ago a \third\ impeachment vote was scheduled for December 7, under the reasoning of moral incapacity. Congress needed 87 votes to impeach him and pretty much the consesus was that they weren't going to get enough votes. On December 7 before the vote took place, Castillo gave a message to the nation saying that he was temporarily dissolving congress, throughout the day we found out he also called for the top chief of the armed forces to comply with closing congress and called for the arrest of the Fiscal of Nation. All this was unconstitutional, per article 46, so the congress quickly called a vote and impeached him with 103 votes. His vice-president, who he had distanced himself from, Dina Boluarte was sworn after this.
He was quickly arrested as he was reportedly going to Mexico's embassy for political asylum. Numerous groups across the country have started protests to liberate him, reinstate him and call for elections and have taken over some airports, closed highways and have been doing riots/protests. This is believed to be because his slogan was "No more poor in a rich country" and that he was presented as a president for the rural people, which was a change of pace from the usual presidents, which has greatly upset them. Due to all of this, Dina Boluarte has called up elections for 2024 (Which is honestly the earliest it can be done due to the need to set up a campaign, it can't just be done from night to day).
I think that an obvious way to resolve this problem is to expand the control of the electorate over legislation, at least temporarily and with a little bit of expense, until the general election takes place. Referenda for all legislation, and looser requirements for petitions to get legislation to that stage, until the next general election could neuter the impetus for protests and insurgency.
Now my two cents on this, Castillo's government has been a disaster, ministers kept on resigning, he's embarassed us in the international landscape (Look up the CNN interview he gave, his speech in front of the United Nations, his usual speeches) and obviously there's the links to terrorism and corruption (Latter being the usual for every politician here) and the fact that his ideas almost did severe damage to our economy (Tried to nationalize private sectors like mining, which is one of our biggest exports, momentarily led to a lot of controversy until he decided not to), and the political instability that the government alongside congress was bringing. I don't honestly know why Castillo is getting much support from the rural parts of the country, he might have presentend himself as a president for the rural people but he hasn't really done anything in favor of them. He's only been busy with filling his pockets (The usual with every politician here). Those calling for new elections don't realize that it's the same shit always getting into congress (As hopeful as you might believe that the next congress will be better).
Alternatively, activating something equivalent to an emergencies act would also ensure stability, but such solutions are risky in the long term despite Castillo's obvious bullshit. It could preclude the generation of more moderate parties or parties that are less corrupt and more aware of the issues rural people are facing, which will ultimately solve the security issue posed by Castillo. Castillo also attempted to use the military to coup the other side - using the military to restore order will send a perverse message, so the state will have to make do with the national police force.
Transparency and stronger whistleblower protections will be needed if corruption is as bad as you say it is. IMO Castillo's attempts to thwart the constitution does not paint a good image for him as a champion against corruption. The more people that can blow the horn and the less the state can do about it, the harder it is to hide underhanded shit and scam the nation. Of course, it won't help when politicians from both sides of the aisle vote to increase their salaries, but that's impossible to keep secret.