Call the office that issued the subpoena and make sure that it's still necessary. From a legal perspective, this guy failed to appear before court. He's most likely now facing just a serious if not more serious charges that whan he originally faced and the prosecutor is now not really concerned all that much with the original charges because the new charges will be easier to convict him. It's because they all stem from just not showing up to court and that's all the prosecutor has to prove. Having said that though, in order to keep those charges on the docket, the prosecutor likely has to keep the original charges on the docket as well. Would seem silly to dismiss whatever original charges he had and still try to prosecute him on failure to appear right? (Like why do you care so much about failure to appear but you don't care about why he was supposed to appear in the first place.).
This is basically what it turned out to be. I was no longer a necessary witness the case. Found out today after sitting in a court room for one and half hours lol.
Yeah, I'm sorry you got all kinds of shitty advice in this thread like there some mass conspiracy to keep you from testifying. People are idiots. There's a lot of moving parts to court, you just got caught in a relatively automated process that doesn't account for random stuff like the defendant not showing up.
So, you may be stuck in sort of an administrative purgatory where it's now time for him to face the original charges again from which you get subpoenaed on but the new charges is what the prosecution really wants.
If you received a subpoena, you need to be at the courthouse when it says. You are welcome to call the court and clarify, but they wouldn't waste time sending the subpoena if they did not have jurisdiction over you.
You have to show up for a subpoena and can't ignore it. You can be charged with contempt of court and or fined. You wouldn't have been served if they didn't want you in court.
It turns out they didn’t want me in court lol they asked me why I was there and when they realized I was no longer on the witness list they told me to leave.