Día de Muertos and Halloween are in origin the same holiday. Día de Muertos and its associated customs are a Mexican elaboration on the Catholic three-day ecclesiastical season of Allhallowtide: All Hallows Eve, All Saints Day, and All Souls Day. "Halloween" is just a contracted form of "Hallow's Eve". I've written about the origins of Halloween and . The first link talks about the origins of Halloween as a combination of Catholic All Hallows and Gaelic Samhain, while the second link talks about the evolution of Halloween as a festival commemorating the dead in medieval and modern England.
When Mexico was colonized by Spain, they introduced the Catholic three-day feast there just as they did in other places they conquered. Just like Halloween in Ireland and Scotland took on aspects of the pre-Christian festival of Samhain, Día de Muertos draws on pre-colonial customs, beliefs and folklore surrounding the commemoration of the dead. The Aztecs, for example, had different festivals and rituals commemorating the dead. A major one was Xócotl Huetzi, which was a three-day feast held in August in honour of the fire god Xiuhtecuhtli. The rituals focused around a tree that served to represent the axis mundi, or the connection between the heavens, earth and underworld. During this period, Xiuhtecuhtli was believed to descend to the underworld as part of a cycle necessary for fertilizing the earth. Xócotl Huetzi was also known as Huey Miccaíhuitl, "Great feast of the dead", and these names applied to the entire month as well as the initial festival. Songs and offerings were made to deceased elders during this period, and it was also a time of increased human sacrifice. This is not the only festival where offerings were made to the dead, but it gives you an idea of how commemorations of the dead were already a very important part of the ritual year before Christianity showed up.
Día de Muertos is celebrated at the end of October and beginning of November, rather than in August like Xócotl Huetzi, because of the Catholic assimilation process. Mexican celebrations of Allhallowtide combined aspects of Catholic devotion, imported European folk culture, and existing pre-colonial attitudes towards the dead. Halloween in Catholic parts of Europe often incorporated feasting and partying, such as in Ireland where the Irish drew on the feasting which had been part of Samhain, their pre-Christian celebration at that time of year. This element of feasting was often lost in Protestant celebrations of Halloween (as I discussed in my post about England), but carried forward from late medieval/early modern European folk culture into colonial Mexico. The Aztecs and other Mexican peoples had much more elaborate commemorations of the dead than the pre-Christian Irish, though, so their own celebration of Allhallowtide drew inspiration from their existing customs too. For example, the idea of making offerings of food and drink to the deceased in the modern ofrenda is closer in appearance to Aztec offerings to the dead than in European Halloween traditions, which focused more on offering prayers and candles (though see also the discussion of "soul cakes" in my post about English Halloween history).
In conclusion, both Halloween and Día de Muertos are ultimately the daughters of the same holiday, Allhallowtide, but with centuries of independent cultural development as well as differing pre-Christian influences separating them in practice.
The parts of this post dealing with Xócotl Huetzi are from the article "El dios de fuego y la regeneración del mundo" by Silvia Limón Olivera, Estudios de Cultura Nahuatl 32 (2009), pp. 51-68 \\].
But why 31st October, in particular? With something Christmas, it's nominally pegged to the date of Jesus' birth, what's specific about the 31st October?
Scholars are not totally agreed on why 1 November was chosen for All Saints Day. Earlier versions of the festival focused on the commemoration of martyrs and were mostly observed in the spring, as first recorded in the 4th century. This includes Ireland, where the commemoration of the martyrs was originally observed on 20 April. 13 May was the most common date for this feast in the West. It's been suggested that this is because it was designed to coincide with the pre-Christian Roman feast of Lemuria, which involved the spirits of the dead.
In 609, Pope Boniface IV formally endorsed 13 May as the feast for the martyrs. But by the end of the 8th century, churches in England and Germany were celebrating it on 1 November. The reasons for this are obscure. We know very little about the pre-Christian calendar in Germany and England, much less than we do about Ireland. The Irish quarter-days remained important regardless of the Christian conversion, since they were based on agricultural milestones rather than theological ones per se. Bede, who lived in the first half of the 8th century, did not mention All Saints being commemorated on 1 November, or any other pagan festival which might have corresponded to it (as he famously mentioned for Easter). But Alcuin of York, a fellow Northumbrian who served in Charlemagne's court in the late 8th and early 9th centuries, did celebrate it on 1 November, and encouraged this date to spread throughout the Frankish Church. Emperor Louis the Pious and Pope Gregory IV decreed that 1 November was the official date for this feast and that it was a holy day of obligation, which meant that people were required to go to Mass. This was a period of close collaboration between the Carolingian emperors and the Popes in Rome, so that would explain why the German date could hold enough sway in Rome to overrule the earlier May date. Why the English and Germans celebrated All Saints in November instead of May, though, remains a mystery.