Nearly everywhere I'm aware you're supposed to hit the Animal rather than try to avoid it especially if you swerve into another Lane where you could have collided with someone else.
Also, if you look at the Deer as a log in the road from a tree suddenly falling or Débris that schlumped off a truck and was laying in the roadway you need to be aware enough ahead of you vehicle and be travelling at a speed to have enough time to stop safely and maintain control.
I know, I know, practically it's easier said than done if a Deer or Moose(or impala or pet dog) appears suddenky with a leap but that's the way the Law looks at it.
Speak to a defense Lawyer or traffic Lawyer is the best you can do for the best outcome. You may end up with something like loss of control or speed not prudent as is common in one vehicle accidents.
You really want a defense Lawyer here to help you with this misdemeanor. You may be able to work out a deal with their help especially as it was a single car Incident.
Do you think I'll lose my license or go to jail because of this? I looked up operating to endanger and it said both of those could happen and it's a serious charge. I really feel like I don't deserve for this to happen to me idk what I was supposed to do different.
If it gives you any hope this Charge actually gets dismissed and reduced quite frequently in single car accident cases like(I can see the lane change sticking, although).
Haha, no sorry not loss of control/qualifying trigger as in psychological defense element Loss of Control, I meant loss of control of your vehicle. My apologies for not using precise language. For example in many statutes it's called Failure to Control or Operating Without Reasonable Control. It's not getting off with charges dismissed but it's often a way a Lawyer can negotiate an outcome that's a step down from reckless/dangerous/negligent operation.
You still didn't give your location like requested but I'm guessing from the phrasing of the charge as Operating to Endanger this is Mass?