In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
What they showed us is that our current set of loosely held standards held up somewhat but is still in dire need of repair and regulations.
I try to avoid remembering any details regarding the Trump presidency, but it's worth noting here. The reason they were bad for the country wasn't just malice, or hatred, or any of the other shit they did. They were flat-out incompetent by almost every possible measure. They could accidentally explode things that didn't need touched, regularly.
And sadly that same incompetence was also the closest thing they had to a redeeming trait. Because that incompetence kept them from doing so much more horrible shit.
Trumps administration gave us a prelude to all things to come from those wishing to disrupt our country to meet their ends.
We are still staring at some wild new world ahead should our leaders continue to ignore the changes we need to prevent even worse to come.
The thing I keep coming back to is the lack of security on things like this--tweeting out a photograph of the location and faces of Navy Seals. Things like that.
Ultimately, he had the right to do it. He was the president at the time. But being legally able to do something and that thing being a good idea are pretty far removed from each other, and he should have known that.
Generally, I'd assume that's the cause. But the time frame for that is important to mention; most of the worst stuff from his term appears to have been after the fact.
A couple of Natsec lawyers I follow said there wasn't anything actionable there, so I'm deferring to their opinion on that. That being said, it's dumb even if it's not strictly illegal.
It's one of the most bewildering things about American politics. You don't go to a chiropractor for stomach pains because he "hasn't been corrupted by big medicine" or whatever--you go to someone who's studied that. Why would you want a person who's never been anywhere near a position of civic authority?
That, absolutely--you'd have to have an executive order for it, or otherwise indicate it through some kind of process. There'd have to be a process and a record of the process.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Yeah, that's true. I do think it's more prevalent in politics than other places, but the overall thread of anti-intellectualism does exist in a lot of American culture.
The nuclear codes' classification comes from a separate entity--Congress encoded a lot of that stuff, so he doesn't strictly speaking have the authority. Taking a somewhat different example, though, if he wanted to declassify the names of all spies in Russia, I'm pretty sure he could legally do that, and there wouldn't be much to be done about it. Classification authority is almost entirely within the power of the president and there isn't much legal recourse.
That being said, the president's ability to declassify important information, and classify unimportant information, with absolutely no checks is more than a little unsettling because he could have done crazy shit like that. He could have classified information about Stormy Daniels, for instance. And all that predates unitary executive theory; it's just something they could have broken using existing tools.
I suppose I should rephrase that initial statement: I'd prefer to forget he ever existed, even if it's not feasible right now. If he completely stepped away from politics and his influence dissipated, I would happily forget he existed even a day of my life. But the people who supported him still support him, and he's still shaping American politics, so we don't have that option.