The stimulus despite the name are tax credits, not money owed to him. Filing the appropriate tax returns where he is not a dependent would get him any of the credits not received.
He didn’t file his own taxes the last tax season, his parents did it for him. I’m assuming it’s too late to do anything about last year now right? What should be his next step?
You can be a dependent until 19 or a full time student under 24. They must provide more than half their housing and financial support.
He could refile his own taxes on paper to dispute, but he needs to start taking control of his own finances/taxes and separate himself from his parents. If he is truly independent. He should also just ask his parents what they did. And file quickly next year. And does he have any accounts with his parents? He needs to open his ow accounts in another bank.
If this wasn't the case bf can file an amended return. IRS will talk to both parties and have both prove their case why he is or isn't a dependent.
If he lives at home, they assist with bills and/or a student he's still a dependent even if he's not a minor. A dependent can still file their own taxes.
He's not getting any of the stimulus checks. So I'm not sure what you're asking. He also didn't register just for the covid unemployment insurance after the normal unemployment was declined so they aren't going to back pay that either.
He was claimed as a dependent for the tax year they based the first 2 stimulus checks so wasn't eligible. The 3rd one he was eligible for BUT if he's still a dependent the person who claimed him as a dependent would have gotten it if the person who claimed the dependent also qualified for the stimulus based on their latest (before stimulus was signed) tax return.
As for the covid unemployment insurance they aren't going to back pay him for times when he wasn't properly signed up for it. If he was declined normal unemployment he would have had to go back and register for just the covid insurance which from what you wrote he didn't do after the initial judgement.
He did register for the pandemic insurance but he did not re-register after being denied the NYS unemployment, as no one told him it was necessary.
He will have to navigate the IRS website to find that out. If he and his parents waited to files taxes until after the 3rd stimulus was decided they would have based eligibility off the last filed taxes they had which he would have been a dependent and the money if he was eligible would have gone to his parents.