Your homeowners might have coverage IF it falls under a covered loss. Just aging and degrading isn't likely a covered loss as in general, losses have to be "sudden and accidental" in nature to be covered.
If the line crosses HOA property, it would be reasonable to argue that this would qualify as an exterior issue since it's on HOA property. In this scenario, you will also want to see if there is an easement for the line as that could impact your argument as well as the logistics of having it repaired. If no easement exists, then there would be a strong argument that the HOA is responsible for maintenance and repair since the line is located in the common area. If there is an easement, then it's more likely that it's your responsibility.
Do you own the land between the meter and the breaker box? Or does the line cross over HOA or someone else's property? If the line is entirely on your land, then it's likely that you would be responsible for it. You'd have to read through your home insurance policy to determine if repair/replacement would be covered.
That could get iffy depending on how the properties are titled/owned. For example I own a fee-simple townhouse where the utilities are on one end and pass through the intermediate (also fee-simple) homes/parcels between the meter base at one end and the electrical panel within each unit.
There is no HOA-owned property anywhere between the utility entrance/meter base, and the electrical panel in my (or any of the adjoining) homes. (the HOA does own a small parking lot but that's it)... if OP's scenario is like mine absent something interesting in the CC&Rs I wouldn't expect it to be the HOA's responsibility -- or the HOA may do it as a special assessment for that property individually.
On the other hand if it's a condoized townhome where there are common elements/limited common elements and the COA/HOA generally has larger property holdings it could skew differently.
But given the 10k+ price tag, it's probably worth spending a little money on consulting with an attorney familiar with VA condo law to review the CC&Rs and make sure they comply with the VA Condominium Act. It's a stretch, but possibly worth wasting a little time and money on if it's a newer condo.
This is an intriguing situation. I don't have actual legal advice for you but perhaps my input may help.