The Personal History of David Copperfield (2020) and Emma (2020). Austen and Dickens have been adapted in the "heritage film" tradition many times (Austen adaptations in particular tending to play up the romance), and it's really nice to see them treated with a bit more levity. These are great movies on their own, and I hope they presage more interesting 19th-century-set films and miniseries in the future.
The Scapegoat (2012), an adaptation of Daphne du Maurier's novel. Matthew Rhys plays a mild-mannered, lonely Latin teacher who meets a posho, also played by Matthew Rhys. The posho forces him to switch places and he gets taken off to a country estate, where he finds out just what an unpleasant person his doppelganger is. Set in the 1950s.
brings up a lot of memories. I was a couple blocks away on 9/11 and I saw the paper fluttering down before I saw the towers on fire, because my bedroom faced the other way. It reminded me of the ending of Die Hard, a frivolous thought which I will never forget.
North and South (2004), another miniseries but at 4 hours you could justify watching it all in one sitting, if you have a slow afternoon! If you have ever thought that costume dramas were just about wealthy people and ignored the plight of the urban working classes, this is the show for you. While the central drama is the relationship between Margaret and Mr. Thornton, it's happening in a mill town and the goings-on in and around the factories are key.
The Vanity Fair miniseries (1998) with Natasha Little, the story of an adventurous antiheroine in Regency and post-Regency England, in parallel with her much more conventionally "good" friend. The more recent adaptation is also good, but this one really has my heart.
Desperate Romantics (2009), also a miniseries. This is an extremely fictionalized version of the story of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood, a circle of Victorian aesthetes and artists, which unfortunately cuts out a large number of people, including women. But it is funny and bawdy and contains many excellent performances: Aidan Turner as the charming and faithless Dante Gabriel Rossetti, Rafe Spall as the intense and ridiculous William Holman Hunt, Samuel Barnett as the immature and sweet John Millais, Tom Hollander as the dour and deeply messed-up John Ruskin, Amy Manson as the depressed and intense muse and artist Elizabeth Siddal, and Zoe Tapper as the stalwart and strong Effie Ruskin.