This would not rise to a level of corruption on behalf of the county. Unfortunately, this is just a messy civil suit between the estate/uncle and yourself.
Your best advice would be to seek another lawyer and see if there are further legal steps you can take. Sorry that you are having to go through this.
Yes. You would need to continue court proceedings to attempt to have the judge sign the order. There could be many reasons why the warrant is not being signed. This does not indicate corruption.
Even if the judge seems to be involved to the point that she will not sign the warrant to enforce her own order? And the administrator appointed by the county is clearly biased and complicit at the least. And there's heavy implications that he's an informant and seems like so many official people are protecting him. I just don't know what else to do and I feel like I'm fighting a battle that's rigged.
“Heavy implications” needs to be backed by facts, witness statements, and evidence. If you can obtain such, a lawyer may be able to evaluate your case further. But as of right now, corruption does not seem viable.
Estate cases can be extremely messy as you are seeing. And there are no guarantees on recuperating losses that are caused by untruthful/greedy heirs.
Does it seem viable to sue the administrator for his negligence and allowing my uncle to remove assets and do nothing? Even seemingly faking filing a police report?
As well as not taking accounting of the contents and items in the home at any point and allowing uncle to break in multiple times and still not be bothered to call the police.
The police report will probably not be considered. Even if the administrator did or did not file a report, the police aren’t required to make an arrest. Plus you admit the uncle’s name was still on the deed for whatever reason.
That is an option. But I would assume your prior lawyers would have considered that. There may (or may not) be reasons why the accounting has been delayed.
What does the will say about how the house is supposed to be handled--is it supposed to be sold, or is title to be shared by the beneficiaries? Title is NOT supposed to be in the name of the estate. You need to concentrate on finding an attorney who can get the deed/title officially and legally changed to show the names of whoever owns it now, whether he has to cooperate with the administrator to get this done or not.
If it is going to be owned by 2 or more beneficiaries, then one or more of the beneficiaries can force a sale if they choose to do so.
Where was the money located (part of the millions you say were reserved for maintenance of the property)--was that in a bank account that had his name on it as a beneficiary or was it in a trust account? Look at the trust document to see if it mentions anything about requiring that a trustee's bond or surety bond be required to be purchased to protect the financial interest of the beneficiaries from theft, or does the language say that bond is exempt or not required? Something seems to be wrong if you were not awarded damages from your 2016 case against him for fraud and mismanagement.
Are you one of the beneficiaries in the trust? Does the trust have anything to say about the house? Have you received any payments from the trust? What does the trust say that you are supposed to get?