In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Need to create more legal avenues for the labor that is being done by migrants anyway, then eliminate the blanket right to apply for asylum and have Congress individually approve all groups (geographic, ethnic, etc.) to whom asylum will be offered. Then the preapproved groups can be transported in an organized way rather than patronising human smugglers.
We are not prepared for the level of immigrants who will be seeking asylum. And the White House knows what conservative media will be headlining, “the invasion caused by Biden”. It’s really a no-win situation. Of course America refused asylum for some Jewish immigrants during the 30s and we know how that turned out.
The White House knows they have the authority to overturn Trump’s executive order, but is deferring to the supreme court, so they don’t have to make that hard call. Of course, there is no good scenario for what will happen when the order is lifted. Due to Trump’s executive order, there is an immigration backlog combined with a massive increase from unstable countries.
At some point, Democrats and Republicans are going to have to come together and pass immigration reform. But I don’t have a lot of hope for that.
I’m not really for or against, but if we want to admit people for seeking asylum then we need to do that for Cubans too. Unfortunately Biden admin just wants to grant citizenship to those at the us/Mexico border and, for Cubans they get, “Allow me to be clear: If you take to the sea, you will not come to the United States,”. It’s a double standard that I really don’t understand the basis of. Aside from the fact that most Cubans come in and vote republican and most from the us/Mexico border come in and vote Democrat. That can’t be the real reason though, maybe I’m missing something.