I am spanish but at the same time i do really like naval history and learnt from myself and from different sources (and i lived in several countries, UK included).
Spain still suffers -a lot- from the "Black Legend" to the point that most people believe it. That, together with the fact that nowadays education systems are becoming more and more relaxed, makes the knowledge of history much more partial.
In nowadays students history textbooks, the data is quite correct about the intentions of the expedition and that was unsuccessful. The main reasons of failure stated were bad weather, tides and the death of famous Admiral Alvaro de Bazan, who would have led the navy had he not died.
But the damage is done and if you question regular people about it, the feeling is about tremendous failure and use the name given by our -in that time- were our enemies. Something similiar happens in Japan if you question about the Yamato battleship in WW2.
At the same time, there is a new wave of rediscovery of spanish history. Sadly, because of the rise of the far-right in Spain, anything related with militarism is viewed with skepticism and it is difficult to find views that are not distorted or arbitrary.
In this there is a conference about the approach of the Gran Armada in 2020, thanks to Fundacion Juan March (by Magdalena de Pazzis Pi Corrales, Professor of Modern History at the Complutense University of Madrid). I am sorry that is only in Spanish, but the quality of that conference is just impressive.
The new -reformed- is absolutely gorgeous (Paseo del Prado, 3. 28014,Madrid). Is an example of modern vision of history in a neutral bias and that really makes me feel proud and excited about the historical knowledge of events such as the Great Armada.
I do not believe that Spain will be able to erase the black legend without incurring in the opossite: the pink legend (biases defense of Spanish culture and approval of imperial policy, as well as praise of Hispanic character). But it is taking steps in the right direction.
Canales, C. y Del Rey, M., Las reglas del viento: cara y cruz de la Armada Española en el siglo XVI, Edaf: Madrid, 2020.
I don't think you can obtain access to those books in english, but if you want to read about the Spanish approach they are pure GOLD:
Gorrochategui Santos, L., Contra Armada: la mayor catástrofe naval de la historia de Inglaterra, Ministerio de Defensa, Subdirección General de Publicaciones: Madrid, 2011.
Parker, G. y Martin, C., La Gran Armada: la mayor flota jamás vista desde la creación del mundo, Círculo de Lectores: Barcelona, 2011.
One of the books is about the following english naval counterattack, the English Armada or Counter Armada. Nowadays, more and more people know about it and refered as "the english naval disaster".
Thanks you for the response firstly. I have to add that I'm super grateful for the sources as I'm a lover of Spanish and history so those sources will help me scratch both those itches at once!
How does the issue of the Armada relate to the Black Legend? My understanding of the Black Legend (which could well be mistaken) is that is centered around a rumour or lie designed to paint Spain and it's colonial empire in the Americas as uniquely bad. So I'm interested to learn more about how that interacts with an event that occured in a purely European setting. Hopefully some of the sources you kindly listed will delve into that.
My second main point I was wondering about was what you said regarding rising right wing attitudes. Does that mean that you have people like VOX or those less to the far right trying to reshape Spanish history and how certain events are remembered and portrayed?
Os far i understand, the spanish black legend is an anti-Spanish propaganda movement promoted by English, Dutch and other writers during the 16th century, which aimed to damage the prestige and influence of the Spanish Empire in its Golden Age. Indeed the prints by Theodor de Bry made a huge impact on the picture of the Conquest of America but definitely Spanish Armada is part of the Black Legend.
Is quite discouraging because spanish history has so many historical facts of modernity such as the consideration of the American territories as Spanish soil (not colonies), their status as Spanish subjects or the creation of the first universities in America (The Royal and Pontifical University of Mexico 1551). Politicians should read more history, but I guess those who do not know their history are condemned to repeat it.
About your second point related to history: the current political situation in Spain is becoming radicalized due to the lack of independent media and a quality political class. Most of the visible faces are opportunists who say what their electorate wants to hear and play with their guts (since it is much easier than building a sensible, Europeanist and modern political project). Any political party that promotes balance is seen as a weakness and with no chance of governing. So, right wing parties like VOX use the feeling of the Spanish Golden Age to to spur their followers with a militaristic, patriotic, archaic and stultified feeling (the same biased use that is being made by the Catalan independence movement).
I'm not aware any prints and stuff like that relating to the Spanish Armada but as you said if it's part of a wider propoganda effort at the time due the concern surrounding Spain's huge empire than that makes sense.
I think Spanish history and the relation between the metropole and the colonies is an interesting and one and is certainly more nuanced than people realise. For example I never knew they were regarded as equal parts as you say, rather the image passed down to me was that they were merely brutally exploited colonies. Not that they can't be both but the portrayal is interesting. I think it's interesting what you said about parties tapping into Spain's militaristic past and attempting to harness that to push a message of a return to the glory days. Is that related to the Franco era or when you say that are you referring to people going way back, to the 16th and 17th centuries or before?
LA LEYENDA NEGRA EN INGLATERRA Desarrollo del sentimiento antihispánico 1558-1660 by William Maltby. I hope you can find it in english. The book is filled with remarkable references most of then in english.
Another great example is the book "LA LEYENDA NEGRA ESTUDIOS ACERCA DEL CONCEPTO DE ESPAÑA EN EL EXTRANJERO" Julián Juderías .
I can't go into detail, but Spanish conqueros mixed with the Mexica and Inca and gave surnames to their children. Indeed there was racism and exploitation, just read about the life of Inca Garcilaso de la Vega. But it was not a genocide (King Leopold II in XIX century).