I will go more in depth about your actual question, but first I'd like to write a bit about why your question is a bit fundamentally flawed.
If I can paraphrase, your question boils down to "in the 1400s and 1500s the Ottomans were extremely powerful, and their military defeated most enemies that it confronted. By the 1600s wars were a more even contest, and at some point in the 1700s, the Ottoman military became a "laughing stock".
But it's a theory that has completely fallen out of favor among historians of the Ottoman Empire. The decline thesis only even superficially works if you look at an incredibly broad spectrum of history, and lump 300+ years of history into one narrative. When you examine specific beats within Ottoman history, like all history you are confronted by a much messier picture. For example, from roughly 1590-1610, a period usually still marked as being part of the Ottoman "golden age", the Ottoman military was fairly crippled by large scale revolts throughout Anatolia by non-Janissary soldiers known as sekban. In 1710-11, firmly in the "decline" (or in your words "laughing stock") period of this narrative, the Ottoman military decisively defeated the Russians during the Pruth River Campaign, and were in a position to completely destroy the Russian army and personally capture Peter the Great.
Your question essentially is predicated on the "stagnation and decline" narrative of Ottoman historiography. This theory posits that the Empire was powerful right up until its defeat at the First Siege of Vienna, and from there the Ottoman Empire entered into a long, drawn out period of stagnation and inevitable decline as the Empire fell behind Europe technologically. This was the conventional narrative of Ottoman history that dominated in the West, and remains influential in popular perceptions of the Ottoman Empire in the english speaking world today.
There are other factors to consider - sheer logistics is one (it's much easier for the Austrians to fight a war in nearby Hungary than it was for the Ottomans to fight a war on its distant frontier, through hundreds of miles of roads running through rugged Balkan mountains), but these three factors I think sum up a very broad question.
As for sources - one of the best scholars to read about the Ottoman military during the Empire's height is Gabor Agostan, who I had the pleasure to take a class with during undergrad. His Guns for the Sultan: Military Power and the Weapons Industry in the Ottoman Empire is overall about the Ottomans' military industry, but also contains a lot about just how the Ottomans organized their military and fought wars at this time. And he's written a number of articles about the Ottoman military and the overall Ottoman-Hapsburg conflict. In researching this question, I also learned that he actually has just released a new work that is a grand survey of the Ottoman conquests up to 1683, called The Last Muslim Conquest: The Ottoman Empire and Its Wars in Europe (I have not had a chance to read this yet, but if it's anything like his other works it will be an excellent resource).
For a general survey of Ottoman military history (and really, most Ottoman military questions), you can look at Mesyut Uyar and Edward Erickson's A Military History of the Ottomans: From Osman to Atatürk, of which there is apparently a free PDF avaliable (link not working because of reddit formatting -.
A very popular Turkish historian nowadays, Emrah Safa Gurkan, discussed these topics in a youtube video. Some things to keep in mind:
But, on to your question. It is broadly correct to say that the 1600s saw the Ottomans no longer conducting sweeping, breathtaking conquests of Europe, the 1700s saw the Ottomans lose more wars than it won, and by roughly 1800, the Ottoman military was in a state of collapse. Why? It's difficult to generalize over such a long period of time (200+ years!), but we can identify a few key trends.
1. European states caught up to the Ottomans - When the Ottoman Empire fought its incredible wars of conquest in the 1400s and 1500s, in many ways it was the most advanced military force in Europe (or perhaps the world!). The Janissary corps that other users in this thread have discussed more served as both a standing, professional army and a professional bureaucracy. While most European states were highly decentralized realms where Kings had to negotiate with squabbling dukes and lower aristocracy for support (both military and financial), the Ottoman Sultan could personally command the loyalty of a powerful and organized state. This simply gave the Ottoman military far more resources than anybody else, both in terms of soldiers and in money and resources to pay for those soldiers, pay for supplies, organize baggage trains, etc. But this status quo was not to last - European states began to centralize and professionalize, and soon the Ottomans' Hapsburg arch-rivals could command more and more financial resources with which to support more and more military resources. By the 1600s, Ottoman armies were now competing with Austrian armies on a relatively equal footing, whereas previously Ottoman forces had a significant material advantage over the Hungarians, Serbs, Hapsburgs, Byzantines, etc.
1- Categorising the Ottoman history as ''rise, stagnation, falling'' based on conquests actually shows us how little we know about Ottoman history.
A caveat - Erickson has peddled in Armenian Genocide denial. That doesn't invalidate all the work he's done on Ottoman military history, but that context must be kept in mind, particularly when reading anything of his involving Armenians or the Ottoman war effort in WW1.
So saying falling started after 1683 failed siege of Vienna actually means Ottoman history is not well studied so we look at the most superficial parameter of the success of conquests.
So Ottomans were actually even in their golden age, even in their rising period; were actually fighting against the time.
3- You can think of Ottoman Empire as Soviet Russia in Cold War. Political and military power arent equal to good economy. Ottomans were always a political/military superpower never an economical power. Ottomans never had the numbers European kingdoms had. Europe made its revolutions both in civil life and in technology gradually as its urbanisation continued. Ottoman cities never reached to that urbanisation. There was simply no population, no fertility, no capital but that becomes overshadowed due to political/military power.
And when you dont have economy, urbanisation the other side has, even your political/military power roots from within.
As you may already know, in ancient world and the period starting with the renaissance(pike and shot period) infantry dominated the warfare.
Anyway, with the fall and collapse of Roman Empire, Europe actually lost a tremendous amount of urbanisation and economical power. In that period disciplined infantry formations of the ancient world left their places for armies with limited elite cavalry and an army of peasants following. Limited elite cavalry were the nobles who could afford horses and the peasants following were dominated by them. This was the feudal period.
2. European warfare became indecisive - Put simply, the 1600s and 1700s were a period of history where warfare became indecisive, wars of siege rather than decisive battle and sweeping conquest. European states could mobilize far larger armies than ever before, and defensive fortification technology advanced rapidly. Put together, these things meant that field battles were relatively rare, while sieges became frequent and drawn out. The Ottoman-Hapsburg wars were no exception - the Ottoman-Hapsburg borderlands were some of the most highly fortified places on earth, and wars between the two were affairs more of raid and counter-raid, siege and counter-siege, rather than decisive battles that wiped out the nobility of an entire country like Mohacs. This continued into the 1700s - prior to the conclusion of the Russo-Turkish War in 1774, territorial exchanges in both Ottoman defeats and victories were minor.
But over the course of medieval era, it is actually Europe coming back to the point of Rome in economy and urbanisation sufficiency. You see the rise of disciplined infantry again. It means economy is again enough to suffice disciplined infantry armies.
If you are nomads you are good at horse archery. If you are fishermen you are good at naval warfare etc. Raising soldiers from military schools is a concept that started in 19th century. Before that this was the way things happened.
Many people dont seem to understand this. Imagine France is smaller than even modern Turkey let alone Ottoman Empire of 1744. There has been three population centers in the Old World: India, China and Europe. So what we call ''great divergence'', the moment Europeans opened the gap and joined a completely another league from rest of the World, could have happened in China or India as well according to many historians but noone stands on the possibility of Ottomans making that. Because when you look at the accounts, the numbers, you dont see the urbanisation, fundamentals in the cities of Middle East and Anatolia. There are economically isolated cities, parasitic cities being fed by the Anatolian/Balkan villages.
But like I said they were household troops meant to protect the sultan from any Turkish noble rivalry. Their job was to be the policework of Istanbul in peace times and to defend the sultan in war times. Ottoman Empire couldnt create its pike and shot armies like in Europe. It wasnt as rich. It wasnt sufficient economical and urbanisation wise. Ottomans by structure couldnt make ''civilian soldier''. So they tried to close that gap with janissaries but at the end they couldnt afford them neither.
Though it is true that they had this stubbornness of not opening embassies in Europe. The first one is literally in 1793.