In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
And as argued in some of the legal cases discussed in the article, it also makes zero sense to take public funds and give to religious groups to use for proselytizing.
It makes sense to bar a school that isn't up to par, but to bar it based on ideological terms doesn't seem right. Either it is a school or it isn't.
Long ago I went to a Christian high school for a year (I'm now old). It was a military-style school, and very expensive. As plebes, we were punished when we didn't yell loudly enough. The only exception was when we were dealing with another plebe, we were not required to yell at them. Any other person, a student who was no longer a plebe, or school employees, we were required to yell, wall-shaking and ear-ringing loud until they told us not to yell.
As an adult, I've learned that yelling loudly can be illegal. Bosses will even become physically-violent wage thieves when you yell at them as we were taught to do at that school. For years I've tried to understand this, and have decided there is no understanding of it other than abject cruelty.
They taught us tactics of dealing with superiors that insured our failure as adults. That was a great education. /s.
The problem with this depends on how you see it. If people see it as giving vouchers to the parents as a way to empower families with the choice of which schools to go to, then obviously you would agree that it'd be ridiculous to bar religious schools. If you see it as the vouchers going to the schools and not to the parents and the parents have to pick from an approved school then I can see why you would be disappointed that the government is giving funds to a religious school.
I value personal choice so I prefer to think of these programs similar to how we think of, say, SNAP benefits. It is a subsidy given to families with a purpose and the family has the freedom to choose where to obtain the subsidized product or service.
Read the article or just look up school voucher programs. This IS about tax dollars going to private education. People voted to allow vouchers for schools to be given to parents for private schools. And you are trying to exclude certain schools based on ideological terms and not based on performance or any metric that would make sense. It isn't YOUR tax dollars. It is your community's. That is why everyone has things that they wish their taxes didn't go to. Wars, corporate subsidies, ICE, ect..