Can you explain, if there was a strong feeling of loss and bitterness at the abolition of the Caliphate in many quarters, what stopped one of the other Muslim monarchies like in Saudi Arabia from simply reinstating it under them in the century afterward?
He was at loss at the decisions made by the Grand Assembly, he pointed out that as the Sultan had already recognized the Assembly and the government in Ankara, Mustafa Kemal could just become the grand vizier and made his word count in the Grand Assembly. The author claimed (or deduced) that the reason Atatürk abolished the Sultanate was pure arrogance and ambition: "Notwithstanding our respect for him, we believe that he yearns after the presidency of a republic, as we can infer from his glorious personal history crowned with a love of pomp." On the impact of the abolition of the Caliphate, Yusuf al-Khatib stated that stripping the Caliph of its authority was not a good move for Turks or Muslims in general. For this he cited the story of the Abbasid Caliphs, who had been stripped of political authority and reduced as puppets at the hands of the Sultan, and argued that the Ottoman Sultanate owed its existence to the Ottoman Caliphs’ exercise of both spiritual and temporal/political power. He further added that "Separating these two powers now will therefore inflict harm on the Turkish State" and that "One of the most important causes of their (the Kemalists) victories and moral strenh, had stemmed from the Muslims’ desire to see full authority restored to the Caliph." Additionally, he further observed that the abolition would also prove detrimental for the nations of the East who had regarded Turkey as "A mature brother and a powerful and resilient leader". Further articles in Al-Karmil also further revealed it authors' thoughts on the abolition. Yusuf al-Khatib on his another article "The Caliphate and the Islamic World" had also attributed the abolition to the influence of Communism. he stated the reason why the peoples of the East had taken a close interest in Turkey’s victories was that the reestablishment of the Caliphate would form a "‘powerful barrier that would prevent Communism from afflicting the East – disinclined as it was to accept that ideology and adapt it according to its own mentalities and traditions." To add to this, Najib Nasser, the editor of the newspaper later published an article "The Abolition of the Caliphate and its Reasons". In it, he addressed the abolitions of the Greek Patriarchate and the Jewish Rabbinate in Turkey:
Filastin, another popular and well-regarded Arabic newspaper also stated their opinion on the matter. Filastin take an anti-Semitic turn and squarely blamed the abolition of the Caliphate thanks to the influence of Russian Jews and the Dönme, descendants of the converted followers of Sabbatai Zvi in Turkey. In an article titled "The Abolition of the Caliphate in Turkey: In Every Valley there are the Tracks of a She-Fox" the editor Isa al-Isa claimed on the basis of Protocols of the Elders of Zion that the ‘conspicuous factor’ in all the revolutions from the French Revolution to the Ottoman Revolution of 1908, and even to the revolutions in Germany had been the socialist ideology, whose originators were none other than the Jews. He argued that the Socialist Jews, by destroying the monarchy and the aristocracy and separating religion from politics could deliver the reins of all the world’s governments to Jewish capitalists. He asserted that "the abolition of the Islamic Caliphate and the deposition of Abdulmecid today, as well as the sentencing of the Caliph and his family to departure from Istanbul, are all the doings of the Jews and of that sect known as the Dönme." On the effects of the abolitions, Isa al-Isa stated:
I'll try to answer you question, sorry if it doesn't satisfy you. However, i think the question is too broad so i'll divide it into countries/regions and focus mostly on Muslim intellectuals and journalists on Palestine, India, Egypt, and Dutch East Indies. There are also responses from places like Albania, Morocco, and Bosnia but i'm going to focus on those four.
The South Asian reaction was probably the strongest. Learning of the decision to abolish the caliphate, the Indian Muslims’ reaction to these unexpected developments was initially a mixture of hesitation, disbelief, and denial. Many thought that the news reaching them was fabricated, distorted, or transmitted by the British in order to a cause disunity between Muslims. When it turned out to be true, some received it lukewarmly, while some considered it to be the greatest betrayal of the Muslim world, the latter mostly expressed by members of the Khilafat movement, a Pan-Islamic movement sought to unify Muslims and preserve the Caliphate. In November 1923 the Central Khilafat Committee wanted to send a delegation to Turkey to express Indian Muslims’ support and explain their views on the Caliphate issue. However, this failed to materialize because the British authorities refused to give passports to the delegation. The Khilafat Conference on 19 March 1924 resulted in an unanimous denouncement of the abolition. They had done everything that a subject nation could do for the Turks and put enormous pressure upon the British-Indian Government. Besides that their heartfelt sympathy for and attachment to the cause of the Caliphate were beyond question. Amir Ali, one of the representatives of the Indian Muslim Community told The Times of India that Mustafa Kemal's decision was a “disaster for the Islamic civilization”:
Later, he and Aga Khan wrote a letter to Turkish Prime Minister İsmet Pasha, urging the Turkish Government to restore the caliphate "on a basis, which would command the confidence and esteem of Muslim nations, and thus impart to the Turkish state unique strenh and dignity". However, they were seen as suspicious and their activities as a conspiracy against the Turkish State. Some 'more accepting' Indian Muslims and Khilafat members tries to reason with the Turkish government's actions. In the Conference of Gaya, Dr. Ansari reasoned that the ex-Sultan Vahiduddin had been acting selfishly which lead him into forcing his ministers into signing the Treaty of Sevres. Had he been allowed to continue he would have guaranteed the doom of his country and religion if the nationalists had not intervened and established themselves in Ankara. He continued saying that the ex-Sultan had done all of this out of self-interest and at the instigation of the Allies, for he had been too weak to oppose them. Some other Indian Muslims suggested that Mustafa Kemal take the title of Caliphate for the sake of Muslim unity. For example Maulana Muhammad Ali, asked Indian Muslims to accept Turkey’s decision:
Rasih Bey, representative of the Turkish Red Crescent in India was tasked to brought this offer to Ankara, however Mustafa Kemal found it repulsive and rejected it nervously.
The reception of Muslims in the Dutch East Indies was more sympathizing compared to others. At this time, the Islamic community was generally divided between organizations, namely Sarekat Islam (Islamic Union) which themselves were divided between “white” (traditional) SI and “red” (Communist) SI, the Muhammadiyah, Al-Irshad, and conservative Muslims which were unorganized but represented by ulema from various cities. The abolition of the Caliphate coincided with the All-Islam Congress organized by the organizations. In the First Congress, they congratulated Mustafa Kemal for his victories by the instigation of Haji Agus Salim. The cordial position was maintained by members of the ‘white’ SI even after the abolitions of the Caliphate, as the politicized Muslims of the SI had stronger sympathies for Turkish Nationalists who managed to fight for the independence of their country than the Sultan who collaborated with the British. Agus Salim in the Second Congress further add to his decision to stand with the Nationalists, arguing that the existence of an independent government and popular assembly in Ankara was a much more important fact than the abolishment of the powerless Caliphate:
The ‘red’ SI, unsurprisingly, cared even less for the deposed Ottoman caliph. In an article published in the 15 April 1924 issue of their journal Medan Moeslimin told its readers not to get involved in what was, after all, a matter that concerned only Turkey itself. The caliphate, with its Pan-Islamism, has only caused the Muslims great losses. In spite of the Caliph’s collaboration with German capital, his jihad had been a dismal failure. It is an illusion to expect the caliphate to bring the Muslims unity, happiness and freedom, onlv communism will do that.
Now, the Indonesian press was mixed on its opinions on the matter. Some, like Bintang Hindia praised his effort to emulate the West and to endorse ‘nationalism’ to politically advance his country without letting this sentiment outgrow its benefits. The newspaper Darmokondo turned to Orientalist narratives to justify Kemal’s abolition of the Caliphate. It stated:
In Egypt, the feelings were mixed. Some criticized and condemned the move, while some supported it. In Egypt, only four days after the abolition of the caliphate, sixteen Azhari scholars published a statement declaring the Turkish move null and void, and asserting that the existence of a caliph is a vital requirement for the Muslim community world-wide. Egyptian poet Ahmad Muharram in one of his poem displays ambivalence towards Mustafa Kemal, but still considered him as betraying the Egyptian Muslims:
Demystifying the Caliphate, Historical Memory and Contemporary Contexts edited by Madawi al-Rasheed, Carool Kersten, Marat Shterin.
Palestinian Arabic press generally denounced the abolition. The newspaper Al-Karmil contained an article titled "A Dangerous Step in Ankara". In it, the author Yusuf al-Khatib attributed the Kemalist abolition as an act of hubris. He stated: