I don't want to comment too much on Indo-European migrations seeing as that's really not my field but i think its much much more likely that when Tacitus said this what he was thinking about was things like Greek and Phoenician colonisation. Firstly we know that the Roman world was familiar with the fact that the Greeks and Phoenicians had established these colonies via sea around the Mediterranean and black sea worlds and the memory of connections between their homelands and Greece had been retained and written about over time.
I suppose what I'm getting at is that Tacitus says "We migrate by land in our time, but the ancients did not.".
There's also the fact that Tacitus is not referring to the PIE disruption in the text itself. The centre of his argument after all is that he doesn't think that the Germans couldn't have come from anywhere else because no one could migrate via the North Sea and the like and who would want to migrate to Germany anyway? So this along with other information would suggest Tacitus didn't know about any Indo-European migrations that occurred even for him in the distant past.
But his core statement that migration can only occur by land isn't really correct. We've got some solid counter examples from both earlier and later of land based migration movements. For example the Celtic entry into the Balkans an invasion. And according to Caesar during his Gallic wars he encountered the Helvetii, Usipetes and Tencteri trying to migrate by land.
Its more of a matter that Tacitus was specifically familiar with the kinds of recorded histories that managed to make it to him that mainly originate from the Mediterranean world and Greco-Roman history he would have been particularly well read in. So its not that people necessarily stopped migrating by land in general, but while i'm not certain what constituted ancient from his perspective but Archaic Greece is probably what he thinks of first. And the Greeks of that periods along with the other better recorded migrations he'd be familiar with did so by sea. But that's not to say there wasn't land migrations going on at that time, but the recorded history that Tacitus was familiar with didn't stretch back as far for other groups. For example he probably wasn't familiar with the Urnfield culture and any migration that might have been involved its spread into places like Iberia for example or if perhaps if the Hallstatt culture's spread involved any mass migrations.