We didn't know he had a heart condition when we signed the contract. I was 4 or 5 months pregnant when we signed it and it's their standard childcare contract. However, here's what I've found online:
They actually don't have insurance at all. They had us sign a form that they don't have it as that's required by law to inform parents about. Not sure if that changes anything.
I don't even know where I would find a medical day care here, let alone one that takes infants. The reason we are pursuing scaring them with a legal issue is that it seems impossible to find a daycare with openings this suddenly.
statement from the parent or guardian expressing their intent for the school to administer the medication. Cal. Ed. Code §49423(b). These notes should.
We've left him with babysitters and doulas and he's been fine. It's a condition that he may even grow out of, about 50% of kids do by age 1. He's on a beta-blocker, if that makes it less scary sounding for everyone?
You do realize that a beta blocker can cause hypotension, bradycardia and death if it is given when vital signs are too low, don’t you? And you do know that early indicators of drug toxicity are even harder to detect because of your baby’s age, correct? You can’t see slurred speech, muscle coordination issues, dizziness or confusion in a three month old.
Often, Tylenol, ibuprofen, allergy meds and certain medications can be administered by caregivers with no medical licensure. However, heart medication is incredibly potent with a narrow therapeutic margin, and the person giving it must be able to assess/evaluate for toxicity. Medical daycares exist for kids like these.
"Privately-run child care centers -- like other public accommodations such as private schools, recreation centers, restaurants, hotels, movie theaters, and banks -- must comply with title III of the ADA. Child care services provided by government agencies, such as Head Start, summer programs, and extended school day programs, must comply with title II of the ADA. Both titles apply to a child care center's interactions with the children, parents, guardians, and potential customers that it serves.".
2. Neither his cardiologist nor his electrophysiologist have ever required taking his pulse or blood pressure before administering his medication. He's receiving some of the best care in the country for his condition and it is being monitored appropriately.
You chose to leave him with unlicensed caregivers, but an established facility will not dole out a beta blocker for a newborn with a heart defect. Before your child receives it, their pulse and blood pressure should be taken so that it falls within specific parameters. Just because you’ve chosen to take risks with your baby’s health does not mean anyone else should be forced to.
Google “PPEC near me” and you will find daycare facility staffed by nurses who will be able to watch your baby. And stop leaving your baby with random babysitters. I can’t tell you how many babies I’ve worked with that ended up with permanent disabilities because mommy and daddy neglected to understand the seriousness of their condition, leaving the kiddo to the care of poor sitters who were ill-equipped to deal with emergencies.
Insurance Underwriter here - some insurance policies will not allow child care providers to administer serious medications. Some won't allow any medications. It's possible that they genuinely wanted to assist you, but found out they would be in violation of their policy. I represent a lot of carriers and would find this a very hard sell to all of them.
Talk to lawyers that practice the right kind of law, but even if you find one, it's still going to take awhile to get everything going so your kid still won't be in a daycare. Practically, you need to find another daycare to put him in and you definitely need to disclose this medical condition in the intro so you aren't caught up in this cycle again.