As child death was so common in the past, did this mean that parents didn’t become as attached to their children just in case? Or did they suffer deeply each child they lost? If so how did they manage these painful emotions?
Are we less bored than we used to be? With tv and phones and games etc do we feel less boredom? Or do humans find interest in whatever is around at the time, so my great grandmother would have been about as bored as me?
So early work in the history of the child suggested this, not because they thought people were cruel in the past but they thought the psychological trauma would have been horrific if you didn't have coping mechanisms. However, recent work emphasises that many parents experienced significant grief on the deaths of all of their children, and had a range of coping mechanisms, typically tied to religion and the belief in the afterlife, to help them cope with these situations. That people loved such children can be seen in their inclusion in family portraits long after their death (sometimes marked by things like halos or other symbols that show they're dead), by single portraits of dead children that were sometimes used as devotional practices - encouraging parents to be faithful so they could meet their children again; and by the range of personal writings where grief was expressed. What was different was that child death was really common and so it was a thing people shared in common with each other; thus, for example in the 18thC, people were often encouraged to help comfort each other through their shared grief. I think that cultures where this was more normal had better techniques and support mechanisms to help people manage grief. Having said this, what we might call 'abnormal grief', where people become ill with grief, is also found in the past. It is especially associated with mothers, but examples of men exist too. I recently came across a criminal case in the early 19thC where the local leaders asked for a father to be excused as mad as he had recently lost several children in a fire, and 12 children in total. It's sad stuff!