As a heads up we don't allow directly pinging an expert in a thread to be like "Hey can you answer this." It tends to feel a bit rude and puts people on the spot. We do send alerts to our various flairs when we see something in their area, but life as it is means it really depends on their time.
But if you want to browse the panel for question ideas or see if there's anyone who might be able to tackle it in the first place, you can check out , and some users .
As Gankom has already observed, we do regularly alert flairs when a question pops up that's in their field, and some people have set alerts for themselves to catch questions in their field.
But no amount of notification can solve the simple problem of there not being enough hours in the day.
I can attest that's true, and I have it easy. I work from home and set my own hours, and even then, I still don't have all that much time to devote to FAQ Finding or banging on about water. Now, imagine that you've got a full-time job (potentially teaching the very topic you're flaired in, for some of us) and you get a question that needs a lot of research to do justice. That's going to bring down anyone's answer rate no matter how enthusiastic they are. If a topic needs ten hours of research but they only have five free hours in a day...well.
I'd like to emphasise this. We survey our flairs every so often, and the last one included a question asking about what factor was most important that prevented a flair from answering a question. The single largest factor is that they just plain do not have the time. It dwarfs every other reason why a flair might not answer - there are more responses citing lack of time than every other response put together. There just aren't enough hours in a day for people to go about their daily lives, then go on the subreddit and put in the work of answering a question.
I actually fell foul of this not too long ago, when someone asked a follow-up question and I, too, asked if they would answer it.