I'll try and offer a perspective from South Asia, here heraldry didn't play much of a role in battles, and yet the opposing armies managed to make heads and tails of who was friend and who was foe. But before we dwell on that let us take a look at how battles generally progressed in the time period of our concern.
Based on what we know of how medieval combat went down, you most probably wouldn't be in a scenario where combatants are locked in individual melee, where lines are mixed or when the ranks of each side meld into one another, losing any cohesion.
What happened, most likely, and based on the sources we have, is that two lines advanced but when they got to a distance where they would soon meet, the front and second and perhaps even the third ranks facing the enemy would meet, only the first ranks engaging in actual fighting, the ones in the immediate rear giving them space to maneuver and watching their flanks and the ones in their rear still, holding position and waiting with anticipation.
The understanding of warfare in the period as it exists today, tells us that in battle, no more than the first and second ranks engaged. When two opposing armies, or two opposing infantry formations approached one another the advance would be in accordance with a pace at which the soldiers could maintain cohesion and support of their neighbouring comrades, collective action and support in depth from the men standing behind the front rank soldiers in deep files, gave the men in the front ranks confidence. Once the enemy came closer the front ranks slowed their advance and the men standing behind the front rank in deep files would follow suit, eventually the first ranks came into contact, which the second rank stopped enough paces behind the first so as to allow for the first to be able to fence and fight. The job of the second rank was to support the first rank, to check his flanks, to avoid enemy break through or sudden pushes and to replace the soldiers standing before him should the man in the first rank be slain or injured by taking his place and allowing him to be dragged to move to the rear.
Now, there are also instances when lines weren't as disciplined, or when the combatants were in solid formations, but rather more spaced out on one side or both to facilitate a shock tactic. Of charging at the enemy with ferocity, to break their morale and then slay them with superior feats of arms.
Keep in mind, not to ignore the human nature of war. Of morale, of fear, of organisation and the necessity of discipline. Warfare was never an all out push or melee with combatants mixed up in enemy ranks lacking any sense of direction or understanding of whether they were fighting the enemy or their own comrades, but rather a test of nerves, skill and a period of ebbs and flows of combat. The lines of infantry were never straight, but rather curved or had bends depending on where the enemy had gained or lost ground in account of prowess in arms or exhaustion of units that gave ground. Front ranks on each side would engage and at times disengage in period of lulls in violence. The front most rank would be at the centre of the battle, the recipient of all its tensions, vigours, fears and desperation, while the ranks in their rear would await in anxiety, nervousness and restlessnes. By acting as units, by standing in deep files and columns, men were able to, by virtue of organisation and discipline, shake off to a certain extent, that fear and that concern for self preservation. This is why such formations existed. To tame men's hearts and to give them a decided advantage over unorganised forces, where men fought as individuals.
There's an intance which comes to mind, of an encounter between an army led by Trilochanapala, Brahmin King of the Kabul Shahi against the army of Mahmud, son of Sabuktegin at The Battle of Chachh, 1009 CE.
Firishta remark at how a corps of "6,000 archers was sent to provoke the enemy by Mahmud, in response to which roughly 30,000 Ghakkars, charged the Muslim lines, with axe, spear, halberd, bow and arrow and sword. Within an hour of fighting roughly 5000 Muslims lay dead".
Even here, the Hindu Ghakkars, charging the Muslim line, didn't lose sight of friend and foe. The reason being that such charges had a practical thinking behind them. To charge a line only to have a few soldiers in the front ranks break through, surrounded and slaughtered by enemies from all sides was suicidal. Hence, such charges involved causing impact and chaos at the enemy front and break the enemy from the front, cause a loss of morale and a break in the enemy's spirit and cohesion, to force him to give ground and eventually rout, which would allow for the slaughter to begin.
When they encountered each other, before any fighting, how would a group know if the other one is hostile? When a force nears a conflict zone (presumably this happened a fair amount with sieges if not with field battles) how would the two sides know who they planned on assisting?
Sorry if I come off as ungrateful; I already knew why battles themselves had clear sides. I did not word the original question well.
Now, let us try and understand how these armies might have moved. In one of the examples mentioned above, the Battle of Panipat, Babur who was the commander of the Mughal forces made use of his light horse archers that served as excellent vanguard and reconnaissance units to scout ahead and report on the enemy locations and movements. He realised that the flat plains before the small town/village of Panipat, was an excellent location to take a defensive position and utilise his wagon fort and tulughma tactics. In the coming battle of Panipat, he scored a victory by seizing the strategic initiative and taking a tactical defensive. However, such scout formations could not be sent too far ahead of an army's main column where the commander and his infantry and artillery train were positioned. Finally was an army's rearguard, which was a means of securing the rear and avoiding being trapped in ambushes or surprise attacks in the first place.
Let us examine an example to understand the how two armies approached each other, how they located one another etc.
Two armies, at the beginning of a campaign, operate on the basis of the intelligence they might have on enemy territory and movements, based off of intelligence such as spies or reconnaissance units. In case of the aggressor, the general might take initiative and move into enemy territory either to force the enemy army which is defending it's state to intercept him before he either reaches the capital or an objective of strategic and tactical import, or move in to take a strategically useful and tactically defensive position, therefore taking the strategic initiative and the tactical defensive and using defensive offense in order to force the defender to fight a battle in his own territory on a field of the attacker's choosing. Ofcourse, these examples are a representation of the circumstances that led to a number of battles in the Indian subcontinent, such as the Battle of Panipat or the Battle of Khanwa or the Battle of Tarain, and indeed in real life there's a multitude of variations in which these scenarios played out and even entirely different scenarios did take shape too, but in order to limit the parameters of this discussion let's try and focus on the above scenarios to gain an understanding of how armies might approach one another and engage in combat.
Cavalry played a crucial role in campaigns, in communications between the various columns in which an army would march and its base of operations, it's headquarters, its supply stations or the king/general/commander and their capital, in intelligence gathering and in executing maneuver warfare and shock or Steppe tactics. It's vast and varied utility and flexibility as an arm of the military made good cavalry an invaluable asset. From the very moment a campaign began, to making victories decisive, cavalry was important.
Therefore, armies didn't have pinpoint locations of their enemies before coming fairly close to each other. The reconnaissance abilities of an army played an incredible role in eliminating the fog of war to a certain extent and giving the main column of the army time to prepare for an encounter, and even the reconnaissance itself was limited by the fact that it had to maintain a minimum level of proximity with its main column, in order for intelligence to be conveyed in a fairly efficient and orderly fashion. Hence, a general's movements were informed by intelligence gained, his ability to take initiative and his understanding strategy and tactics.
Before any "actual action" even begins, the screening forces of cavalry allow for infantry on both sides to to their positions, form their line and for the artillery (in medieval to modern eras) to take positions, by discouraging their mounted counterparts from charging into as of yet disorganised infantry columns and formations looking for their right place.
Therefore, even before two armies would draw near, and well before the moments before any actual action began, the job of relaying information on the location of enemies, on their movements, on their precise camp site etc, would fall on well placed spies, and more usually and predominantly on scouts.
I'm not sure if what I thought I knew was wrong, if you're simplifying for the sake of a comprehensible post, or if South Asian warfare was much cleaner than European tended to be.
For instance, take the example a civil war with unclear territorial control. If a local ruler with a few hundred or thousand men finds another small force camped along his route to joining up with his ruler's main force, how does he tell whose side the force is on?
For what matter, for instance, the period in-between the Vth and VIIth centuries it is directly related to the nature and mobilisation of forces.