In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Literally every time a reporter sees this person, they need to ask them specifically why Hunter Biden's laptop is more important than Donald Trump stealing a trove of top secret documents.
There's literally no possible prosecution that could come out of that laptop, and everybody in the Republican party who is talking about it knows this.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Except the court of public opinion, which is why the GOP does all this dog-and-pony show bullshit. They don't have any actual policy to run on to excite and inspire Americans, so they trot out garbage like this to try to excuse their behavior.
It's not even just practically unreliable. The chain of custody on that was corrupted so badly that it and everything to do with it is completely inadmissible for any court anywhere in the United States.
You'd have to appeal a ruling on that evidence all the way up there, somehow, and if they did rule this admissible it would destroy criminal prosecution rules in the US overnight. There would be no restrictions on valid and invalid evidence. Abolishing the idea of chain of custody is beyond insane.
It works on fewer and fewer over time. “Where’s the beef?” Millennials and younger voters grew up in the internet era. Pics or it didn’t happen mindset. Republican playbook is long in the tooth.
There was one instance, US vs Shipp, but it's largely appellate. They can't just start the case there, and overturning the precedent that prohibits this evidence would actually destroy criminal prosecution in the US. Like, there would be no restriction on valid and invalid evidence anymore.
Do you want to actually address the rest of the comment or do you want to pretend that this is something that could still reasonably happen?
There's literally zero % chance that an attempt to submit that laptop as evidence in court is upheld to completion.
Getting a jury to universally accept it, given that the source is arguably a guy who was caught red handed trying to fabricate a hunter biden scandal before, is almost zero.