Lease ended years ago, and I'd been living there month to month. The property was also bought by a new company after my contact ended, and they have not given us any new contract or what so ever. What the regional manager of the new company told me was that just notify her NJ office via email and send a physical mail to the headquarter office in NC to move out, which I did.
Well then the most you would owe is whatever notice your were due, often 30 days, sometimes lease terms like 60 days roll over to the month to month.
You moved out but was your Lease over? Were you on fixed term or month to month? If fixed term you very likely owe the remainder of the lease or until the unit is rerented even if you vacated.
But you need to respond if they try to sue or send to collections and otherwise keep after their accounting/bulling Department to correct this.
You could pay an attorney to write a stern letter explaining you vacated with proper notice and they need to cease billing you. You could hire them where you are as it's just a ,light a fire under their butt' Letter not an actual issue with jurisdiction.
This has nothing to do with you owing anything security deposit/damages related right? They are billing it as rent due?
As far as I know I don't owe anything to them, rather they owe me security deposit. I know that according to NJ law.
( If your apartment building or rented house is sold, the law makes it clear that the new owner must get the tenants’ security deposits, plus interest, from the old owner. The law plainly states that the new owner is responsible to each tenant for the full amount of the tenant’s deposit, plus interest, whether or not the new owner actually got the deposits from the old owner. Cite: N.J.S.A. 46:8-20 and 21. ).
Thanks for the advice. Would it be better if I pay a real estate attorney to write on behalf of me or would that escalate situation unnecessarily? Also, if so, how much does it usually cost for a lawyer to write the letter? (never dealt with a lawyer in my life prior to this).
With small claims being your option to get back what is owed to you I don’t think paying a lawyer to write a lawyer for you is worthwhile. Ultimatums don’t matter much when their deadline already passed.
Gave them notice multiple times actually. I let my manager and the apartment office know in November via phone call, text, and email that I will be moving out in December. She answered my call then, but not after November. I literally called 10 times within a few days time frame, and emailed the office several times as well, but no answer. I let the supervisor know that I am moving out, and he checked the apartment and gave me a go.
I have received a letter saying that they are not responsible for security deposits because they have not gotten any info about it from the old owner of the apt when I asked for my deposit.
If you've paid everything you believe you owe, send them a letter certified mail (keep a copy) that you do not owe them any money and to stop contacting you about it.