Has no one ever tried the experimental archaeology-type approach of getting people that know Old English and Old Norse and seeing whether they can communicate speaking only in those respective languages?
It might be worth checking some examples of the previous answers by me and others in these previous question threads:
Thanks - that’s very helpful and I’m actually quite surprised that there’s a good chance they could understand each other. I would have thought the languages were very different.
As /u/y_sengaku notes, opinions vary, which is one reason I hesitated to respond. But y_sengaku's response to /u/EmptyMargins also raises a few specifics that I'd like to double down on.
If you're interested in learning these languages on your own, I highly recommend checking out and/or .
One entry of Anglo-Saxon Chronicles, suggests it was indeed the cases in some cases, especially in early Viking Age:
I wouldn't like to go into some details here, such as the exact origin of the plunderers here (some manuscripts of ASC specifies here as the Northmen from Hereða lande, usually rendered as Hordaland in now western Norway), or whether it was really the first case (prior to the famous Lindisfarne one) of the attacks.
The majority of scholars now surmise, however, that there are some relationship between the British people and the Scandinavians in more peaceful nature like trading in course of the 8th centuries. To give an example, as I mentioned in , it is not always easy to contextualize the archaeological finds, and a few archaeologists interpret.
the background of some Insular (British/ Irish) objects found in the graves in the 9th century western Scandinavia as a result of such a 'peaceful' interaction rather than that of the simple looting. At least, it is quite safe to say that the ships harring in Lindisfarne in 793 had not been the first ships seen in the British Isles for several centuries, as a literal interpretation of the famous letter of Alcuin might suggests.
It is also worth noting that the 'nation-wide' coastal warning network that covered the whole England was nearly impossible to implement, at least in the first half of the 9th century. As I alluded to in , the Anglo-Saxons latest since the late 9th/ early 10th centuries onward developed the beacon network to monitor whereabouts of the Vikings, but Anglo-Saxon kingdoms up to the period of the well-known 'Great Army' of the Vikings (860s) had divided the political geography of England. It would be rather easier for the Vikings to escape the monitoring then, just by moving from an offshore of one kingdom to another.
Second, while we should be cautious about reading the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle too literally, its first report of viking violence at Portland in 787 hinges around the assumption that Scandinavians were already known as traders before the Viking Age. This fits the evidence of Portmahomack above, and it also fits what we know of Viking Age ship technology. In the later Viking Age it would be easy to tell the longship of a raiding party from a cargo-carrying knorr, but early Viking-Age ships like the Gokstad ship or Oseberg ship were both long enough to have a large crew and wide enough to carry a bit of cargo. That makes the story of the ill-fated reeve of Portland plausible. And it further suggests that there were ongoing interactions in the 700s where Scandinavians and Anglo-Saxons needed to find ways to be mutually intelligible.
First, excavators at the monastery of Portmahomack on the eastern coast of Scotland discovered two men (burials 129 and 153) who had been raised in Scandinavia (inferred from strontium and oxygen isotope analysis of their bones) and buried in the 700s (based on radiocarbon dating). Although it's not entirely clear what language would have been the lingua franca of the monastery, it's surprisingly definitive evidence that some Scandinavians were crossing the North Sea before the Viking Age.
And finally, as someone who researches in both Old English and Old Norse, I suspect an 18-year-old taken from Scandinavia and dropped in an Anglo-Saxon monastery would have understood very little indeed—at least at first. I studied Old Norse first and found the transition to Old English fairly easy, but I already had a broad background in medieval and modern languages. Certainly there were many people in the early Middle Ages who were even more comfortable with languages than I am. Frisian traders, for example, are known to have operated in both the North Sea and the Baltic, and the Norwegian chieftain Ohthere who visited King Alfred around 890 could probably communicate in Old Norse, Old English, and (I'd wager) Old Irish, if not Frisian as well.
If you think the early raiders were just country boys visiting from the fjords, then they'd lack the linguistic background necessary to make the jump from Norse to Old English. But if you think (as I do) that there were already well-traveled men among even the earliest groups of viking raiders, then there'd likely be individuals who could communicate without much apparent difficulty. By the time you get to the bigger raiding armies of the mid-800s (maybe by the 840s?), those were almost certainly cobbled together of groups from different regions, so many of those boys would have needed to develop agile ears as well. And by the 900s, most viking groups were basically colonizers who would have had long-term exposure to local languages. By 873, I think it's very plausible that a member of of viking band would not only be adept at languages in general but would likely have had some decent exposure to Old English as well.