This is a subject that almost neatly intersects every gap in our knowledge of daily life in the Norse world. Written sources on daily life are extremely rare, and often scholars attempt to extrapolate from later sources, mine through saga sources for possible practices, look to other contemporary societies, or rely on archaeology. Wet nursing is complicated because it is a practice that our sources, limited as they are, have almost no interest or need to portray. Focus on women's daily lives and accurately portraying their daily rhythm was hardly the focus of saga writings. So what are we left with? Most scholarship on activity like wet nursing comes from saga sources, limited as their portrayal of women's daily lives actually is.
Wet nursing is a commonly attested practice in the medieval world, and it makes sense that high status women in the Norse world would exploit the labor of their social inferiors, however the actual evidence of this practice is, rather scant. Jenny Jochens describes nursing shortly in Women in Old Norse Society and makes a few broad claims based largely on saga evidence. She specifically claims that nursing lasted about two years for children, and points out that many families followed this natural birth control with children coming every couple years. Most women would have had to return to work almost immediately after giving birth, though this would be less the case among the elite of Iceland. She finally notes that breast feeding declined rapidly in Iceland in the late Middle Ages where a substitute was formed from fish/meat and thinned butter, Jochens blames this practice for the abnormally high infant mortality in Iceland up to the 17th century.
story in _Geirmundar þáttr heljarskinns_ has a story of a queen who gives birth to two dark-skinned children she finds so ugly that she forces a thrall/slave woman of hers who'd given birth to swap them. (but later their respective noble and slave natures would reveal themselves despite the appearance) This story is probably not from the Viking Age though, even though it takes place during it, and not really a wet nurse.
In agreement with what /u/y_sengaku says, the concept of _fostering_ another's child and of being a foster-child is common in the Old Norse literature. So are mentions of female slaves/concubines taking part in child-raising. It's not at all implausible that someone who owned slaves would use one as a wet-nurse. Obviously there's no legal prohibition; they're _property_. Slaves were probably not that common though.
Sadly this is about all that Jochens has to say on the subject. It would make intuitive sense that high ranking women in Iceland would employ wet nurses, but the actual evidence of this practice isn't that clear cut. One example she mentions, Hallfrithr Einarsdottir the third wife of Snorri the Chieftain, with 13 children. While this is an extremely high amount of children for one woman to have, even by medieval standards, following that 2 year nursing period I mentioned is perfectly plausible for Hallfrithr to accomplish, assuming good fortune in child birth and plentiful access to resources (which she had). So its perfectly possible given what we know about nursing and child rearing in Iceland in the Middle Ages that even this elite woman did not engage in wet nursing. Whether this particular woman was an exception or not is sadly impossible to determine firmly.
That said, I'm with /u/Steelcan909 and his sources that wet-nursing and beyond probably was a thing; if you're a high-status female in a household that has female slaves, why not? The Saga literature often takes place in mythical times and places, and even when it does deal with Viking Age society, is tersely written where the details of ordinary everyday life are at most hinted at.