The Abrams is not a tank that exists in a void, it is a complete weapons system. That includes multiple M-88A2 recovery vehicles for each unit/division of tanks, Fuel delivery vehicles to keep up with the RAVENOUS appetite of the machines (Probably HEMTTs, as Ukraine has some already and is familiar) depot facility tooling, spares, and maintenance/operational training.
Both of those units are powered by mechanical fuel injected engines, identical to tractor engines, with no electronics needed for operation. Their transmissions are both units descended from the same WWII German designs. Those are absolutely PERFECT vehicles for the job. They just need suitable quality diesel and oil and will probably run thousands of hours with little maintenance. Parts are primarily non precision stuff, and anything precision (turbocharger, injection pump) will be modular and field replaceable. Mechanic Antin is very qualified, but Antin doesnt have an entire depot that has power packs for an Abrams while he's in the field fixing a tank. He does have hand tools, training, and a truck full of spares that will fit the MT883 Ka-500 in the pzH2000, gepard, leclerc, leopard 2, challenger....
Quite frankly, selling the M1A1's would be a disservice almost. They rely on American style mastery of logistics, production, high tech manufacturing, and force projection. It takes THREE HUNDRED gallons of fuel to run the tank for 8 hours. To just non combat idle it needs a gallon of fuel every 6 minutes. At combat idle.. a gallon every 2 minutes. It needs a full overhaul every 12000 miles (engine and trans out.) They also have traction issues in the snow, and require special cleats to be installed in winter conditions. But the tank will destroy the cleats with its weight if they are driven too long on hard ice or concrete.
Ukraine needs AK47 style weapon systems, tanks that just sputter and spit out mud when its in their fuel. Maintenance that is not much more complicated than a tractor. Not 6 axis CNC machined precision marvels of engineering that will cough and fail at a little water in their fuel, or that literally say clearing packed snow from their intakes is battalion level maintenance.
They seem to handle German Gepard and PzH2000 really fucking well, without too much training. Yes, in the first weeks they needed a couple new guns for the PzH because they shot way more ammo than it was even believed to be possible, but other than that it has been smooth sailing.
The US would not supply the ones that have the specialized Depleted Uranium armor. They would get the export 'FMS' armor. And they'd 'downgrade' the weapons stabilization, electronics, and electro-optical systems to exportable units or off the shelf units from other countries.
The biggest danger nowadays is drones dropping grenades or suicide-bombing. Russian T series tanks are well too vulnerable, there are just so fucking many videos with barely modified Mavic 3's dropping hand grenades and cooking off the tank in the process - modern Western tanks are way better protected.
I am not underestimating the Ukrainians. They have been training with the US for quite some time. They are capable and willing. But online, people are acting like their Military can support operational tempo and logistics like the US military can.
With the US military's logistical behemoth.. it's not a question of 'Can we support this firebase in the middle of enemy territory?' It's 'Do we put a McDonalds or Burger King on our new FOB?'.