This has the potential to considerably expand Ukrainian deeper strike capability many fold because they are so much cheaper than ATACMS but have ranges so much further than the HIMARS munitions they already possess. It can help Ukraine ground Russian offensives to a halt by allowing Ukraine hit logistics, command, and Russian combat force concentrations like never before.
It looks like they are anticipating Ukraine losing ground for the next half year. The plan would probably be to let Russia expand at very heavy losses during the worst part of the year, and then launch a counter offensive once they’ve stretched themselves out.
Even if Russian rail has extended significantly, longer range weapons can effectively destroy rail FAR behind the front. This means that you could cut off the the body of the cow from the head, and thus make its resistance to the grinder almost meaningless.
The Russian military is expressly built around an offensive meat grinder. While this is shrewd in the case that the enemy is incompetent or completely routed (re: Berlin, 1945), Ukraine is anything but Berlin. The Ukrainians probably face the hardest portion of the war these next 6 months. They are in essence Great Britain during the lonely months of WWII.
The bombs are barely an increase in their current capability. They need weapons that can demolish Russian rail logistics, all the way to the Ukrainian border.
However, once the poorly trained Russians are deeper inside Ukrainian territory, a heavily mobile offensive that attacks supply lines may prevail relatively quickly. A heavy rout that late in the war might prove too much for the Russian people to stomach, as it would mean that all the gains were basically in vain.
Unless Ukraine could turn everything around quickly, it’s probably the best way to move forward. Ukrainian losses will be heavy, however, Russian losses will be greater.
From Kramatorsk to the eastern Ukrainian-Russian border is less than 100 miles. Many, many areas are similarly less than 100 miles to the border or coast. The GLSDB's can probably cover at least 80% of the temporarily occupied territory. It is a very big deal for the Ukraine armed forces. It's high impact, low cost, relatively fast (Ukrainians already know how to use HIMARS).
We already pretty much directly control every deployment of the HIMARS, we should just give them the ATACMS.
GLSDBs have a range of 150km while the HIMARs that have been provided have a range of about 80km. While ATACAMs would be ideal the GLSDBs will be a significant improvement in Ukrainian capabilities and make Russian logistics far more difficult and complicated.