They should have paid for alternate housing for the construction period, with perhaps a per diem if the alternate location didn't have cooking facilities.
NAL, but It sounds like the construction is severely impacting the habitability of your apartment, you are absolutely entitled to a rent reduction. Talk to your landlord first to try to get something negotiated. If you are unable to do so, you have a couple options.
-Pro-rate your rent accordingly and provide a written reason. For example, if your rent is $3000 and you couldn't access your apartment for parts of 5 days in a 30 day month, you would only pay $2500. You should not pay rent for any days you were not allowed in your apartment for any amount of time.
-Pay your full rent and note that you're paying "under protest" in the note line of the check or in some other written correspondence and take the landlord to small claims court.
Also note that this is the bare minimum amount that you are entitled to. Depending on your lease and state and local laws (of which im unfamiliar) you may be entitled to expenses for alternate living arrangements as well as other costs incurred.
Just be careful because, if I'm not mistaken, UT is a state that does not allow rent withholding. OP needs to come to an agreement with the landlord. If no agreement can be reached, then OP needs to file in small claims, if the amount is within the small claims cap, to recover rent paid. Withholding rent would be a violation of the lease, leading to late fees and possible eviction.
Rent withholding is recognized as a legitimate method of forcing a landlord to fix serious health or safety violations in Utah, but I'm not certain that withholding partial rent for days of uninhabitability would apply.
Paying the full rent under protest and taking it to small claims is definitely the safer option, I agree.
I think you should probably get in contact with Utah Legal Services. There are steps you can take to properly receive a rent reduction or other appropriate remedies that might be available to you, however if you take a wrong step during the process you could end up facing further housing difficulties. Do not withhold rent without speaking to legal services, and perhaps your own lawyer if they advise you to.