it depends on how much your time is worth. you should dispute the debt and if sent to collections you would have to dispute it with each of the credit bureaus and keep on top of any shenanigans they want to pull.
IANAL, but a Fraud Manager at a bank. I have got a lot of post history behind me for specifically gyms. It doesn't matter what state you live in gyms will pull the we didn't get your cancelation request, you need to do 15 steps here, or specifically not respond + delete your email. The neat thing is bank workers go to the gym too and have been burned by the same tactics. I have never known a branch to not have specific instructions for gym cancelations because it happens so much. Regardless if it was ACH or card. Getting back previously paid money is a little bit more difficult with user initiated recurring agreements. In most cases I would abandon that path and work on preventing future transactions.
You however have an unique case where the entity changed hands. There are specific laws in states regarding acquisitions and the personal information that goes along with it. Depending on state you might have an argument that you never had a relationship with company B and if it was a card transaction they're likely in violation of PCI by saving full card details. This is a highly educated guess based on my experience and that they likely switched processors and accounts during the transition.
Were you actually charged, via credit card or ACH, or did they just send you an invoice? I think RealMccoy13x's advice only applies if you were actually charged.
With that said an unauthorized claim for card looks good. A little bit harder if ACH. Your first step should be to go to the branch. Do not try to close your account since those recurring transactions will follow you to the new account which brings new problems.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Do you suppose Above All Fitness, when it was selling itself to UFC, gave UFC false or misleading documents which listed former members as current members? That could have allowed it to obtain a higher sales price. There might be fraud going on between Above All Fitness and UFC.