Call the local bar (probably a franchisee) and ask for a copy of the contract that you signed. If they cannot produce a copy of the contract you signed, that should end the inquiry.
If this was an electronic contract, it's stickier, but if you have a written admission from the owner of the club that she made a mistake and refunded you, that's going to go a long way. As will your CC pulling back the charge.
First, a little contracts 101. Not all contracts have to be in writing. Typically contracts with a renewable term like a payment plan for a club, usually do. And in this case, I think it likely does need to be in writing. But you need to check with the jurisdiction.
So I called to get a contract and they just emailed me an invoice no signed contract. They basically admitted to not having a signed contract and got mad.
Previous parent comment got deleted. IANAL, you may live in a one party consent state where as long as you consent to the call is being recorded and you are a party on the call, you don't need to let the other party know, and you may not want to let them know.
So I called the cycle bar and they cannot provide me with a signed contract all they keep saying is that they have an invoice for me.
Second, health clubs are notoriously bad actors for their contracts. They make it hard to get out of them and prosper on monthly payments by people who don't use them. As a result, many states and cities have set up laws that govern these specific agreements. Look up what your state requires. It might help you solve this and a remedy if they violated it.
This ends up being a headache that really sucks. First, I would try to reasonably go around the people calling you. Cycle bar is big enough to have a corporate. Send them a lette to corporate counsel saying I never signed the agreement. I never came after the month promised. Send them 'evidence.' And tell them you will escalate if they continued to act.
If they don't respond within a reasonable time or continue to harass you after, you likely need to get a consult from an attorney familiar with credit issues. They will likely know the local rules and can write a meaner letter with teeth.
After that if the continue, then you likely have a cause of action. There are people who specialize in creditor rights who hopefully will speak up and you'll find in the noise. Some of the rules entitled you to court costs, fees and damage multiples if a collector continues to harass you. But that is sufficiently out of my wheelhouse that you need someone who practices in that area.
Also, it is only a crime if there requisite intent to defraud her existed. Here they are acting with the reasonable belief they are owed money. There is zero here to suggest that they are running scheme to cheat her.
But at the end of the day, her concern isn't the contract, but the effect on her credit. So the real issue in dispute is how to get this large corporations with lots of clients to realize they messed up with this one and need to take their issue and shove it.
It likely matters for legal reasons their is no contract. The contract with a fitness clubs usually spells out terms like how much per month, how to cancel, and what she would have received as far as services. Without the contract, she isn't likely bound by the written contract because there is no proof she consented to the terms.
My point is that not all contracts have to be in writing. If I agree to give you a ton of lumber and you agree to pay me $!000 dollars for that ton. If I show up with the lumber, you owe me $1000. We don't need it in writing.