You need to upgrade your contract, our vet's agreement says if you don't pick up your animal within 3 days of pick up date, they have the right to bring it to the shelter.
I worked as a pet care team lead at a doggy day care and we would get dogs abandoned there like once a month. If the owner is being wishy washy with the food/care and payments then the day care needs to demand payment in FULL within a time frame (7-30 days) otherwise failure to do so will result in the dogs being put up for adoption/going to a rescue.
We'd see people all the time come see their dog or be in the hospital and make excuses and not pay and eventually just... never hear from them again. Get those pups into a place that can properly care for them and feed them - a daycare is no forever home.
The daycare I worked at usually would use in house to try to find friends or family that would want to adopt the dogs that were abandoned. Usually the customer couldnt either afford the bill or never actually planned on picking them up.
Either way, pets are property, so property laws and liens associated with such would be a method of compelling payment or relinquishing of ownership.
The major thing that doesn't make it fairly cut and dry for me as a layman is the "stable keeper" reference, which may be construed either ambiguous where a pet boarding facility qualifies, or explicitly meaning a stable for livestock.
Owner has stated in the past that she doesn’t like the dogs for various reasons. However, yesterday one of the dogs had to go to the emergency vet for (TW: gross animal stuff) for vomiting and pooping blood. We thought mom would just pay to have him put down, but he’s receiving treatment.
I’m going to ask mom if she can sign ownership over to me so we can get them to a rescue, but I’m worried since she recently paid for medical expenses that she won’t want to sign them over.
Owner has stated in the past that she doesn’t like the dogs for various reasons. However, yesterday one of the dogs had to go to the emergency vet for (TW: gross animal stuff) for vomiting and pooping blood. We thought mom would just pay to have him put down, but he’s receiving treatment.
I’m going to ask mom if she can sign ownership over to me so we can get them to a rescue, but I’m worried since she recently paid for medical expenses that she won’t want to sign them over.
Last question: so even if the established an original payment plan while they’re boarding, we can still “put our foot down” and request payment in full and once that’s not done, we can now move on to calling them abandoned?