To start, it should be said that Hitler and his ilk did not believe that the German Army had ever lost "The Great War", believing in the "Stab in the Back" where republicans and Jews back in Germany had sold out the military which still had a fighting chance, so it can be said that part of the mythos on which an important part of Nazi thinking - and German inter-war far right thinking, generally - was founded rejected the idea that the Entente powers were militarily superior. Inherent to that would be rejection of any idea that the United States arrival in 1918 had been a key part in Germany's defeat (which we'll get back to) but that also doesn't mean they were unaware of the potential opposition any of them represented, least of all the United States.
Hitler was well aware of the potential of American power, generally, so while you might call him arrogant in thinking that Germany could surpass it, it didn't stem from a lack of awareness that it existed, although his views shifted and did become more absured (than they already were) as we'll get to. If anything, much of the early drive behind Hitler's desire for German growth was to support Germany's ability to compete directly with the United States, as Hitler was quite aware that in her pre-war state, Germany was not the equal to the slumbering superpower across the ocean.
In his unpublished Second Book, which was in large part a cobbling together in 1928 of positions already given, or at least hinted to, in speaking engagements, Hitler makes fairly clear that the push for Lebensraum was, as Adam Tooze sums it up,:
To be sure, this vision of competition laid out in the pre-war environment was not solely militarily, rather it was competition more broadly as Germany sought to supplant the United States as the greatest world power (ironically for a long time Hitler believed that the UK would ally with him in this endeavor, and was quite flummoxed by British opposition for awhile), but it by no means excluded that possibility, as he certainly didn't believe the US would take it sitting down, with war almost certainly inevitable.
It is quite possible that this view was a product of what he saw in World War I, but I know of no writings that clearly lay it out, only at best allude to it in broader terms. In any case, by the mid-1930s his view began to shift, but not entirely without reason. He came to see America more and more as a weakened nation in large part because of the impact of the Great Depression, which for whatever reason he believed the US would, if not never recover from, would certainly be hobbled for a long period of time. This fall of America that he believed was happening, impacted his racial views of the country too, and to again defer to Weinberg, by this point Hitler was:
Now it must also be said that Hitler often lacked a true, cohesive platform, with massive shifts in thinking coming at times. Gerhard Weinberg demonstrates this ably in summing up Hitler's shifting views on the United States and both the ability and likelihood of opposition, as well as how he views its racial construction, which speaks a good deal to your question here. In analysis of Hitler's thinking pre-1933, and inline with the danger he saw present from the United States outlined in the Second Book, Weinberg writes:
As such it became easier and easier to dismiss it as a power that stood in his way. The showdown with American power remained inevitable, perhaps, but less and less was there fear that America might be proactive in stopping it. The vision of the racially pure, Nordic superpower ready to quash German dreams of superiority gave way to the mongrel nation that might eventually fight back, but would not be quite the same quality of enemy as originally envisioned.
What little impact the American performance in the Hundred Days Offensive could have had for him, we can say at the very least that his shift in racial thinking about America during the 1930s, combined with the more general dismissal of Entente military prowess generally as part of the "Stab-in-the-Back" myth ensured it would have been easy to ignore even if the AEF had been the sole military force on the Western Front by fall of 1918! It did, of course, create something of a duality in German strategic thinking as on the one hand American military performance - held by some to be the savior of the Entente - had to be ignored while America nevertheless remained 'the final opponent', which returns us to the core question, and how easily it could be dismissed as a "foolish fable".
The biggest problem with fighting America was thus not seen as the man-to-man match-up, where the German Soldat would of course triumph over the simple G.I., but the simple factor of distance and naval power, the former of which required the latter, and the latter of which couldn't be dismissed however much more racially pure Germany might have seen itself. Beginning in the 1930s, attempts to build-up a proper deep-water Navy were an underlying necessity of war with the US, as was development of the mythic "America-Bomber" deemed necessary to bring war to the American shore. Concerns by the late '30s were not about the individual fighting American, but how to overcome the practical problems of simply waging a war at all with a power an ocean away.
Certainly more on the practicalities of planning can be said here, but as I must be off for a bit, I hope you'll excuse me if I leave it at that for now as it is secondary to the core question about Hitler's pre-war views of America, the shift on which I hope I have adequately covered. If I have time tonight to expand on that, I'll be sure to, but for now I'll simply close by nothing that early set backs by the US military both in the Pacific and North Africa only helped to strenhen this image once war was declared, and well into World War II, Hitler continued to think that the American military was essentially incompetent, and one brilliant strategic stroke away from being pushed back out of Europe.
Just as a follow-up in anticipation of you adding more to this if you have time later, did Hitler have any knowledge of America’s reluctance for another war so soon after The Great War? Did he think he’d have more time to develop a Navy and intercontinental bomber before they fought against him?
Weinberg, Gerhard L. Germany, Hitler, and World War II: Essays in Modern German and World History. Cambridge Uni Press, 1995. Weinberg makes two allusions to dismissal of the 'legend' about America's performance, but not directly attributing it to Hitler. I'll be combing through my volume of collected speeches this evening to verify, but in any case we can safely say that it played little into Hitler's thinking, subsumed under the 'stab-in-the-back' myth, regardless of a direct quotation.
Ironically it was the Navy who was the most gung-ho for war as they believed that unrestricted submarine warfare was the surest way to victory over the UK, and some voices in the Kriegsmarine were pushing for war with the US even in 1939, but actual planning was based on being further in the future, with building programs both for ships, and the bases to support them, but actual war with the United States not really planned for until after the USSR had been defeated. Of course, the planning itself was hardly well developed. In 1939, then keels for the first two planned 'superbattleships' were laid, Weinberg rather amusingly characterizes the thoughts on how they would actually be used against the US as:
So there was basically just this vague sense that "we need bigger boats and better planes", but no concrete plan how they would be used, and this was still being developed, and quite amorphous in many ways, through 1940/41, least of all due to the starting and stopping of construction. A great deal was then handwaved away when war did come in 1941 with the assumption that Japan's naval might would be ready substitute, of course not able to operate in the Atlantic, but able to redirect the focus of the Americans it was hoped. It wasn't solely the reason Germany so readily declared war on America following Pearl Harbor, but the appeal of (believed) Japanese naval supremacy did have strong appeal for Germany, and played a role in their foreign policy thinking throughout 1941, as Hitler made pledges to support Japan militarily.
Without Japan, it is hard to say when, exactly, Germany would have felt ready to take on the US, as it takes in so many hypotheticals, but at the very least we can say no definite date was set and it was potentially years away, but Japan changed the calculus considerably, bringing an "Instant Axis Navy in a can", and Germany saw a decided advantage in trading earlier war with the US on those terms in exchange for Japanese aggression against the UK.