The best way to think about the Colonial Colleges (more on them ), which included Princeton, is to think of them as a fairly exclusive boarding school for white boys, attended by boys and men of all ages with some day students. It's an imperfect analogy but it works well enough to communicate what "college" was like in those times. Students' days were fairly regimented and similar day to day - the concept of having a major was still more than a century in the making - and the primary function of their education was to teach them to be smart by teaching them the things that smart men knew. Which is to say, their education wasn't practical in the way we think of a college education today. Rather, they followed what's known as a "classical liberal arts education.".
Before we get too far into that and comparisons to today's students, it's helpful to get a sense of what their day looked like. From an about student diets at Colonial Colleges:
This can also help us think about the life of a 13-year-old at Princeton. That is, the nature of his experiences would be linked to the reasons he was there and the network around him. If he was attending because his father was in a position of power in the local community, he likely went home and had the responsibilities of a child in his family. If, however, he was attending alone, far from home, he was likely making decisions for himself and had more responsibility. All of that said, age at that time didn't hold the same weight as it does now. There are records of 10-year-olds enrolled at Harvard in that era and it wasn't necessarily a remarkable thing like we think of a 10-year-old at Harvard today. Basically, the adults around the child thought the thing that made the most sense at that moment was for the boy to attend Harvard, so they went. (More on the history of age as it relates to school.).
There's Rev. Sydney Smith's 1809 opinion of the utility of classical education in early 19th c. England.
In terms of what 13-year-olds were studying at the time, a classical education was heavy on Greek, Latin, some math, some sciences, logic, and rhetoric. While there are lots of benefits to learning Greek and Latin from a learning sciences perspective, they weren't learning Greek and Latin in order to communicate in the language. Rather, it was because smart men knew Greek and Latin. And this, in a nutshell, is the largest difference between a 13-year-old at Princeton in the 1700s and a college First Year today; learning things because that's what smart men knew versus learning things that are applicable to a particular future.
Today's first-year college student is at a specific college because they want to learn specific things that college offers. In effect, they pick a college based on their future plans (or what they can afford, of which college accepted them, etc. But generally speaking.) During their high school experience, they were likely encouraged to pursue topics of interest, to read books that they thought were interesting, and generally encouraged to think about college as a part of finding their place in the world. Their academic achievement can best be defined as "diverse." They studied English, Math, Science, History, Music, Art, physical education, a foreign language, etc. (AKA the modern liberal arts curriculum. More on the shift from the classical curriculum to the modern one) The math they studied in HS was different than the math a 13-year-old at Princeton studied, not necessarily less or more complex... just different.
Which means, practically speaking, if you put a 13-year-old enrolled at Princeton in 1780 up against a 17-year-old enrolled at Princeton today and the questions were about the Bible and Socrates, the 13-year-old would reign supreme. Ask questions about history, literature, or statistics, the modern kid is [likely] going to come out ahead.
Would educated men just use their fluency in Greek and Latin to read the classics or whatever works of philosophy written in those languages which were then popular? The founding fathers wouldn't be chatting it up in those languages?
Did either have a significant role as a European lingua franka (of the elite) that could be used when no common first language existed?
>While there are lots of benefits to learning Greek and Latin from a learning sciences perspective, they weren't learning Greek and Latin in order to communicate in the language. Rather, it was because smart men knew Greek and Latin.
That is, there was no expectation for one to use Greek and Latin in a functional way after receiving a classical education. (Edit to clarify: men would be expected to use touchstones of Greek and Roman history similar to how people in a particular social class use fashion or geographical locations as a touchstone today. In other words, a Harvard or Princeton man would name drop Pericles in the same way one would name drop Martha's Vineyard today.) I'm cheating a bit because it's from a text well after the Colonial era had ended, but there's a passage in the 1894 NEA Committee of Ten report that reflects that general sentiment about classical languages, passed down from schoolmen to schoolmen since they first arrived on this continent. The authors write: the study of Latin has been used, "as an instrument for training the mind to habits of intellectual conscientiousness, patience, discrimination, accuracy, and thoroughness, — in a word, to habits of clear and sound thinking.".
Sullivan, J. (1965). Sydney Smith on Classics and Classicists. Arion: A Journal of Humanities and the Classics, 4(2), 167-179.
I can't locate it, but he also made some remark about how, when he was a boy learning Greek, he was flogged though the datives, then flogged through the ablatives, then through the vocatives...Obviously, not fond of classical education.
I was thinking more about the benefits of building one's background knowledge in general. That is, a young person who studies Latin and Greek is likely to have a better understanding of word meanings in English as they understand root words, etc. Studying Latin and Greek also requires building fairly strong study habits which can pay off for studying other topics.