Were the east European civilians often killed because of their ethnicity, and would you consider the much higher civilian death toll of the east compared to the west of Germany, to be indicative of an ethnic campaign of extermination, or rather victims of circumstance?
There seems to be some sort of confusion, what the Generalplan Ost actually is: The Generalplan Ost (GPO) is a series of documents that laid out plans for a German "Ostpolitik", meaning it is various plans on how to colonize and "Germanize" the territories of Poland, the Soviet Union, and – in some iterations – Czechoslovakia resp. the Czech Republic. No complete set of the GPO has yet been found because of the destruction of files carried out by the Nazis towards the end of the war, but from what we can reconstruct through circulars, witness testimony and other sources, the GPO consisted of the following documents, all prepared by Himmler's Reich Commissariat for the Strenhening of Germandom (Reichskommissariat für die Festigung des Deutschen Volkstums, RKF):
Document 2: Materials concerning settlements, created in December 1940. Dealing with the Wartheland and the General Government, this document envisions a further 130.000 km² to be used for 48.000 additional settlements in these areas, mostly populated with Volksdeutsche.
Document 1: Planning bases, created in February 1940. This describes the planned settlements in Warthegau and Western Prussia. It envisions settling about 4 million Germans in an area encompassing 87.600 km². To this end, all Jews in the area as well as a further 3.4 million Poles (44% of the inhabitants of the area) were to be removed, which going by what was the anti-Jewish policy at the time, means deported to somewhere else.
Document 6 from September 1942, the so called "Comprehensive Settlement Plan" envisioned an even grander future of German settlements in the Soviet Union and the General Government. Claiming 330.000 km² with 360.100 German farms on it, it spoke of 12 million German settlers needed, deporting or killing 30 million people, and an estimated cost for the whole project of 144 million Reichsmark.
here linked as facsimile from the German Bundesarchiv. Created in June 1942 by the Institute for Agrarian Studies it dealt with the legal, economic, and geographical basis for the envisioned plans for settlements and once again mentioned both the displacement of large number of people as well as refined the cost for the planned undertaking. It states that 31 million people were to be deported to Siberia or killed and that 5.65 million German settlers were to take their place while the cost for the undertaking would be as high as 66 million Reichsmark.
As you can probably glean from the succession of these documents, plans for the Germanization of the East got progressively grander over time, with more cost, more German settlers, more people deported or killed. With these mounting numbers of settlers, deportees and victims, and money, the crucial aspect of the GPO comes into play: Like the Hungerplan in the Soviet Union (about which I'll write more momentarily), the GPO was never fully implemented, only in very small parts.
Because of rising, cost, effort, and the course of the war, planning for the GPO stopped and all started projects in connection to the GPO came to a halt after 1942, when the Nazis decided instead to use their available resources and manpower for the war and the Holocaust. The latter had been part of the GPO since in all its iterations, it called for the removal of 100% of Jews from all these areas but especially given the problem of finding and outfitting millions of German settlers in the middle of a war, the Nazi leadership decided to focus on the removal, and from summer 1941 on, killing of the Jews.
From Document 6, two actions were realized: 40.000 Slovenes were deported from their homes to Serbia and Croatia and about 100.000 French speakers from Alsace and Luxembourg were deported to occupied France.
From Document 1, what was called the first Nahplan, the Zwischenplan, and the second Nahplan were executed. In accordance with these plans, Jewish and non-Jewish Poles were deported from the annexed territories of Poland and the Wartheland to General government in three big actions in 1939, 1940, and 1941. We can trace the deportation of at least 280.000 people, the Jews being forced into Ghettos, the Poles either brought to Germany for work and forced to relocate to a new home, mostly urban centers in the General Government. A certain number of the latter group was also killed in the Operations Tannenberg, Intelligenzaktion, and the A-B Action, a series of Einsatzgruppen operations that aimed at eliminating the "carries of the Polish nation" (intelligenzia, priests, politicians) and which amounted in its total of people killed to about 100.000.
So, as it hopefully became clear, the Generalplan Ost had in the entirety of the plans it laid out, genocidal consequences, calling for the removal and the killing of all in all 30 million people from all over Europe to make space for 12 million German settlers. But while the GPO showcases the genocidal nature of the Nazi regime in yet another one of its facets, unlike the Holocaust, meaning the orgnaized, state-driven and sponsored program to murder Europe's Jews and so-called Gypsies, it was never implemented in this genocidal entirety.
The reason, they are not commonly included in the term Holocaust however, is the practical and structural difference between the systematic, bureaucratic, state-sponsored persecution and murder of six million Jews and up to half a million Roma, Sinti, and other groups persecuted as "gypsies" by the Nazi regime and its collaborators and these actions.
It was the Nazis' plan and policy to kill every Jew and every "gypsy" they could get their hands on, regardless of who they were, what they did, their gender, age, nationality, class or political conviction. They built an entire administration, bureaucracy, and infrastructure to that specific end and used all the tools the modern state has at its disposal from the rail way to the army in order to achieve this goal. What the Nazis referred to as the "final solution to the Jewish question" was genocide in its most encompassing and most extreme form.
From Document 5, two of the planned settlement centers were partially realized in two areas: Zamosc in Poland and Shytomyr in Ukraine. The Aktion Zamosc is probably the most famous of all the actions in connection with the GPO. It was started in November 1942 and intended to be seen as a showcase for the German future envisioned for after the war. The area as well as the point in time was selected because the Operation Reinhard, the organized murder of Jews from Poland, was in full swing at the time and for Himmler, German settler policy and the Holocaust went hand in hand when it come to showcasing what a German Europe would look like. Running under the auspices of Odilo Globocnik – the man in charge of the Operation Reinhard – about 100.000 Poles were driven out of their homes. Most of them managed to flee but 51.000 were deported or resettled. These 51.0000 were classified in four groups, according to their "racial worth", two groups were intended for "Germanization", one for deportation to Germany as forced laborers (the biggest group of the lot), and the final group for resettlement in villages that been previously inhabited by Jews, now killed in the death camps of Operation Reinhard. Originally intended for 60.000 German settlers, only 9.000 Germans could be found to settle there and the Nazis were forced to abandon the project in 1943 due to Partisan activity. A similar story on a much smaller scale unfolded in Shytomyr in 1942 and 1943 near Himmler's headquarters there. 15.000 Ukrainians were deported, mostly as forced labor to Germany, and 10.000 Volksdeutsche German settlers brought there.
The Nazi regime subjected millions of people to violence, starvation, exploitation of labor, imprisonment, and murder but no other group was targeted so systematically and with such totality than the Jews and "gypsies". These key differences become apparent when we look at how this was put in practice. While the Nazis did indeed start killing handicapped and disabled Germans before they started killing Jews, they did not pressure foreign governments to hand over their handicapped for example as they did with Jews. The fact that the Nazi government exerted diplomatic pressure on the Imperial Japanese government to hand over the 18.000 Jews in Shanghai demonstrates that for the Nazis even a comparatively small number of Jews thousands of miles away from any of their territory represented such a danger to them in their minds that they had to die.
Similarly, the Nazi regime imprisoned and shot thousands upon thousands of Soviet and Polish citizens, yet they never built camps that only existed with the sole purpose of murdering all Poles or Soviets they could get their hands on like they did with Jews. Camps such as Sobibor, Treblinka and Belzec were nothing but a modicum of infrastructure surrounding a gas chamber. In Treblinka, a camp barely the size of two soccer fields, up to 900.000 Jews were murdered in the span of a year.
This all does in no way minimize or trivialize the horrors and cruelty of how the Nazis treated their non-Jewish victims. Soviets and Poles, handicapped and mentally ill people, Communists and Socialists, Jehovah's Witnesses and homosexuals, all suffered tremendously under the Nazis and unimaginable numbers of them were killed. They all need to be remembered.
Document 3: Not found yet, exact content unknown. Created in June 1941, this document dealt with the extent of settlements in the Soviet Union and included a concrete geographical area to be settled.
Alex J. Kay: Exploitation, Resettlement, Mass Murder: Political And Economic Planning for German Occupation Policy in the Soviet Union, 1940-1941. 2011.