This is going to be a somewhat difficult question to answer because historians are generally not preoccupied with the question of determining whether people were good guys or bad guys. It is not a question that many historians find particularly interesting (speaking for myself I suppose) nor is it one that the tools historians have are well suited to answering. The role of the historian is to understand that past--or something like that--not to judge it. This is not to say that historians cannot or do not judge the past: for example, I personally find the sack of Carthage by Rome to be a horrific atrocity that inflicted unimaginable misery on countless humans. But making statements like that is not something I want to spend my day doing.
This is not to say that historians have not considered the question of how we should talk about the ways we talk about the past. I will however leave a more detailed response to this to others, as I do not really think Classics has done a great job about this and so I have not received the training, but I did want to sound a note of caution regarding the whole idea of "the mores of the day". We can return to the example of the sack of Carthage: one can say that while it was severe, it was in line with the practice of the day, and so it is not to us to pass judgement. This is, I suspect, a more or less workable way to understand the perspective of Scipio Aemelianus and the Roman soldiers involved. But there is also the victim's perspective which is being erased in the assumption of a hegemonic "morals of the day" is that of the Carthaginian--would somebody who just saw their friends and family brutally murdered and the future possibilities of their life extinguished as they were marched in chains to slavery in a foreign land simply view this as fair, within the morality of the day? We have records of only one of these perspectives, and that is the one that is used to build what we consider to be "the morals of the day".
And occasionally we do have small cracks of light into those other perspectives, and they can be quite disruptive to what we say were "the morals of the day". For example, we might say that we would now consider the ill treatment of women in marriage to be simply the common practice of the day, the past, after all, is a foreign country, they do things differently there and we cannot judge them for it. To be more specific, China during the Zhou Dynasty was certainly a misogynistic society, and so we cannot "judge" them by "modern standards" in the regard. But also from that period there is a text called the Shijing ("Book of Songs"), part of which purports to be a sort of Alan Lomax style collection of folk verses. Several of these are written by women, and I suppose you can see where I am going with this:
This is precisely the perspective that gets erased with blanket statements about "the morals of the time". We can say it was a misogynistic society, but the woman (or person adopting the literary persona) certainly does not view it that way.
If you want a theoretical perspective on this, I would recommend James C Scott's Weapons of the Weak, which is an anthropological account of a Malaysian village in which he documents "everyday resistance" to the class structures and hegemonic ideologies of the area. It is an attempt to uncover the alternate perspectives on society that are typically ignored by the literary record which is overwhelming written for and by elites.
I think this is because questions of historical morality get right to the heart of what even is morality, whether morality is absolute, whether morality depends or should depend on culture, etc. These questions are not historical, but philosophical. Sometimes, I feel, saying that we can't judge the past by our standards feels like a cop-out that allows historians to not confront questions of morality in the past that necessarily impact the present. But trying to do so threatens to transform an objetive (or trying to be objective) analysis of the past into a subjective treatise on philosophy.
And that statement itself is an ought statement. It's a judgement that one could very reasonably disagree with. I would argue that questions of morality play into every history that is written. Just the choice of which story to tell paints a moral picture about which story deserves to be heard. The very language used has a moral element. Witness the change among historians in the last quarter century toward using "enslaver" rather than "master" when discussion slave-holding individuals.