This one is actually for Africa Floating, but being a clown for my seniors RL stuff get in the way and it came up late, so i'll just post it here instead. This one is about Ottoman influence on South African Muslims in the 19th-20th century.
Similar themes were examined, with different depth and more sensible perspective, in the opinion piece of July 2^nd - “New horizons of Italy”, A. Lanzillo.
And we press on with Mussolini's Popolo d'Italia covering the early steps of Nitti's government – hopeful that such coverage will provide us with a counterpoint for the Italian diplomatic action, as well as an introduction for the internal preparations for the elections of November 1919.
That being so, those were still minor provisions concerning internal matters - “of marked political consequence” according to Mussolini, but not worth spending many words on. The attention of the Popolo d'Italia returned therefore to foreign policy. And first, Mussolini doubted that Nitti could really pursue the direction which was discussed in parliamentary and ministerial spheres.
Not only was the date of reopening still uncertain, but the first acts of the new Ministry “fully justify doubts and perplexities”.
This should not have come as a surprise since Nitti, the “pot-bellied” new prime minister, was “coherent with his past deeds. He didn't want the war; he doesn't like those who made the war”. And, for this reason – Mussolini argued – it was dubious whether he was going to realize the electoral reform ahead of the new elections, “since his friends, the official socialists, don't care for it one bit”.
This ambiguous international tendency of Nitti – who indeed, in agreement with every other constitutional, parliamentary force, and for quite obvious reasons had no intention to proceed to an unilateral annexation (the argument served, of course, as “a demagogic expedient”), and would have regarded the idea as completely reckless – was paired with a desire to come to “a reconciliation with the elements of official socialism”. Which meant going against the combatants – in this repeating the traditional combatantist argument that the “crisis could not be solved within the narrow, mephitic circle of the Italian Parliament”, but only within the nation, entrusting the function of political leadership to the combatants and to the productive forces of the nation. No surprise therefore that, under Nitti, a true parliamentary man, “measures against the arditi and the political initiatives of the combatants” were to be foreseen.
Even those distensive measures that everyone could regard as necessary – such as the abolition of censorship and the resumption of demobilization (not that the “national” press had complained much when demobilization had been halted from April to June) – couldn't be taken at face value as positives.
On this point Mussolini's take was to prove less accurate than his realistic (but coached in the annexation-straw-man) evaluation of the perspective foreign policy of the new ministry. The fact that Nitti wasn't going to declare the annexation of Fiume was indeed fairly transparent – and could serve as a convenient leverage point to continue Mussolini's pursuit of the combatant forces and to hold together his ambiguous attempts to maintain a position in between the progressive, social themes of “democratic” interventionism and a foreign policy aligned to “national” interventionism, and open to the nationalist expansionist stance (hence the ambiguous take on demobilization) – as well as to maintain a tone of moderation between the two extremes of radical “democratic” voices and the radical subversive “national” right, without appearing by contrast too “conservative” or, even worse, “ministerial”.
In this direction, the Popolo d'Italia continued its front page coverage of the national congress of the Combatants Association, reporting on the submission (June 26^th 1919) of a “very important” order of business approved by the Arditi Association (an “imposing assembly of arditi” had taken place in Rome, with Vecchi, Ambrosini and Carli), which.
The subsequent acclaim reserved for the Arditi “honorably put the word end to the regrettable incident we had to complain for” on the day before, when Vecchi had been urged to leave the conference works after his attempts to direct the debate towards the preferred solution of a “political action” of the ANC. And despite Mussolini's own positive spin on things, the positive reception of an external order of business was a few steps back from the desired convergence of the ANC over the platform of the Arditi and Fasci di Combattimento. Especially considered how the Association.