Oswald denied killing Kennedy prior to his own assassination. This does not mean he didn't do it (we know many criminals deny their crimes), but it does mean that what little input we have into his thinking comes from things he did before the assassination, and those who knew him well before.
Priscilla McMillan has the unusual status of being the only person who spent significant amounts of time with both Lee Harvey Oswald (she interviewed him at lenh in 1959) and John F. Kennedy (she worked for him). This made her, after the assassination, take an interest in getting to know his window, Marina Oswald Porter. Priscilla is a remarkably sweet lady, still alive (age 92), and I feel honored to count her as a friend of mine (she also wrote a biography of J. Robert Oppenheimer, and we have been talking and occasionally meeting to discussion nuclear matters for well over a decade now). Her book, _Marina and Lee_ (1977), is entirely about trying to answer _why_. She concludes, through Marina, that Lee was essentially quite troubled, mentally, and fairly addled in his thinking, obsessed with many political matters, including Kennedy. He was an avowed Marxist who felt Kennedy posed a dire threat to Cuba, to the Soviet Union, to the Communist world. She believes that when Lee saw that the route for JFK's caravan would carry him right past his workplace — the book depository he shot from — that it was fate telling him what to do. Here is how McMillan puts it, in the end:
Now. It is very hard to get fully inside the head of even a living person (as anyone in a long-term relationship knows well), much less a dead, clearly troubled person. One must take such things with a grain of salt. One can look at the broader context — Kennedy's anti-Communism, his actions towards Cuba in particular (which made him strong enemies on the far left _and_ the far right, both for the Bay of Pigs invasion and his unwillingness to escalate it) — but ultimately, if we take the orthodox version (Oswald acted alone) for granted, then it comes down to the mindset of a single person. And while the behavior of people acting in groups is relatively easy to predict (within margins of error), the behavior of individuals is decidedly not, even for those who know them well. Especially after they are dead. So we can take all this with a grain of salt, and say, well, we probably will never know for sure, but I find Marina's guess of his mental state (as channeled through McMillan, who is a careful and compassionate thinker — not any kind of ideologue — whose instincts I trust quite a bit) is probably as good as we're going to get from people at the time.
Whether Marxism is economically or historically determinist is not really worth getting into, here (there are some historians and philosophers who say yes, some others who say no), as we are only talking about _one_ person's sense of it (if you want to say Oswald was not one of the great Marxist theorists of the 20th century, knock yourself out — I don't think anyone will object).
Surely Oswald, in his -mixed-up thinking, thought he was consciously intervening in events by assassinating Kennedy? Nothing pre-determined about that.
It seems odd to state that Marxism is deterministic. Surely Marx was advocating popular intervention via revolution, meaning we \could\ change the course of events? To Marx, the economic status quo was very much not a natural law and was in fact socially constructed, in a way that could be changed if enough people were class conscious.
There is much more in the book, but Oswald's own sense of duty and determinism is what matters here. McMillan portrays it as something that wavered for him — a sense of determinism mixed in with a hope that he would somehow be important in the larger scheme of things.