Where is the fraud coming from? As others said, she is getting food stamps. It may not be relevant to having children unless she claimed the children as part of the food stamp application.
OP - yes, at some point it may be worth getting an attorney. For now, do your due diligence. If she’s claiming the children, then open a fraud case. If not, you may just need to prove that you are the sole provider for the dependents.
She claimed sure had the children and got food stamps for them. Hence why child support was ordered. The govt doesn't support people's children when there is another parent that should be paying. But she lied because she doesn't have the children.
Have you asked her to contact her case manager (or similar) and tell the truth? She will likely lose the food stamps and may face other consequences, but it really is in her best interest to be forthcoming.
My employer does a lot of TANF work and in fact employer investigator for situations just like this.
It’s really more of a “her” issue as, once they find out she lied about the dependents, she can face some pretty severe consequences.
If she refuses to cooperate, your next step is to report the fraud. They are going to find out anyway when you prove you are the sole provider to the children and they live with you.
Like I said before. I don’t think you need an attorney yet. It sounds like you have enough proof right now without one.
Hi, I've gone through a child support case in Florida (as the mother with full custody). If I was you I'd go down to the department of revenue office and talk to them about the situation and bring all of your paperwork and court documents, this should resolve everything.
Florida is obligated to open a child support case, because the recipient is on active TANF assistance. In some States, custody and child support are two different matters. In this event, because you’ve been made aware of the upcoming scheduled event, and if you do not show, you can be defaulted. You can also inquire if you can see her petition. You should definitely contact the Florida Department of Revenue again and inquire how to appear and what documents to present to solidify your response of the plaintiff not having the children, because you do not want to be defaulted. Additionally, whatever you present may not automatically make you not responsible for providing child support. You may want to report possible fraud. You may want to consult an attorney.
If this doesn't resolve the issue, bring all documentation to your court date and give it to your judge. It won't hurt to have a lawyer as the state automatically appoints a "lawyer" to the party filing for child support. They do however have each party fill out paperwork showing how much they have spent on the child and then have the opposite party confirm those amounts before going before the judge. This will definitely go badly for the birth mother, especially if it goes all the way to court.