The early Mormon Church invested heavily in its proselytizing efforts and found its greatest success with missions to the United Kingdom. New converts were encouraged to take the arduous trip to America and across the plains to Utah as soon as they were able. Even now, descendants of immigrants from the British Isles form the largest source of the populations in Utah and Idaho .
As a consequence of these efforts, the British experience of Mormonism, which Conan Doyle might, in part, have been reacting to, was of young missionaries preaching to people who would subsequently disappear (to the U.S.) forever. Mormonism was commonly considered a cult and, of course, their practice of polygamy was well-known and widely denounced in Victorian England. Mormon missionaries were sometimes portrayed in the press and early films as Svengalis, who would mesmerize and brainwash their targets (typically young women).
Conan Doyle was known to be an avid reader and historians have suggested he based his opinions of Mormonism on several books published in England, including two by defectors from, and critics of the practice of polygamy: Fannie Stenhouse and Anna Eliza Young (one of the 55 wives of Brigham Young). These books describe a regime that was, in fact, seriously oppressive toward women. Other books commonly cited among his influences were authored by William Hickman, William Jarman and John Hyde.
William "Wild Bill" Hickman was a member of the Church, who claimed to have murdered several people at Brigham Young's direction. These included an extermination order against the Timpanogos tribe of Utah. He was later excommunicated when, according to his account, he refused to assassinate someone else at Young's order. Hickman then wrote a book admitting numerous murders, which was published under the title, Brigham's Destroying Angel: being the life, confession, and startling disclosures of the notorious Bill Hickman, the Danite chief of Utah.
Conan Doyle's first Holmes novel was clearly inspired, in part, by the Danites, a mysterious fraternal organization of Church members. The Danites were organized as a vigilante group to fight in the 1838 Mormon War, and were sometimes referred to as Destroying Angels. There is little evidence of the group's continued existence after 1838, but they became the subject of myth both in and outside the Church. Named for one of the twelve tribes of Israel, the Danites were supposed to a cabal of Mormon leaders, who acted as secret enforcers for the Church. Brigham Young repeatedly denied their existence, as he did in June 1857, when he said publicly: "\[people claim that the Danites\] are in every town and city throughout the whole of the United States, and that their object is not known by the people. That they are all over the world; that there are thousands of them, and that the life of every officer that comes here is in the hands of the Danites. That even the President of the United States is not safe, for at one wink from Brigham the Danites will be upon him and kill him...It is all a pack of nonsense, the whole of it." Perhaps not surprisingly, such denials were not universally successful in suppressing the rumors.
Conan Doyle was swept up in and convinced by some strange, fad beliefs, such as spiritualism and the existence of fairies. In any case, he wrote A Study in Scarlet in three weeks, while he was also a practicing physician, suggesting it was not a heavily researched work, but sprang from his impressions of the Church formed from rumor and whatever prior reading he had done.
Conan Doyle defended his work against a backlash from Mormons by saying the kind of events he described (murder, kidnapping, secret surveillance...) were, "a matter of historical record," though he admitted the descriptions were, "lurid." His daughter would later say, "You know, father would be the first to admit that his first Sherlock Holmes novel was full of errors about the Mormons.".
Has there been much research into Hickman's claims? Are they considered completely false, probably false, probably true, etc?
To conclude, and to answer your questions, I wouldn't say Conan Doyle had weird prejudices, but he was reflecting the unsorted mix of prejudice, myth and fact available to him at the time. Again, though clearly highly intelligent, he could be overly credulous at times. He was also a fiction writer, more concerned with delivering a sensational story than carefully recounting facts.
I'm not sure about historians looking into Hickman's claims, but there was an attempt to prosecute Brigham Young on the basis of his allegations that ultimately went nowhere. My impression is that Hickman was definitely a murderer but there is a big question about whether he acted in the Church's interest or his own.
Did Doyle know about the Mountain Meadows Massacre of 1857? It's been a long time since I read the story, but I seem to remember an event similar to the event.