I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Title: My mother signed a Lease-to-Purchase contract in 2005 with her neighbor. The contract expired in 2015. The house is now falling apart and getting complaints from the city. The tenant has invested money in home improvements and refuses to leave without being compensated. The house is in her name.
Whether that's even worthwhile depends on a host of factors including the current equity in the house.
Honestly, this does sound like a complicated mess that's been allowed to fester for far too long. It likely will require a local attorney to straighten out.
Am I correct in reading between the lines that your mom holds the current mortgage in her name and the tenant has been making inconsistent payments on your mom's behalf for quite some time?
If your mom owes the bank and the tenant hasn't been making payments on your mom's behalf as agreed, is your mom making up the missed payments herself or is your mom effectively in default on her mortgage? Is the bank threatening to foreclose on the house?
You are correct in that. Mortgage/house in her name and tenant making payments. Has missed 26 of the last 50 payments and hasn't paid since February.
It is my understanding that the tenant has a forbearance plan in place with the mortgage company. We are planning to find out more Monday about the specifics of this.
Your post is overly complicated not being rude. I would suggest you summarize and you don’t need to mention ever point pic the top couple things and take it to a lawyer or clerk of court self help they can get you in the right direction. Working with lawyers over the years I have been turned down bc like you I was worked up and mentioning every detail. They don’t like people like that. Tell the attorney you trust the case then let them handle it and step away. Don’t go back and say well lawyer you didn’t say this or that blah blah.
Yes, it is quite the mess and should have been handled a long time ago. The contract should've never been signed without an attorney to begin with. But here we are today.
Awe thanks. It’s hard to take emotion out of horrible situations like this and worse it’s your mom.
-why did your mom sign that she will give the lessee all their money back plus any additional monies spent if lessee breaks the terms?
She was in a difficult place in her life and signed the contract without consulting an attorney. I can't speak directly for her, but I'm not sure to what extent she read/comprehended what she was agreeing to. The house/mortgage is still in my mom's name.
-the contact. You got me very very curious. This might be the needle in the haystack. Is it valid or not? If not it’s more of a verbal agreement which is he said she said.
The contract is notarized and signed by both parties...as far as I know it's valid. But the attorney we just spoke to regarded the contract as null and void since it wasn't filed in court and is 15+ years old. I know nothing about the legality of this situation.
First I would look into squatter law’s to be safe & then hire a bull dog attorney to evict her. That’s it. If she tries to sue you for the down payment or other monies that is separate I would think. I think you could evict the lessee yourself but the work to fill out the forms and stress is not worth it. if money is tight look into ‘non attorney services’ they help you with forms outside of the courthouse for cheap.