I don’t think you can get a restraining order on someone you haven’t had contact with in 10 years. A judge may not approve it. The best thing to do is hire security and if he shows then have them relay that it is a private event and he is not allowed. If it’s in a public place then it may be more difficult.
You’re probably not going to get a restraining order issued for something that happened ten years ago when there has been no further issues in the intervening time. You can, however, speak to the owner/operator of the venue and let them know your concerns. They surely will work with you to ensure that someone who isn’t wanted by you isn’t allowed on the property. As long as management agrees that they don’t want him there, the police detail officer can ban him from the property as soon as he shows up, and arrest him if he refuses to leave.
Of course, none of this prevents you from lying to the family and telling them that a restraining order is in place and your father will be arrested if he shows up. This might help prevent the problem in the first place.
You would have a better chance of getting private security for the night than get a police detail. You can have them only admit people on a pre-approved list or by showing an invitation.
NAL, but we dealt with almost this exact situation when we got married. Husband's estranged dad found out about the wedding, told family he was going to show up uninvited. My husband ended up breaking his silence just to send one straightforward email to him basically saying "you are under no circumstances to come to our wedding. We will have security there (an off-duty policeman), and have given them your photo. If you try to show up you will be trespassed from the premises." We also gave his photo to the ushers and a couple others we trusted to keep an eye out, and let our venue know about the situation. In the end I think the threat of being trespassed worked, he didn't show up. If you don't feel like telling him this directly, perhaps a family member could relay the message.