Not quite on the Roman model of two consuls, but the Convention did debate whether to vest executive power an independent unitary executive or some kind of committee. My source is Madison’s Notes on the Convention.
Turning to the debate on June 1 at the Convention. James Wilson initially proposed a strong unitary executive, which was seconded by Charles Pinckney.
The executive branch was first mentioned on May 29 as part of the Virginia Plan, but, at this point, there was no reference to the specific powers, composition, or selection of the executive. The next few days were largely subsumed with discussion of the legislature branch, but, on June 1, the composition of the executive branch was discussed.
Now, obviously, there was precedent for a unitary executive, but the framers did not need to go all the way back to Rome to find a model with multiple executives. At the time, the host of the convention, Pennsylvania, operated under a Supreme Executive Council, with a president, vice president, and representative from each county (11 at the time).
Franklin, who had served as the president of Pennsylvania’s council expressed reservation about this and called for debate before voting for a unitary executive.
At that point, John Rutledge expressed support for a unitary executive, but did not want the executive to have power of war and peace, which would implicitly be reserved to the legislature as representative of the people’s will.
Roger Sherman took this a further and advocated a weaker executive with no fixed number. He proposed a plan wherein the legislature would appoint ad hoc executives to carry out the will of the legislature. In effect, the legislature could assign enforcement of the laws or specific laws to any number of individuals who were answerable to Congress.
At this point, Wilson apparently made an impassioned argument for an energetic unitary executive, while acknowledging that it should not be based exactly on the British model. He alluded to Rutledge’s point about the power of war and peace.
On June 4, Wilson and Pinckney again suggested a unitary executive, with Wilson making another argument in favor. Sherman, who seems very wary of a strong unitary executive, then suggests a council of advice to constrain the executive.
At that point, Edmund Randolph decried a unitary executive as a precursor of monarchy and suggested that a council of three would be as energetic as a unitary executive.
At this point, Madison suggested that the Convention address the powers of the executive, before determining its composition. The question about the number of executives was tabled.
Eldridge Gerry expressed that an executive by committee would be inconvenient in circumstances such as war.
The New Jersey delegation needed 3/6 delegates present in order to cast a vote, and that did not happen until William Livingston arrived on June 5.
At this point, the question was put to a vote and passed 7 to 3. The Convention then moved on to a host of other issues, mainly concerning the legislature. On July 17, the question of a unitary executive was revisited for final passage and approved 10-0. The Convention would address other aspects of the executive power, but at that point, it seems the Convention had settled on a unitary executive.
New Hampshire refused to allocate money for its delegates’ travel to Philadelphia. They paid their own way, but didn’t arrive until mid-July.
Was there anything more controversial that passed with fewer than 7 votes, and would whatever state that missed the vote have potentially changed the outcome?
Due to the late arrival of NH and early departure of 2/3’s of the NY delegation (2 delegates were needed for a quorum from NY), there were never more than 11 of the 13 states voting at any time.
If you mean fewer than 7 “aye” votes, I would have to check, but I’m almost positive that there were resolutions passed with as low as 5 “aye” votes.
Do you mean less than 7 votes total? Then, no. This would not have been a sufficent quorum to conduct business, as seen in the first few days before enough delegations arrived. 18th century travel and all.
If you are curious for more info, you can find Madison’s Notes for free online. The last day for the Convention is September 17. It begins and ends with Franklin’s most famous remarks (even if James Wilson read some of them for Franklin due to his age and condition). In between, various framers make incredibly prescient remarks about the flaws of the document and their fears, Elbridge Gerry specifically mentioning sectional Civil War. Very fascinating stuff, and I recommend you read it, if you have time!