True, sometimes...actually the 10th century might even be a bit early. Much more can be said about this very large topic, but here are some older answers about what Christians thought at the time:
I am an early modernist rather than medievalist but have written extensively on European perceptions of Islam so I can give some background. The short answer is yes this is true; indeed I would be surprised if many 10th century European christian's viewed Islam as a 'separate religion' (as this would accept that it was valid in its own terms).
The earliest extant Christian accounts of Islam are not European, e.g. the Fountain of Knowledge by John of Damascus (c.745). This text presents the 'heresy of the Ishmaelites' as a diabolically inspired perversion of 'true religion' (i.e. Christianity) linking its character to the supposed moral failings of its prophet. For example, the prophet is presented as lustful and this is offered as an explanation of the practice of polygamy. This kind of logic is central to the medieval christian polemical tradition towards Islam which often presents the prophet as a kind of trickster who inverts Christianity, i.e. tricks instead of miracles (e.g. teaching a pigeon to come to his ear and pretending it is the holy ghost), expansion by conquest rather than peaceful conversion, a religion of lust instead of chastity, a heaven that offers sensual riches instead of spirituality, and other such misrepresentations.
The earliest Christian accounts of Islam are as you would expect not European (given the area of the modern middle east was largely christian at the time of the Islam conquests). However, this tradition influences later European writing. For example the 12th century latin Cluniac works included not only a translation of the Quran by Robert of Ketton, but also Peter of toledo's translation of the earlier arabic christian apologetic work Risalat al-Kindi, alongside a couple of polemical anti-islamic works by Peter of Cluny.
Even more ambivalent depictions of Islam in the medieval period don't generally portray it as a valid religion in its own right. For example in the 11 century Song of Roland the Muslim character Baligant might be seen as a somewhat sympathetic antagonist. However, Islam itself is presented as idol worshiping paganism (an odd idea that also appears in some early English mummers plays) - and in general Islam and its armies are simply an evil foil to the heroic christian forces.
The idea that Islam is a heresy and therefor a parody or inversion of Islam had a great deal of staying power for more than a thousand years. It was still basis of the standard educated Europeans ideas about Islam in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, and I have even seen it appear in nineteenth century sources.
It is hard to say whether these theological and scholarly ideas defined what the 'average' European thought about Islam in the early medieval period but we can say that these ideas were widespread among educated Europeans in later periods. For example the 17th century traveler William Lithgow claim that the reasons that Mosques take the form of domes instead of having steeples like churches is that Muslims contradict all the forms of Christianity.
I'm loath to make a continent-wide valuation judgment on whether "Christians" as a whole understood Islam as a heresy rather than a distinct religion, but we do have some evidence it might have been popularly understood as such, or at least originating from a heresy, maybe as late as the 14th century, at least in Dante.
In Inferno, Dante places Saladin, Avicenna, etc alongside other "virtuous pagans" in Limbo, which would seem to indicate that he was aware Muslims were not part of Christendom and were members of a distinct faith:
But later, in the Eighth Circle, Dante puts Muhammad and Ali alongside other heretics, schismatics, and "sowers of discord," which may (and I stress contingency here, as not all Dante scholars agree as far as I know) suggest he at least believed that Islam had been born of Christian heresy, even if it was not considered as such by the 14th century. It's worth noting that Dante seems to draw on other medieval popular fictions, such as the emperor Trajan being secretly converted to Christianity, hence his inclusion in Paradise, but I digress.
Clearly Dante had a much lower opinion of Islam's founding figures than he did of Old Testament patriarchs or a few later medieval Muslims. There is some controversy around the inclusion of Ali here, as it's unclear whether his sin is participating in a schism from Christianity, or merely creating a schism within Islam (as this would still be seen as sinful even outside of Christendom)--two pagans (Brutus and Cassius) suffer the worst possible punishment for their betrayal of another pagan (Caesar), so the hierarchy of sin still seems to apply outside of Christianity.