Berlin is a pretty gross city with a lot of problems, a local whom I knew well was very tired of the SPD so change might help shake things up.
I don't really think I have much positive to say about Berlin as a world capital. Give me Paris or London or Zurich or Rome or DC any day. It should be a much better place than it is given Germany's wealth.
Berlin is intentionally like that. They celebrate graffiti, expression, and art. They bring in immigrants and shelter refugees. The rest of Germany is more conservative and stiffer, at least according to everyone I spoke to there.
You are way to hyperbolic as if cities are monoliths. The core culture of SF isn't gays and not everyone in Berlin likes their city full of trash and defaced. Those are deferentially more prominent than the mean in their baseline societies but by no means a super majority. To tell me that those who don't conform should leave is hyperbolic, exclusionary and ridiculous.
I mean some of it is part of the culture there but the homelessness under the bridges isn't. Nor is the waste piled high in the parks. Sure they have nostalgia for the tagging for the wall but I don't think everyone there loves the artistic defacement. In museum island in Mitte they explicitly for instance ask people with signs not to tag anything and it is less defaced but still some even there. If they truly all uniformly felt it was art then I suspect those signs would not be there.
It’s funny how the cities who treat the homeless the best end up with homeless people everywhere. San Francisco is spending billions to help them, and yet all anyone says is “oh it’s so unsightly and awful.”.
I don’t really care if people don’t like the graffiti. That’s Berlin. That’s like going to SF and saying “I don’t want to see gay people.” People are welcome to their opinion, but if you don’t like the core values of the city you live in, either change or move.
Cities are diverse places with millions of opinions and not everyone chooses completely freely where they live (family, jobs, etc.). Those there have the right to express and advocate for the future they want to have no matter historical momentum or precedent.
I look forward to the day when Berlin isn't full of men pissing at lunch time in front of everyone on the S-Bahn platform. When the Spree isn't full of trash and when I don't have to watch people do drugs on the U-Bahn in front of children. Things that I have only seen in Berlin in all my years of traveling. Not everyone wants to their city to be like that including the person I was in a relationship with at the time...
You probably haven’t traveled that much. These things happen in many places, and much worse than SF.
SF has spent nearly $3B on homeless in a single year recently. There is a huge effort to fix it. Just because it hasn’t been fixed doesn’t mean that they aren’t trying.
Cities are not monoliths, but it’s silly to take a defining characteristic of local culture and be angry about it. Living in the night club area and complaining of noise. Living in the red light district and complaining of prostitution. Living near a prison and complaining about police presence.
Complaining about graffiti in Berlin is like complaining about tulips in Holland or hash shops in Amsterdam or biking in Copenhagen. Sure, you’re allowed your opinion, but that doesn’t mean it’s a good one.
I didn't specifically say what makes Berlin a shitty city is that it has graffiti... Graffiti it isn't historically important characteristic of the city... That city has been there for over 800 years. What you think of as "defining" is but a short lived fad that started no earlier than the 70s. I'll take my direct knowledge of people who lived there, their entire life over your view.
I've been in 18 countries, 44 states (and not just tiny places in Europe). You judge others without basis of anything. (Edit: I've actually lived in some of the biggest cities/most important in the world LA, NYC, DC; I've been in SF many times it treats the homeless the worst, not the government but the population; because it is so out of control).
I will concede that Berlin is a much older city than the last 50 years, but I also contend that the most recent 50 years is more relevant to modern life than the thousand before it. Berlin especially doesn’t really have old buildings the way most of europe does. It basically was reborn from the ashes in the 50s.
You just wanted to throw fuel into a fire, but there is no fire. No context, no information just absolutly no sense of the correct measurement of your words in regard recent history.
Also the german political system is built in a way that parties calling the other names is a bad strategy, as the parties need to cooperate. So you dont get the level of toddler fights like in the US and the debates have actual intellectual content in them.
Honestly the AfD is "nicer" than the USA republican party. USA conservatives are a very weird brand of hysterical sociopaths.
It would be less wildly inaccurate to say what is the AFD in Germany is the hard right edge of the Republican party if it is in a major party at all. The most extreme people aren't in any party though it has gotten worse to be sure.
The CDU is sort of like Mitt Romney or probably more accurate Eisenhower kinds of Republicans. The SPD is sort of like Bill Clinton. That is center left and center right. It is true the AFD is the hardest right party in Germany but the analogy to the totality of Republicans is unfair even if there are a lot of assholes.