In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Although that is a factor, let us not dismiss the fault lies with American citizens and their voting choices (including not voting). Dark money influences people, but it does not entirely deprive us of our choices in life.
Everybody knows t was the leader of the senate that orchestrated the coup and seizure of power for the empire. The only difference is that in star wars his name was Senator Palatine and in America his name is Senator McConnell.
Almost as if the real power used his royal orange's ego to make him the scape goat and feed that ego (only to throw it away when now useless) for the long game being played since at least WWII and probably longer.
Yeah that's it Democrats keep banging those gun restrictions because they are trying to dog whistle to other Democrats everywhere that we are a solid blue wall in a united front in support of gun restrictions. Because if there's one thing we need to do is constantly reassure the bluest of Democrats that we are all about gun restrictions... What kinda political theory is that? I mean are you absolutely certain that the push for gun restrictions this last election within Texas might not have anything at all to do with the countries 2nd worst school shooting in this countries history occurring just a few months back IN TEXAS??? Or that maybe just maybe the recent repetitive occurrence of mass public shootings across the country has risen tenfold over the past 2 years . In fact we are currently averaging more than one every single day of 2022 in this country.
The Uvalde shooting happened in the spring of 2022, however 6 months later the people in that community re-elected Republicans to the state capital from governor to state senate and downwards.
Could it be that Democrats aren't just brandishing their support for gun restrictions publicly(because it's not like it's a divisive topic or anything) because people are actually worried about their children getting shot at school or at a public event? I know that's crazy talk but sometimes crazy is the right answer....
Londoners often ask me what it will take for the American people to wake up. The fact that the GOP still won so many races in November, despite the attack on women’s rights with Roe v. Wade being gutted and countless other misdeeds, says a lot more about American voters and non-voters.
Yeah but you can Gerry mander the shit out out of the house districts. And since it is Florida's house that's responsible for drawing new congressional districts every 10.years. Its really so shocking that the house ceded that power to DeSantis instead this past year. This despite they had already drawn up new districts themselves. Ohh. And the house is primarily republican in Florida. I mean who would have thought they would tear up their own newly created map in exchange for one created by DeSantis that was even more gerrymandered than theirs was.
If you knew what it was in response to, then it makes little sense to frame it the way you did in your comment. And the mental health angle is the Republican solution. And it's not a very good one which is why Democrats are not going to embrace it. Especially when Republicans will be the first to cut funding to mental health facilities as soon as we get down that road a bit. Which will just cause us to see a rebirth of horrible institutions that offer nothing but abuse and pain for those committed. Well that and putting more guns in the schools to counteract, because we repeatedly see so much success using that methodology to fight school shootings. 🙄.
Naw it came off in a negative way. Like making the claim by the original gen z appears blatantly manufactured. It gives a subconsciously negative overall vibe. Besides the fact that even with such a minimal turnout that your number presents it still was a significant increase from most election years when it comes to that age bracket getting involved and voting.