> According to Daily Star, Maslov was criticized by both Putin and the Kremlin before his death for failing to produce enough tanks for Russian troops to use in Ukraine.
Ukraine is getting Leopard 2 tanks now... Putin's going to be enraged about the lack of modern tanks. Perhaps they can find some old Soviet relics to haul out instead.
The . Obviously Parliament is not in charge of weapons transfers, and this still needs approval from the powers that be, but this could result in tanks for Ukraine. Finland has 100 Leopard 2s in storage not being used by their military, and considers the war in Ukraine vital to the defense of Finland.
But as the first linked article, and Finnish parliamentarians pointed out, Germany is not the only source for Leopard 2s. I, your non-credible defense expert, maintain we will see Leopard 2s in Ukraine before we see T-14 Armatas.
EDIT: Since I have been accused of enriching myself with fake internet points from the illegal sale of Hopium, I offer sources to back up my statement.
There was a tease maybe last week about the Russians activating their unit of twelve or so T-14 Armata tanks.
(as of 2 weeks ago). But contrary to reports that he won't sent ANY tanks, he is sending formerly scrapped .
Hell you could make it a million and it would still be an insanely cheap way to remove a Russian tank for the battlefield while getting one for yourself.
I can just imagine one wallowing onto the battlefield when suddenly an American knocks on the hatch: "how would you guys like to be millionaires?".
. This is (officially) so Czechia can provide Ukraine with older Soviet tanks. Now I did think it possible that these new tanks would end up in Ukraine, with the old tanks remaining in place, but allegedly the old tanks have already been shipped to Ukraine. Perhaps that was Hopium.
I mean, I'd do it for a new lease on life and a chance to not have to whack anyone. But you figure they probably want to grill you over and over for months about every little detail and then keep you on the hook for life, so millions for me, please.