Your employer has discretion on who to call into work as long as it doesn't violate labor laws. I'm unaware of any labor laws that says you can't pick employees who haven't worked a full-time shift to come in and work in order to not pay over time for another employee.
Employers don't need to allow employees to set schedules, outside of a union agreement to allow something of that nature. Generally speaking many employees get little to no say in their schedules, but none is required by law.
I'm GUESSING that OP was originally scheduled to work, say, Monday day shift. Then they traded with Employee B, so now Employee B is scheduled to work Monday day shift, and employee is off (though the actual written/online schedule may still have OP listed). Then Employee B had to call off, so now they have to fill that shift. OP was willing to work, and it would have been OT for them, but apparently they called Employee C, for whom it is also OT.
If I'm correct, there's no legal reason (barring union policies or employer policies) for them to call any certain employee in. They can choose, and can use whatever reasoning they want as long as it doesn't end up being illegally discriminatory (always have women work OT, never men, or along other protected class lines).
Also, OP, you wouldn't be getting PAID twice for those hour if they had called you instead of employee C. It sounds like you think you'd get paid first for being originally scheduled, and then again for actually working? That's not how it works in any reality I've ever experienced. You should be paid for the hours you, personally, actually work, and should be paid overtime for hours over 40 in a workweek (or however any exception that applies to your profession allows for). Take it to the extreme--if you were scheduled for a normal 40 hour work week, and then ended up taking that week as vacation, why would they pay you? And of course, why wouldn't they pay the people who end up covering for you? Or vice versa, wouldn't you expect to be paid if you covered for someone else? The employer isn't obligated to double-pay for hours that only one person actually worked.
The employer and/or union can have whatever policies around doling out overtime or scheduling to cover for people who call out, or whatever, that they want, as long as they don't go against the law (both discrimination and labor laws). And there may be specialized laws for firefighters, as it's a unique type of shift work, and many states allow things like working 2 24-hour shifts in a week without having to pay overtime, as long as it doesn't exceed a certain number of hours in a certain longer period, or whatever.