Here's Edward Carpenter with his lonime partner (husband) - they were buried together - George Merrill.
The point to be drawn from Orwell's critique is that these are 1. middle class styles and 2. Somewhat old fashioned by the 1930s. All of the pictures I've linked are of socialist groups from around the turn of the century in the 1890s and 1900s and Orwell, in the Road To Wigan Pier, is describing his socialist 'cranks' in exactly the same way and as having the preoccupations/influences/aesthetics that also characterised those groups.
The styles of the people above are the ones that Orwell is describing and I'd hazard they don't look especially outre to us now beyond some long hair here and there and some styles of suit associated more with early 20th century artists and workers than than with politicians or businessmen.
That's styles he's describing are from before the creation of the Labour Party, before the Russian Revolution, etc. and, specifically, Orwell is outlining a particular current of socialists - those that neither were the more orthodox Marxists of the Communist Party OR the mainstream parts of the Labour Party. Those that rejected joining either the Second or Third International while also being the radical wing of the Labour party and critical of reformism. He's writing at a time when the ILP had historically been the channel of radicals from the Pre-Labour Party Liberals into the Labour Party (the ILP pre-dated the Labour party) and now had become seen as a radical fringe of the Labour Party in which the eclectic values of late 19th and early 20th century radical reformism persisted.
The period of 1936-38 when he wrote The Road to Wigan Pier AND Homage to Catalonia could be seen as a formative period in which he was really deciding which brands of socialism he did and didn't align himself with. A movement from describing himself as a 'Tory anarchist' - a thing which always could also float around in the milieu of bourgeois English radicalism as a subculture - to describing himself as a socialist (1). He was a socialist with conservative social inclinations, didn't like 'weirdos', extolled patriotism etc., and the result was an eventual placement, as a socialist, and despite his sympathies with the anarchists in Spain, with supporting the Labour Party on the leftward edge of that party as a 'socialist' party not inimical to the establishment levers of power in Britain - opposed to the Soviets, willing to wage war, willing to work with the British civil service etc. and where his more conservative attitudes towards feminism, gay rights, vegetarianism and other social radicalism could also sit.
He was a pugancious democratic socialist that staunchly opposed the Soviets, and likely by extension many communists and Marxists, and also disliked radical liberal social reform, a thing that at that time, and certainly at the turn of the century and earlier in Britain, was almost always also in the milieu of 'socialism' writ large as a subculture.
You can get a more detailed concise overview of Orwell's political trajectory in the British left in Ian William's chapter in The Cambridge Companion to George Orwell. Although I believe that is also reproduced in full online here:
Orwell was also writing as a semi-insider. He was HIMSELF an upper middle class socialist - he went to Eton. When he went to Spain in the Spanish Civil War it was as PART of the ILP contingent then he left the ILP a couple of years later over their pacifist stance towards WW2. He is sniping at his middle class peers.
1. Ian Williams. "Orwell and the British Left" in The cambridge companion to george orwell. ed. John Rodden, Cambridge University Press, 2007.
This is very interesting. There is a large proportion of English Labour party supporters who say things like "identity politics is making us unelectable". It's funny to see how there has historically been a split within the socialist movement in England between the socially and culturally progressive "liberal élite" as they're now called, and the far more socially conservative rump - but that it seems that the class affiliated to these sections has changed - in Orwell's day, the "élites" were far more socially conservative and the "common man" seems to be more socially liberal, compared to today where anyone who thinks that you should just call people by whatever pronouns they want you to is viewed as some kind of élitist living in an ivory tower in Islinon.
Edit: add to that the fact that Carpenter looks like he could be Jeremy Corbyn's grandad, it seems the socially liberal wing hasn't changed that much in style terms!
I wouldn't say that the class perceived as affiliated with each has changed, actually at least in relation to Orwell's arguments. Orwell was positioning himself in the role of mouthpiece for the "common man" and was then using their purported social conservativism (and patriotism) as the thing that socialists should rally around. He was essentially also saying that at his time there was a liberal middle class 'elite' of socialists that were out of touch and had inherited a set of beliefs from earlier radical social movements.
Ah right, it's just quite confusing what with Orwell himself clearly being so U (not surprising for an Old Etonian) and holding a lot of U-prejudices and assumptions about the non-normative, but also attributing them to "the common man" he sought to speak for.
He seems at first to be a classic example of the class-secure Englishman who dabbles in the lifestyle or affectations of those significantly socially below him (cf. Down and Out in London and Paris), but then when you read more, especially texts like Keep The Aspidistra Flying, which is quite clearly semi-autobiographical, you see how thoroughly obsessed he is with class position (and money's role in maintaining it) and maintenance of the social hierarchy despite his socialist views. He can go to Paris and live the life of a homeless plongeur for a while, but if his English girlfriend thinks he can't pay for dinner, he's furious. I actually had to stop reading Aspidistra as it was so unpleasant.
Mapping the inner thoughts of characters in Keep the Aspidistra Flying to Orwell himself, a book specifically designed to pillory and critique the middle class’s obsession with status and wealth, is shakey at best. Just because Orwell is _aware_ of the obsession with class and position in society at large, doesn’t mean he shares it. If anything it seems that he has contempt for it.
Ah fair enough - the main character's actions are following at least one incident in Orwell's own life which I wouldn't have thought that he'd want publicised. It is perhaps also a self-critical novel, given that he relives his own what would charitably be called "indiscretion", but perhaps more accurately described as "raping his childhood sweetheart", but it's been so long since I read Aspidistra that I forget whether he romanticises what was quite clearly an awful episode in his youth or whether he more straightforwardly relives it.