So, before I begin to answer, I just want to note that I have an interest in European fashion during the 19th and early 20th century, so my answer will be from the prospective of the western world, with a particular bent towards western Europe. Basically, if I fail to specify a particular or if I generalize, please assume that I'm referring to what amounts to Victorian fashion and culture in western Europe.
Today, we wear a lot of fast fashion made of synthetic (plastic) materials, in a world where temperatures are increasing all the time in very few layers. However, the 19th century and early 20th, clothing was almost always made of natural materials like linen, cotton, silks and other such natural fibers, and despite the many layers it can often be easier to tolerate the heat in 5 layers of cotton and linen instead of two layers of a poly blend of material made with a mix of cotton and, well, plastic.
Of course, many of the details above aren't set in stone, linen was a favorable choice for keeping cool, but cotton, particularly in the US would be a cheap staple for creating clothing. Lighter colors would often be worn too, all the under layers undyed, and often fairly plain aside from maybe a ruffle at the bottom. The long sleeves of day wear at the time would keep the sun off you, protecting you along side a bonnet or parasol. But the honest fact is, it was mostly down the materials.
Let's explore what those five or so layers of clothing entail for an adult woman in 1865. She will always be wearing a shift, usually cotton, and this is the main layer against her skin. Unlike her outer clothing, this will be washed daily, and as she sweats in the summer heat, the cotton against her skin will absorb any sweat and help it disapate like modern day under-armor. The next layer will include silk or cotton stockings that come up to her knees, and keep the sweat off like her shift. The can often be paired with spilt drawer breeches, which can vary greatly in style, lenh or material. But here, we'll assume it's cotton, down to her knees and totally open on the inside of her thighs. It picks up where the stockings leave off. Next, we have a corset for support, a whale bone and cotton device that will support her chest. This is likely to be the hottest part of her outfit, given its two or three layers of reinforced cloth, but it will provide the foundation upon the rest of the outfit rests. Next comes a large hoop skirt, which everyone from American slaves to European royalty wore in the western world. Both it, and the later iterations of it, like the bustle, are very comfortable and cool to wear. As you walk, it acts like a fan almost, moving cool air under your skirt and back out again. Over it rests a light cotton skirt, maybe two if you really want some volume, then comes the outer skirt. A tailored cotton top rests over the corset, made to go with the outer skirt, creating a cool, fashionable summer look, perfect for working outside, or relaxing in your palace for the afternoon.
If you wear jeans and a t-shirt on a hot day in the southern US, your heavy jeans, which cling to your body as you walk will quickly be drenched in sweat, making your jeans cling all the tighter and more uncomfortable. Your light t-shirt will do okay, but your exposed arms will burn in the heat as your top slowly tries to wick away the sweat gathered on it. At least, that's usually my experience.
As an aside, I have worn historical clothing. My main point of personal experience is wearing an English Eilzibethan court gown in light blue silk. While it didn't have a hoopskirt (which I have worn before. Just not with historically accurate clothing), the skirts and top were honestly very comfortable in temperatures up to 95 f. Don't misunderstand, it was still very hot, but compared to wearing jeans and a t-shirt, it worked out to be about the same or a little better. I also don't want to imply that all modern fabric is awful and hot and whatever, but a lot of the cheaper stuff is just not able to compare to well made natural fabrics.
Do you have any information regarding the comfort for men's clothing? More wealthy men of the time would have worn something akin to a suit, right? I've worn modern wool suits with a cotton shirt during a US Midwest summer and it was pretty bad. It leaves me wondering how much better or worse the experience would have been.
Worth, Rachel. Clothing and landscape in Victorian England: working-class dress and rural life. Bloomsbury Publishing, 2018.
Thanks for the clarification. . I wasn't thinking necessarily about all women wearing corsettes tight-laced, only that with a bone or steel stay in a corsette, any tasks that involved bending & stooping would be difficult. My mind especially conjures images of a women attempting to do laundry - sitting on a stool, bent over a bucket of water, you know?
If you give me an hour or two, I'll have proper citations added to the main text, but I'm on my phone rn and currently extremely sick. But the references below might interest you.
Farnworth, B. "A numerical model of the combined diffusion of heat and water vapor through clothing." Textile Research Journal 56.11 (1986): 653-665.
While wool and cotton would definitely have been a fairly common choice during the cooler months, men would have likely worn linen or cotton suits. For example, the stereotype of 19th century southern men wearing white linen suits came from somewhere. Wearing tan or sun bleached suits likely would have both protected the skin from the sun and help kept sweat off of them, keeping them cool. They would have worn undershirts, in cotton, although I must admit that I am uncertain when underwear, and what type, came into fashion for men.
Sorry, should clarify I meant the white linen suits and I live in Sydney which gets surprisingly humid in Summer. I don't really have any t-shirts to speak of, I prefer business shirts (polyester) but that is hell in Summer.
Hoopskirt, crinoline and bustles are all very flexible. For example, hoopskirts that would have been worn by slaves would have been handmade with thin, flexible reeds sewn into a thin skirt. On Youtube you can find videos of women sitting and doing other things in this type of clothing. Karolina Zebrowska tends towards very humorous period videos, with a rather Slavic slant, which I enjoy. PriorAttire, another YouTuber has a variety of period dress videos, as well as several focusing on showcasing the ability to do everyday things in such clothing.
As for corsets, they were the period equivalent of a bra. It supported the back and breast, as well as providing a foundation for all the other layers to sit flatly and evenly. Most people who wore a corset didn't tightlace, which is when a corset it tied as so to reduce your waist; rather it was usually worn like a stay, which is what women wore before corsets became popular in 19th century. This is of course an over simplication, as exploration of corsetry in the 19th century is a subject upon which I could expound for hours.
But suffice it to say, as long as you simply bent at the hips instead of the back, there is very little you can't do in a corset and hoopskirt that you could otherwise do. In fact, ballerinas used to preform in them, although it must be noted ballet was rather different at that time in style to accommodate it.
Ok, I did some web searching and it seems I might be confusing corsets for stays, i.e. a garment with stiff boning in it. And similar confusion with crinoline and hoop skirt; I was thinking of the steel hooped cage skirts.
To be fair, I wasn't super clear on the underskirts. For work clothes, most women would have worn what was basically a stiffened skirt, which is very different from a steel hoopskirt, particularly for day to day stuff.
But with regards to corsets, they tend to get a bad rap. It's like saying all women wear 8 in. stilettos all day everyday. Some women do, sure, but a lot of us just wear 2-3 in. pumps, if any at all. In extreme conditions high heels can cause damage and be difficult to work in, but most women who wear heels will wear shorter pumps for just a few hours. Its obviously not a perfect analogy, but hopefully that makes sense. Most people wore their corsets just tight enough to support everything, much like stays, although they do have several differences from stays such as silhouette and design.