What's not easy is the skillful execution of those ideas. That's where all the actual work on the project comes in.
So you can hire developers, and once they're hired you can have them sign an NDA to keep them from talking about it.
But you need the developers more than they need you, because they're the ones doing the actual work.
When an original place is built, all the credit goes to the architect and not to the workers because any good worker can do the job but not anyone can have an original idea.
Hopefully the time will tell if my idea is as good as I and the few people I talked about think it is.
Interesting, I think the exact opposite. Good ideas are nor easy or hard, they either come or they don't but executors are interchangeable, there's a lot of them. Any good dev, and there's plenty of them, can give it life. Sure they do the technical work and it's valuable but the plans are already made.
However you are right, I need devs and they don't owe me anything more than what I pay them for. This is what makes the situation uncomfortable and I'm just hoping that they will not see any potential in my idea. I'll def make them sign an NDA, thanks.
I have to echo /u/Cypher_Blue 's comments here, as someone who's worked in Silicon Valley for over a decade (including in game dev).
The most pertinent point, though, is this - no developer worth your time will agree to work under an NDA for a company/person that they've never heard of. Simple as that.
Yeah, but the architect did more than have an idea. She did detailed and skilled design work to further that idea.
If you say "I want someone to build a building that looks like a seashell" then you had an idea. Maybe it's a cool idea, but it's not worth protecting because a million people may have had the same idea- that idea is cheap.
Now, if you sketch the building out and draw out detailed architectural and design plans... now you don't just have "an idea" you have those plans.
So... Do you know anything about game design? Have you created detailed storyboards for the game? Have you done the "architect" part of drawing out the detailed schematics and diagrams?
You are right to be skeptical, "I have an awesome idea, I need a dev" doesn't sound very original haha.
A friend of mine did it as he is studying web designing and he impressed me. The problem is his studies doesn't leave him much time to keep going and the issues he has on some parts are most likely trivial for professionals so I want to speed it up.
I have the mechanics of the game on paper and the reward system but I will need a mathematician in order to have an efficient system of stats/probabilities.
My knowledge in game design (0) is irrelevant since it's not a typical game, or it's a game the same way gambling could be one although it's not gambling either.
Now that I read your previous comment and wrote that one I get that it's not "just an idea" as you described it!
So to give more details. I've been "working" on it for a year, I did the in detail UX plan, I have a quite precise idea of the artistic direction I want to take and recently hired an artist. The website is mostly built but the functionalities aren't implemented.