Call the police and report you were the victim of an illegal eviction and that you need to be allowed back in (if it's safe). You can also sue him for all your OOP costs. Are you on the lease, or is only he on the lease?
Still an illegal eviction, even if you never pay rent. He has to give you 15-day written "notice to vacate." He could do that today, and you'd have 15 days before you'd legally have to leave.
Now he’s telling me he didn’t kick me out, yet I have no access to the house. I only have one written text where he said he changed the locks but if he changes them back before I get there with the cops, will I get in trouble for wasting their time?
What if he told you that you don't have a dog, or that your don't have feet, legs, or eyes. He can make up any silly lie he wants, if the locks are changed and you have no access, you were kicked out. If you put on shoes and go for a jog, you have feet. And no you won't be in trouble with the police if he changes the locks.
Genuine question here, (Not a lawyer) but at which point does a tenant get this "15-day eviction" period? I mean if the house is in OP's partners name, and they're not married and OP isn't paying rent, and there is no rental agreement, at what point does living there automatically grant rights?
It's not an eviction. Evictions happen in court. Tenancies are terminated. Tenancies are created the moment someone moves in. If I want to terminate your tenancy, I give you notice, in writing. If you are not gone in (usually) 30 days, then I have to take you to court. I can't change the locks, turn off the power, nothing. Only a sheriff with a court order can remove you. You have rights.
Pretty much instantly, in all states. Florida is rare in only requiring 15 days. If I tell you "you can move in with me" and say nothing more, and then you hire movers, end your lease, move in with me on a Saturday, I can't say on Sunday "changed my mind, you have to leave TODAY." In Florida, I can say "you have to leave in 15 days." In most states, 30 days. In a few, it can be 60 days (like GA). If I call the police to remove you, and you haven't committed any crime like domestic violence, the police will say "civil issue, take it to court.".