El Salvador's government moved thousands of suspected gang members to a newly opened "mega prison" on Friday, the latest step in a controversial crackdown on crime that has caused the Central American nation's prison population to soar.
Around 2,000 accused gang members were moved to the 40,000-person-capacity prison, considered to be the largest in the Americas, early Friday morning.
"This will be their new home, where they won't be able to do any more harm to the population," President Nayib Bukele wrote on Twitter.
In a video posted by Bukele, prisoners stripped down to white shorts, with their heads shaved, are seen running through the new prison into cells. Many bear gang tattoos.
This is pretty much what is happening. If you have any association with gangs you also go directly to jail. Go ahead it and call it bullshit but it is also really easy to Google it and get informed.
Since then, more than 64,000 suspects have been arrested in the anti-crime dragnet. Arrests can be made without a warrant, private communications are accessible by the government, and detainees no longer have the right to a lawyer.
Bukele asked his allies in El Salvador's Congress to pass a state of exception last year, which has since been extended several times, that suspends some constitutional rights after a dramatic spike in murders attributed to violent gangs.
Human rights organizations argue that innocent people have been caught up in the policy, including at least dozens who have died in police custody.
But Bukele's anti-gang push remains widely popular with Salvadorans, and the country's security minister told Reuters it would continue until all criminals are captured.
The fact that these very draconian measures are still very popular with Salvadorians points to what an insane crime problem they must have.
Let’s hope they have the wisdom to bring back proper due process once things calm down so they don’t turn into another Latin American dictatorship.
Removing due process… big human right violation right there. Its only a good system until it is not. Imagine having tattoos and getting confused because your tattoo is similar to a gang. No due process and directly to jail you go. ⚠️.
Just based off of appearance. You automatically and arbitrarily lose basically the rest of your life to incarceration.
Imagine if you could be sent away to jail for decades, not because you were convicted, but simply off of suspicion?
You get locked up as part of a mass arrest with no due process. You're innocent 100%. But most other people were indeed criminals and unredeemable.
I guess you unfortunately being part of the innocent few losing their freedom is worth it if it makes your country safer right?
But a person's whole life gets taken away from them because they think it's cool to have tattoos and look like a gang member?
That's a problem in itself, thinking that looking like a gang member is cool. But it surely isn't a crime.
I can imagine a situation where people who have a casual appearance are targeted because they don't have tattoos and shaven heads.
One innocent person being behind bars is a crime in itself. One innocent person being executed is a crime in itself.
What good is your security when you allow your government to strip away the security and life of someone who is completely innocence?
These are just the people proven to be innocent. I wouldn't doubt if the number of actual innocents is many times higher.
This happens in the US. It's been proven that a way too high percentage of death row inmates were and are actually innocent.
Justice systems are geared towards the perception of justice being served more than anything. Not towards actually getting to the truth.
This includes innocent people. Just because they might associate you with a gang doesn’t mean that at any point you participated in any illegal activities. I wouldn’t call that a safe place. No Due process means you are just locked up without representation.
Prosecutors in America don't even care if you're innocent as long as your guilty sentence benefits their careers.
I can't imagine how bad the situation is in El Salvador, when even courts are completely removed from the equation.
Also I can genuinely see that this decision for mass incarceration was made out of a true desire to benefit the greatest number of people in El Salvador instead of being born out of corruption.
Most of the problems in America are directly related to the needs of a very few people being put ahead of the vast majority.
It's suggested to be less than 5 percent in the US. But in other countries it's way higher. Like Iran, Saudi Arabia, and China.
No, I have no idea about the crime situation in El Salvador. No doubt it’s bad when draconian laws are overwhelmingly popular among voters, but Latin America also has an unfortunate history of dictatorships that abuse the power they get by cracking down on crime.
Healthcare which benefit a relative small number of companies and stakeholders at the expense of hundreds of millions of Americans.
Single use plastic which largely benefits corporations at the expense of literally billions of not just humans but other life forms.