Some depictions of Rams are more accurate than others, though it is difficult to mess up showing a log being slammed into a wall.
Suspended or hand carried rams were both used in history. They were effective due to material in fortifications, stone and brick especially, not having a propensity to flex. This leads to the material cracking and breaking when struck with a large heavy object moving with substantial velocity. So, not much to get wrong with execution.
Edit: With regard to how frequently they were used, they were common in many Sieges. Sieges are expensive to maintain, so attackers look for ways to speed up the surrender of the defending force. Usually the fastest way is to breach the defenders fortification, and rams and towers are the way it was done for a very large chunk of human history.
The ram would be replaced by the Cannon as the main breaching tool, however, around 1374, when they are first recorded as having breached a wall in Europe.
Siege towers, are also pretty straight forward, but they are often shown as dozens of towers lumbering towards their objective. In reality, it was typically between 3 and a dozen towers. These towers were formidible, and often the first targets of a defenders ire. Some towers, such as at the siege of Kenilworth Castle in 1266, could carry 200 archers and numerous catapults. Other examples of towers are basically enclosed ladders for infantry to climb walls in a protected enclosure. Pretty deadly stuff.
For an example, versions of the ballista were powerful, but usually lacked in accuracy when firing at any range. This is important as many versions, such as the springald, are small, anti-personnel weapons, and were suited to defendind walls from larger attacking forces, or being mounted in siege towers and used at closer ranges against armored defenders.
The conclusion you can draw from this is that, yes, the examples of siege weaponry are typically accurate, with exceptions made toward dramatic effect in movies and shows.
The term catapult is a blanket term, used mostly for siege engines such as a trebuchet on mangonel, but also extends toward smaller weapons such as weapon classes similar to ballistae. It is really a term for a weapon that throws something.
Trebuchets were useful for a large range of tasks, from breaking walls to launching flammable materials, to launching large numbers of smaller projectiles. These were more versitile weapons that had a number of drawbacks. Firstly, they required more experience than the aforementioned Ballista type catapults (exceptions to this do exist, but generally speaking this is true.) They were much larger, therefore more expensive to make, as well as harder to move, so they were used often by defenders in situations where an attack with siege engines was expected. A good example of the cost of these weapons is the Siege of Castle Stirling, where a large trebuchet, called War Wolf, was fired after the castle's surrender was offered, purely because King Edward I didn't want to waste the opportunity.
With this in mind, catapults were used regularly in medieval warfare and earlier, though certain catapults were more common in different points in history due to their individual capabilities.
Mangonels are the classic bucket catapult that is typically associated with the term catapult. They were used in a large portion of the world, though in my mind the most notable usage would be during the siege of Caffa by the Mongols in 1346-1347, when they hurled diseased corpses over the city's defenses.
There are many more types of catapults used in history, and if you have a question about one I would be happy to search up specific examples.
I will add that I intentionally chose the term catapult because it covers a wide variety of things. Thank you for the response.
Well, there are various examples of some trebuchets working well and others not so much. It is a mixed bag. Larger trebuchets worked well for damaging walls, though they would often be aimed at weaker points, such as the parapets or gates. Even still, this could potentially take weeks or months of constant attack, wearing down a portion of defenses. I will also note that trebuchets have also been used in defensive capabilities, usually to target attacking siege engines.
How effective were Trebuchets at actually breaking walls? I've read mixed things and can never find a straight answer.
Even up to more modern conflicts, mining has been used quite successfully. The most notable relatively recent mine used was by English and Commonwealth forces in WW1 at the Battle of Messines, part of the Spring Offensives in 1917. The series of mines killed an estimated 10,000 german defenders. Also, interestingly, catapults were also used in the same war in the form of grenade throwers, used by both Entente and Alliance forces. But I digress.
Also, as I have said before, if any questions arise or persist after reading this, feel free to ask more directly at what is confusing/intriguing you. I love history and sharing what I myself have learned is a great blessing. I also welcome input if anyone has more experience in this subject, as I have made more of a study on 19th and 20th century warfare than other areas, though I have read quite a bit on many of the wars in human history .
Direct assaults on walls were (at least later in the period where such combat was prominent) carried out by sappers when possible. Their role was to dig mines under walls where they would collapse under their own weight or the tunnel would be packed with explosives. This proved vastly more effective, and led to the development of counter-mining tactics.
Trebuchets were replaced by cannons because cannons worked better for breaching. However, prior to the cannon, the trebuchet was a reasonably decent tool to have for besieging enemies, proving better than earlier catapults such as the mangonel, though still fairly weak compared to later weapons.
For the Siege of Jerusalem that u/SwordOfAmmonx1 alluded to in 1099, the crusaders spent three weeks building a siege tower. That seems kind of counterintuitive, right? The defenders inside the city were watching them (and attacking them) the entire time, and in the end, there’s a big siege tower right in front of them, and the Muslims in Jerusalem know exactly where it is and where it’s going. How could that possibly help?
Eventually they made it onto the wall. The tower had a rough bridge that could be lowered so that the crusaders could simply walk across (well, as simply as possible given that there was a big fire and people trying to kill them on the other side).
But the night before the final day of the siege, somehow the Muslim defenders weren’t paying attention, and the crusaders disassembled the entire tower, carried it one kilometre away, and rebuilt it in front of a less well-defended part of the wall. Still, after that it took the entire day to roll the tower up against the wall, so the surprise was kind of short-lived.
The crusaders also built a huge battering ram, which broke down part of the wall, but then the Muslims poured burning oil on it and set it on fire. The crusaders actually used this to their advantage, since the fire destroyed the ram, left a hole in the wall, and left room for their siege tower to be moved up toward the hole.
There were only two siege towers here, not like movie depictions where there's an endless line of towers. The other one on the opposite side of the city was destroyed by fire:
Another example is Emperor Frederick I's siege of Crema in Italy in 1159. He had a battering ram, but just one siege tower:
Quotes are from Thomas Asbridge, The First Crusade: A New History (Oxford University Press, 2004), pg. 310-316.
(John B. Freed, Frederick Barbarossa: A Prince and the Myth (Yale University Press, 2016), pg. 247.).