First, I would like to challenge the question’s own wording: no major “sects” actually hold a stance against women education. Rather, individual actors within different sects use generalized rulings and claim the case of women’s education falls under the general umbrella of said ruling. An important first concept to unravel here is the idea of Ejma’a, I.e. Consensus. Most major islamic sects, including Sunni and Shia, believe that if the majority of reputable scholars agreed on a ruling within a given timeframe then this does imply that it is in fact what Allah wants. The actual definition of Ejma’a is a lot more strict and lenhy than this of course, and naturally there can be disagreements about whether a specific matter have reached consensus or not. However, for the interest of brevity, I will not expand on those.
Where some applications of rule of Sadd Althara’e are agreed upon one way or the other, it historically has been the easiest rule to abuse. One can see both the importance of such a rule, but also how easy it is to abuse to fit anyone’s agendas in forbidding an act as long as they can conjure up a hypothetical scenario in which said act inevitably leads to a haram act.
In Sunni school of thought, a clear promise of "[Allah] protecting the message" in the Quran is the basis for equating Ejma'a with Allah's will. The rationale goes that if all reputable scholars were to agree on a wrong interpretation of the Quran then the message certainly will be lost. Given that Allah promised to protect the message, wrong Ejma'a isn't a possibility. Other sects have their own interpretation to the source of thr validity of Ejma'a, with the most notable being the Shia's Ma'soomoon.
Essentially, most islamic sects agree on the legislative power granted by Ejma’a even though some disagreements between sects exist as to why exactly does consensus equate authenticity of claim. This is why Sunni’s give themselves the title of Ahl AlSunnah wa AlJamma’a, People of the Sunnah and Ejma’a. This title is supposed to hint at the two main sources which can be used to infer islamic rulings: either a direct ruling on an identical matter discussed in AlSunnah (i.e. the life and teaching of Prophet Mohammed) or by inference. In inference, a scholar attempts to project a modern issue into a comparable one in AlSunnah, where a direct ruling does not exist. Rulings on camels and carts are sometimes extrapolated on all methods of transportation, for instance. When sufficiently enough reputable scholars agree on the projection, the ruling reaches an Ejma’a status.
As far as my knowledge goes, no direct quote from Sunnah nor an Ejma’a exists to discourage women’s education in any of the major islamic sects. In fact, many texts do encourage pursuing knowledge and education regardless of sex. For instance, the Hadith “whoever is pursuing a path of knowledge is pursuing the path to heaven” is generally understood to be unisex. As you stated, the wives and daughters of the prophet were major scholars; AlBukharri and Muslim had multiple female teachers etc. In fact, most of the surviving literature on any voices speaking against educating women in the medieval islamic period reached us through texts directly written to refute them. Famously AlJahith dedicated entire sections of AlBayan Wa AlTibyan to mock those views as he did not view them worthy of a proper refutal.
Where then, do some individuals drive the power to make educating women haram? A second concept is needed in here: the islamic doctrine of giving means the same halal-haram categorization as their end. If a halal act inevitably leads to a haram one, or is made in pursuit of a haram act, then the halal act is ruled as haram. Once again, most islamic sects agree on this general rule itself, but scholars even within one sect disagree as to when it is applicable and when is it not. A famous application of this rule all sects agree is a wrong application is forbidding farming grapes in fear that it might enable someone to make wine out of it. Again, this is an example that is used to teach a _wrong_ application of the rule. The commonly used correct application however is forbidding insulting unislamic idols. The reasoning here is that inevitably insulting idols of practitioners of other religions leads to hatred, wars, and deaths. This general rule is known as the rule of Sadd Althara’e.
This all goes to show that the restriction of women’s education in question is not tied to a specific sect but rather to individuals choosing to enforce the rule of Sadd Althara’e under their geographical range of influence. This precisely is why you find two countries of similar islamic sects having different rules, and why the Taliban can feel justified switching back and forth between allowing and disallowing education for women. Proponents of prohibition would readily admit that no islamic text directly forbids education for women, but they will strongly argue the existence of inevitable haram consequences. Justifications vary way too wildly to count, and the reader is encouraged to play their own mental gymnastics to connect a haram act to education.
According to Dr. Ahmed AlBassam, the history of western colonization or forced influence to the islamic world cannot be ignored in this regard. While education in general long existed in the region, the modern structure of K12-BS-MS-PhD as well as the structure of each given subject is still viewed as a wildly western import in the region. The history of colonization leads some to view this import with a lot of skepticism and as another mean of western cultural domination in the region. This skepticism leads to viewing western education as more of a necessary evil contact with which to be reduced if possible. It is no coincidence, AlBassam says, that countries more hostile towards western powers end up viewing education with a demonic look as apposed to countries with friendlier relations.
The influence of culture-based patriarchal power structures too cannot be ignored, as it determines which subgroup of society get the duty/privilege to perform that “necessary evil” when western-structured education is viewed in that manner. I will attempt to return later to elaborate on the last two points and answer questions.
I hesitate to divulge into the details of the rationale as not to give it power and in fear of sounding sympathetic to a view I believe abhorrent. However, the question can be answered either in the general, discussing the historical fringe individuals who forbid education for women, or by limiting the scope to talk about Taliban. As it is clear that OP was referencing Taliban in their question or at least had them in mind, I elect to do the latter.
I'm not really familiar enough with what is considered haram to intelligently guess what justifications might be conjured for why women's education will inevitably lead there. I know full enumeration is impossible, but could you give a few common examples?
There are more axioms than this, of course, but this level of simplicity is enough to find a glaring hole. In particular, axiom (5) ignores the fact that all members of society are connected to the Zakat network. Any member of society, male or female, would be eligible for Zakat if they are unable to support themselves financially and lack the necessary direct support nodes in the Nafaqah grid. With axiom (5) falsified, I argue that most islamic scholars would disagree with the conclusion pushed by Taliban. To that end, one can point to the fact that no similar conclusion was reached by the general body of islamic scholars in many islamic countries which went through comparably limiting circumstances.
To the best of my knowledge, the leaders of Taliban never dared claim that the very concept of woman education is haram. As the view which forbids women education is rejected by all major sects, it is hard to amass a religious following while adopting it. To the best of my knowledge, Taliban previously claimed that the ban is temporary and out of necessity. Sources which list the exact reasons why are hard to come by since the heads of Taliban would rarely ever give detailed theological lectures in their public appearances, but I know of at least two claims both by second-hand sources.
First, in “The Taliban: War, Religion, and the New Order in Afghanistan” Peter Marsden emphasizes Taliban’s claim of the ban being temporary. According to him, their reasoning was that educational facilities and infrastructure needs to be revamped as to allow segregated schooling between the genders. As the reader could easily guess, the rationale for segregation was to avoid inhabiting an environment were extra-marital relationships could foster. Segregation here likely includes disallowing cross-gender instruction as well, a male teacher would not be allowed to instruct females and vice versa. Women were still educated in fields in which their participation would further enhance society’s ability to be segregated at large. The example Marsden states in his book was Taliban allowing women in the medical field as to ensure that female patients would not be attended by male doctors. Other fields were also permitted in seeking the same goal.
Peter hints at an answer to a question another poster here posed: Why only women? If it was truly only a matter of segregation, then solely allowing women education and prohibiting men's would achieve the same goal right? Well, this is the point were I personally would reference the parts in my original post about the patriarchy and abusing text to further personal agendas. If one were to insist on a direct answer from Taliban, however, then the testimonies of Faiz AlKandri might be the closest we have.