I always thought that district was for prostitution and the rest of the touristic area was for weed, never really saw people smoking while looking for sex workers there.
The " business" we bring them is destroying Hawaii, and no one respects the local land ownership rights or the environment.
Something tells me the Hawaiians would be perfectly happy if we just completely left them alone and stopped building ecological horrors on their islands.
It isn't, Amsterdam loses money on tourism... The amount of money spent on police required to keep them in check and the amount of damages the tourists cause doesn't even get covered by what Amsterdam 'earns' on tourism. Also almost all employees of restaurants and whatnot in the city centre are people with work visas, most money doesn't even end up in Amsterdam. There's Dutch articles on this if you want a source, couldn't find an English one sorry.
Edit: seems it’s in the entire inner city tho. Just means the coffee shops will move to the edge, honestly.
The other question is whether Amsterdam would still be as attractive a place without its weed industry. I personally think tourism would suffer, but not to an extreme extent. However, politicians tend to avoid hitting their inhabitants wallets...
To me, this is also intuitive, as tourism is usually a profitable industry (people are willing to pay high prices for mediocre products, just because it is in some special place). The trade offs are usually rather the destruction of nature for said profits, or in this case, stoners in every street.
Tourism is very lucrative of course, but that's not what I meant though I probably didn't explain properly. What I meant is that inhabitants of Amsterdam such as myself don't see any of the money being brought in by tourists. The main effect these people have is driving up prices for basically anything from housing to groceries in the city, and the money they do spend disappears in the pockets of a few rich multinational corporations. While there's shockingly little insight into where exactly all this tourism money goes, it's an undisputed fact that housing has become ridiculously expensive in great part due to tourism (AirBnB for example).
The first articles I found indicate the opposite, for example this one in nltimes, which refers to research of an institute associated with the University of Amsterdam.