You have a lot going on here. \[1\] POA ends at death, so Carol has no legal ability to act for Lynn on that basis. \[2\] Did Lynn have a will, and name Carol as her executor? If so, the will dictates what Carol needs to do to disburse Lynn's assets; she cannot deviate from the terms of the will. Likewise, if some assets were set up to pass outside the will (e.g., accounts with TOD/POD designees), then those terms control. If there was no will and/or accounts were not set up with beneficiaries (or some assets were not included in either category), then state law dictates what happens to the assets (usually split between surviving spouse and children). \[3\] You said Lynn's assets go to Mark (not clear exactly how this was done, per 2 above). But unless Lynn set something up prior to her death to preserve assets (e.g., trust), then unfortunately, Mark decides what happens to the assets going forward.
\[4\] POA for Mark is only valid if he is the person who granted it to Carol and signed it when he was mentally competent. Lynn cannot leave a POA for her husband. Similarly, Carol cannot "transfer" the POA to aunt Cheryl/Sharon without Mark's consent. \[5\] Mark can revoke his POA at any time. And, unless it is a durable, POA does not extend to periods of mental incapacity of Mark (which you suggest has happened). \[6\] Person holding the POA is must act in the best interests of the person who gave them the POA, so Carol cannot do what you are proposing (transfer assets without Mark's consent).
Carol is currently Mark’s power of attorney (legally and medically). So is there any way for Carol to ensure that Lynn’s grandchildren receive their benefit from her estate if something happens to Mark? Or would that all come down to whatever is listed in Mark’s will if/when that time comes?
This is all great information, thanks! Lynn did have a will. She leaves everything to Mark. If something happens to Mark, it goes to Carol, as trustee, for Lynn’s grandchildren.
\\ Some of the wording above is unclear about what the will says happens in the event Mark is incapacitated. I don't think you are suggesting that everything goes to the grandchildren in the event that Mark is incapacitated.
There is no verbiage in Lynn’s will about what happens if Mark is incapacitated. But if he is incapacitated, wouldn’t Carol, as Mark’s power of attorney, have the power to take control of Lynn’s estate?
I get that this is confusing, and I'll preface this by saying that, if you are any of the people listed (Carol, Sharon, Mark, etc.) then you really do need a lawyer to look at the will and help sort this. But, I'm going to try to respond to a number of issues that are coming up in the various comments and your responses. As others have said, none of us have seen the will, so it is educated guesswork based on what you have said.
Okay. So that is helpful info. The will dictates what happens to the estate. As you say, the primary beneficiary is Mark ("she leaves everything to Mark"). The secondary beneficiaries are the grandchildren (with Carol as trustee until they come of age). But secondary beneficiaries only come into play if Mark was already deceased\\ at the time of Lynn's death. Secondary beneficiaries in this context are entitled to nothing and have no "benefit" because Mark is still alive. Mark has no obligation to preserve any assets for their benefit. He can spend it all if he wants to. So, short answer, Mark gets everything, and his will at the time of his death (or state's intestate laws if he does not have one) will determine what happens to the property when he dies.
If Lynn is dead her power of attorney is invalid. You cannot be the power of attorney for a dead person, nor can carol revoke or grant a POA for anyone else.
POA. I think there is again some confusion here over the terms and functions of the various legal representatives. From what you've said, Lynn's will designated someone to be the executor (Mark) but he is not capable of being the executor. Carol (or Sharon if she becomes Mark's POA) will not automatically take over for Mark as executor. That is not how POAs work and it is not what they are for (plus, if Mark is incapable, then POA does not apply, per above). So, we look to the will to see if someone else is listed as an alternate. It's not clear from the comments if Lynn's will designated an alternate executor (Carol??). If it did, then that person is the executor (unless they turn down the appointment). If it did not or the named executor declines, then the Court will appoint one. Regardless of who it is, the executor must follow the terms of the will. They don't take control over anything and cannot change this to suit them. But again, from everything you've said, it all goes to Mark anyway.
ESTATE. Lynn's will dictates what happens to her assets, and the time period we are concerned with is AT THE TIME OF LYNN'S DEATH. From what you've said, MARK is the primary beneficiary (unless he is deceased). If Mark is incapable of managing the assets that Lynn left to him, then possibly a guardian would be appointed to take care of that for him. But it is a separate Court process, so no need to concern yourself with it right now. The GRANDCHILDREN are the secondary beneficiaries (irrelevant here because Mark was still alive when Lynn died). Carol gets nothing under the will. She would be the guardian/trustee of the estate if the assets were going to the grandchildren (e.g., she is necessary because they are still minors), but the assets are not going to the grandchildren because Mark is alive, so it doesn't matter. I think the confusion is because you believe that Lynn's "estate" endures forever and will languish until Mark dies so that the grandchildren get whatever is left. That is not what happens. Lynn's will is filed with the Court, a probate estate is created, and her assets are disposed of as provided in the will (from everything you've said, Mark gets it all). Once the assets are distributed, Lynn's estate is closed. Mark can do whatever he wants with the assets; spend all the money; sell the house; etc. The GRANDCHILDREN have no future right to Lynn's assets. Mark gets them, and Mark decides what happens to any remaining assets when he dies. Unfortunately, if Lynn wanted to preserve some of the assets for the grandchildren (which is what you are suggesting), she needed a trust or to divide them, or some other way to make that happen. But, that does not seem to be what Lynn wanted. She wanted them to go to Mark, or if he was already dead, then to her grandchildren.
Carol is power of attorney for both Lynn AND Mark. So when I talk about her revoking power of attorney, I mean her power of attorney over Mark, not Lynn.