As a person whose degree is in a relevant field, I can most definitely confirm that the "Spanish Flu" has not been forgotten at all. In fact, it remains one of the main reasons why epidemiologists around the world are incredibly vigilant towards outbreak of "influenza-like" illnesses such as SARS. The threat of another global pandemic is simply too great to ignore and explicitly forms of the WHO position on influenza.
It was emphasised over and over in my epidemiology lectures that the combination of infectionousness and mortality was what made a disease "deadly". For example, the various Ebola strains (and Rabies as well) have unbelievably high mortality but they are not easily transmitted from human to human. By contrast, the 200-some viruses that are collectively called the common cold are ridiculously transmissible but really don't kill many people at all. Influenza is in a sort of sweet spot in that it's quite infectious and moderately lethal - both of which are compounded by influenza's proven animal reservoirs (birds & pigs mainly) and ability to undergo antigenic drift and shift to present a novel virus to our immune systems.
All of which is known by medical professionals but the general public insists on juxtaposing the words "cold" and "flu". I always raise a highly skeptical eyebrow when colleagues tell me that they had the flu last week. A real bout of influenza can leave a healthy adult bed-ridden for a week or more.
Experts aside, you are correct that the popular culture has little awareness of the disease except to perhaps recall its name. The principal reason for this is also the reason why it is called the Spanish Flu and not the American (for the first recorded case) or Chinese (where epidemiologists believe the disease originated) Flu. It all has to do with reporting of casualties and deaths during the end and aftermath of WWI. Most nations, including Great Britain and America, had strict policies regarding reporting of such numbers while neutral Spain did not. That led to Spain correctly reporting a huge number of cases and a correspondingly high death toll while other nations remained silent. Hence the "Spanish Flu" name stuck.
The same is not true for other pandemic diseases such as influenza, cholera, typhus, tuberculosis etc. Many of them present with strikingly similar symptoms such as coughing (bloody or not), flux (bloody or not) and fever. They are further complicated because of the pronounced tendency for complications in the absence of modern medicine and antibiotics ie. A major complication of the "Spanish Flu" was pneumonia which is readily treatable in the modern age. All of these things combine to blur the edges of a historical epidemic and to make such epidemics almost impossible to identify as coming from any given root cause.
The thing is, absent the Black Death of the 14th century, most pandemics have been forgotten except by historians and perhaps the local population. For , there have been at least 3 major outbreaks of bubonic plague throughout history and yet most western history classes only focus on the 14th century version despite the consensus that the 5th 6th century version was at least as catastrophic and that all three versions led to major political upheaval in the territories afflicted.
One of the better known epidemics killed less than 1,000 people (Cholera, London, 1860) but is world-famous because of the efforts of one Dr John Snow who is generally regarded as the father of modern epidemiology. Unlike his TV namesake, Dr Snow did know many things and he was able to pioneer techniques to trace the source of outbreaks and in particular to trace the source of the cholera outbreak to a water pump in a certain district of London.
However, in major outbreaks (such as the plagues of 5th 6th & 14th centuries), so many people were afflicted and so many people died that the description of symptoms assumes a certain uniformity that allows modern researchers to have confidence that the disease reached a certain town or traveled a certain route. This is in part because bubonic plague (of any form) displays very distinctive symptoms.
The Ghost Map: The Story of London's Most Terrifying Epidemic--and How It Changed Science, Cities, and the Modern World by Steven Johnson.
The legacy of the Spanish Flu lies mainly in the attitudes and actions of modern medical professionals when confronted by the possibility of another similar global influenza pandemic.
In reality, the historicity of epidemics is a fascinating and complex subject as I alluded to in my post. How modern epidemiologists comb through hundreds of thousands of descriptions of disease trying to tease out the patterns of ancient outbreaks makes for fascinating reading (well, for me at least!).
1. Countries afflicted by the Spanish Flu largely did not report their casualties due to information blackouts imposed by the hostilities in WW1.
Great answer, minor nit: the Plague of Justinian, which you are referring to as the "5th century version" was in the 540's, which would make it a 6th century version.
And it was indeed at least as devastating as the 14th century black death, with possibly greater impact on history.
We do this sort of research because we desperately need to understand how diseases spread from animals to humans (zoonoses) and where the diseases go when they're not infecting humans (reservoirs).
For example, the eradication of smallpox was possible because smallpox only infects humans. Even if it were feasible to vaccinate everyone on the planet against influenza, it would not eliminate the disease because pigs and birds carry influenza variants that can infect humans - well, more precisely pigs can infect humans and birds can infect pigs.
On top of that you have startling new diseases like HIV, Ebola and Hendra virus that are almost certainly zoonotic in origin and establishing how and when such jumps occur has major implications for modern health policy.
On the plus side, reading about this stuff enables me to satisfy my passion for both epidemiology and history!