To insurance? Yes, absolutely. What you did was very ill-advised. You don't have a proper release and he can sue you if he decides he has back pain a year from now.
Then you get to find a lawyer and pay them out of pocket, dog. You will have then paid $1200 plus whatever the lawyer will cost you (a minimum of $300 assuming you aren't in Miami metro, then you can double it), in order to save far less than $1500 total on increased insurance premiums for the next three years.
It's crazy to me that anyone thinks this is a good idea when you have insurance for exactly this reason.
Because the insurance hike will total up to $3-4 thousand more money out of my pocket over the next 3 years. He didn’t file the insurance claim at the scene either so how is he not any guilty as i am?
I paid him because he asked for money. I paid him because i have the money to blow and really don’t give two shits about paying to get out of the situation and to go home. He doesn’t even know my name. Doesn’t know anything about me.
No, he doesn't have to hurt himself -- he can claim he was hurt during the accident. And such injuries are notoriously hard to disprove, as they don't show up on x-rays and MRIs.
Now that i think about it, my back is hurting! 🥸 Seems like a huge waste of time for a man who has a wife and family. Man’s gonna purposely hurt him self to pay off his own medical bills? Man’s gonna go rack up a bill getting work done on him just so he can get money from me to pay his own bills that he made up on his own? The damage to the guys truck was nothing literally it wouldn’t hold up in court. Did the estimate today, his big ass metal front bumper bar that is made for collisions was $850 and the labor was $300. The car has no Park distance sensors on the bumper either.
If I was in front of him, and he has the damage to the front of his vehicle and mine is in the rear of my vehicle, is he not the driver? Do we not drive forward on public roads? He’s just as responsible and with the damage being how it is and the directions it was done in.
All i know is he was behind me, and i was in front, and i have a witness, and i have video proof of it all. He rammed my quarter panel. I have all the damage. He doesn’t.
Then why on earth would you pay him? All he has to say is "he slammed on his brakes suddenly" and now it's your fault, which is supported by the fact that you paid him. But whatever, you do you.
You know, I've given you the best advice I could here and did so sincerely. I don't need your sarcasm in return, and I'm not here to bicker with you.
Asks for advice and refuses to take it. I'm kinda not shocked that OP has found an easy way to worsen a bad situation. I don't get how someone hit him and he then turned around and payed that person.
He suggested that we could just pay for the damage outside of insurance…. Don’t know what to tell you man live and learn I guess… guess i should get to work on finding a lawyer for pain and suffering and getting my money back….
Assuming you're insured, the money would be from your insurance and he would also seek additional money for pain and suffering. This happens all the time. It's why you're not supposed to accept liability on your own, you're supposed to report such accidents to your insurance and let them handle it from there. Especially if he hit you as you claim.
Whatever man. I’m a grown man just like this guy is as well. If he’s gonna sue me one day don’t you worry I’ll be sueing right back for double the money since he hit me and wouldn’t give me his insurance information 👍.
I’m talking with this guy since the day of the accident.. they have been reassuring me not to worry about anything.. don’t know what to say my guy. I made a video of the incident as it unfolded and the guy agreed that the money i am paying would settle the damage even though he hit me. I just didn’t want this on my insurance record, and at the same time that would be an absolute lie of a lawsuit and I would have no problem winning the lawsuit considering the dent on my car is the size of 3 dodgeballs and the dent on his truck is the size of a hat. So your saying technically i could go ahead and sue him right now and claim he hurt me and owes me money? What would he owe me money for? I don’t have any doctors bills showing that i got an injury from a car accident. Sounds like a bunch of BS.