I say it again - this is to be expected a lot more now. Because this ultra far right govt will fuck shit up now and stir things up. Hardliners will now be emboldened more than ever. The Two state solution discussion is now dead for good and things will be bad for next few years for the region, esp. for Palestinians. These incidents are just a start.
The two state solution has been dead for well over a decade now. The Palestinian side does not want to co-exist with a Jewish State next to it and has refused multiple peace offerings that could lead to one.
don't forget the L.G.B.T.Q+, immigrants, Ethiopians and Russians (their Judaism is questioned by the religious hierarchy). there will be more victims to this government beside just Palestinians.
And let’s also not forget that there are both Jews living in Palestinian Territories that will be hurt as well as Palestinians who live in Israeli territory that will be hurt. This hurts everyone, even the people who don’t think they will be hurt by this will be hurt. It will have a negative effect on everyone in the region.
What you are seeing is the populace reacting to the paradox of tolerance. The "right wing" in Israel is the natural answer to that paradox because it will not be destroyed by its own tolerance.
you are correct but that didn't stop the hierarchy of the orthodox religious elite who are not affiliated with the government to declare them as fake jews just like the russians.
you will be surprized to know how many jewish people came from russia to israel only to have their Judaism (the reason they chose israel over any other place) be revoked from them by a council of old rabbis who think they can claim who is jewish and who isn't jewish enough.
When Jordan invaded and occupied the West Bank and East Jerusalem in 1948 the Jews there were expelled or murdered and their property was given away to Arab settlers. To advocate for the removal of the Jews from the West Bank is to advocate for the continuation of the ethnic cleansing of Jews from the West Bank.
Every settlement is different and most of them are on land that no one previously inhabited. Your implication that all the settlements are on land that "Palestinians" inhabited is a lie. You might believe the lie or you might not care but it is a lie.
This is a false equivalence. South Africans of color were never treated or offered the opportunity to be equals in any way shape or form. It was a State policy of oppression based on race. There is no State policy of oppression based on race, religion or ethnicity in Israel or the West Bank.
Like I said each case is different and their is a judicial system in place to deal with legitimate claims of ownership over land. If land is found to be owned by Palestinians where a settlement is then the settlement is deemed illegal and the settlers are forced to leave. Same goes for Israelis/Jews who can prove that Palestinians are living on their land. A small percentage of the land was held by individuals with title and the majority of it was owned by no one because no one wanted to live there until Israel was created.
Per the Oslo Accords Israel has full control and administration over Area C of the West bank where all of the settlements are. The Palestinians agreed to the Oslo Accords. The Palestinians also have settlements in Area C. Israelis/Jews have no settlements in Area A or B that the Palestinians control. This is one sided and shows that Palestinian intent to cleanse the land(all of it) of Jews. You can support that if you want but I wouldn't.
No Israel has not been doing this. It does not have a policy of doing this. Individuals and groups have been settling the land. Israel has not been "violently seizing land". Any violence in recent history has been a response by Palestinians or Settlers to their lawful eviction by Israel.
You claim that Israel is expanding when it isn't which shows that you do not understand the history and nuance involved here over time or are choosing to ignore it.
If you want to be angry about something to do with refugee camps then be angry with the Palestinians who have refused to work towards peace and a two State solution where they could offer those refugees a right to return to a Palestinian State.
This implies that all of the land was owned by "Palestinians" and this couldn't be further from the truth. This is one of the biggest lies perpetuated in this conflict. The implication that all of the land was owned by Palestinians also ignores the fact that Jews also owned land there and inhabited it. It is a lie built to deny Jews the right to live on the land and continue the policy of ethnic cleansing of them from the land.
France is a sovereign State and has been for centuries. "Palestine" has never been a sovereign State ever in history. It is land that has been changing hands for millennia.
You are making a whole lot of generalizations and implying that Palestinians in the modern context occupied all of the land which is not the case. Then peppering it with exoduses that happened over many years while ignoring the oppression of the Jewish side.
The Palestinian flag is used to incite anti-Israel rhetoric and violence against Israelis so why should they let it fly in public spaces? You would be killed if you tried flying an Israeli flag in Gaza or parts of the West Bank unless the flag was on fire.
This is a big fat lie. Israel is not ejecting Palestinians from homes that they legally own so that Jews can move in from foreign countries. Show me a case and we can explore the history and context.
The two are nothing alike and not comparable in any way. Russia invaded Ukraine, a sovereign country, without any justification and has been perpetuating genocide against the Ukrainian people. Russia has been indiscriminately bombing civilians, raping and mass murdering civilians and deporting Ukrainian children. Shame on you for even trying to go there.
Hah! Are you actually arguing that they don't want to cleanse the land of Jews and they wouldn't do it if given the opportunity? They have been telegraphing their intent for over a century now.
No I do not agree with this. Those refugee camps have been used as a system of attack against Israel for decades and are mostly inhabited by people that weren't even alive when the camps were created. The population of those camps are enormous for the reason stated above.
I think you mean Palestine. They are the ones who have been using their freedom to kill their youth in the pursuit of the destruction of their neighbors.
Ukraine has every reason to stamp out any form of Russian nationalism within its borders due to Russia's unjustified aggression and genocide against the Ukrainian people. Free speech has its limits.