Oh, not just that. Here in Queensland, we put minors into adult watch houses. Watch houses are like America's county jails, usually attached to a police station. We're all for locking up the little bastards, but nobody seems to care about preventing them from becoming shitty little criminals in the first place.
His user name means he understands perfectly well what denying basic human rights is. At least one of those states wanted a 10yo to deliver her rapists baby. And proceeded to go after the doctor who saved the kid, all while the abortion was legal.
The way our legal system is set up someone having a psychotic break can be detained and "treated" against their will.
Australians don’t really get to take the high ground about detaining children away from their families, or maybe you didn’t cover the stolen generation at Aussie school.
Each state has slightly different legislation to give hospitals the power to do this, but all of them have complicated questions of human rights attached to them.
It significantly expands the definition of torture to a range of institutions that never considered that it may apply to them. For example psychiatric wards.
The states are having a hard time squaring what they perceive as their duty of care to people suffering acute psychological symptoms with a comprehensive human rights framework.
There are tonnes of factors that go into this but the biggest one in my opinion is that there aren't enough staff available to deliver treatment in a way that is consistent with a patients human rights.
The staffing issue is caused by years of government trying to minimise the cost of running hospitals instead of funding them to healthy levels. Similar to the situation in the UK.
So... as to whether people are being tortured in these institutions? That kind of depends on how you view the expanded definition. A decent number of people who work in the field have dissenting views on this, because they believe that (in some cases) its necessary to restrict someone's choices to keep them and the general public safe.
Personally I think that the conditions in these facilities are pretty bad. I think that some of the treatment options are basically torture if they are done without a patients consent, and the UN seems to agree. I'm sure that a full inspection of all the places where people are detained in Australia would show an appalling number of vulnerable people who have been subjected to inhumane conditions.
Then there is just the fact that someone thinks it's OK to tell adults that they aren't allowed to have a perfectly legal product if they want treatment for any other issues.
But at the end of the day most of the time it comes down to a pretty subjective call from a clinician.
Subjecting people to ECT against the explicit wishes in an advanced care directive isn't necessary.
Refusing patients their legal rights to uphold a paternalistic and ineffective model of treatment isn't necessary.
Taking away a coping mechanism (even a dysfunctional one) from someone having a mental health crisis is questionable in terms of clinical recovery.
First there is the chemical dependence, which a nicotine replacement therapy only addresses one of the multiple addictive substances in cigarettes.
But as you point out, state owned properties are forbidden from allowing smoking anywhere near the buildings.
There are very clear and sensible reasons that the department of health takes a no smoking position.
It forces them to detox and rehab from multiple substances at once. Which is a known source of complications.