It is neutral, yes. It’s one of those texts that is strictly academic. I can’t think of a single instance where I would say he was proselyting and as the books are primarily focused on the development of the Old Testament faith he never really addresses Jesus or salvation or anything like that. It’s purely an academic look at these texts, deities and histories.
Mark S Smith seems to be the current leader on academic books in this particular subject area. The three most important ones are “The Early History of God: Yahweh and the Other Deities in Anxient Israel”, “How Human Is God?” and “ The Origins of Biblical Monotheism: Israel's Polytheistic Background and the Ugaritic Texts”.
These place the development of Judaism in the historical context of the Canaanite and Ugaritic pantheons that preceded them as well as showing the archaeological, linguistic and sociological evidence for their histories. The third of the three texts mentioned also quotes the older religious texts and examines the narratives in them to show how and where they influenced aspects of the Old Testament.
As a writing sample, to illustrate its writing style, here is the first page of the first chapter of Early History of God.
“Early Israelite culture cannot be separated easily from the culture of “Canaan.” The highlands of Israel in the Iron Age (ca. 1200-587) reflect continuity with the “Canaanite” (or better, West Semitic) culture during the preceding period both in the highlands and in the contemporary cities on the coast and in the valleys. This continuity is reflected in scripts, for one example. Both linear and cuneiform alphabetic scripts are attested in inscriptions in the highlands as well as in the valleys and on the coast during both the Late Bronze (ca. 1550-1200) and Iron I (ca. 1200-1000) periods. This continuity is visible also in language. Though Hebrew and Canaanite are the linguistic labels applied to the languages of the two periods in this region, they cannot be easily distinguished in the Iron I period. For example, most scholars argue that the Gezer Calendar was written in Hebrew, but E. Y Kutscher labels its language Canaanite. Canaanite and Hebrew so closely overlap that the ability to distinguish them is premised more on historical information than linguistic criteria. The ancient awareness of the close linguistic relationship, if not identity, between Canaanite and Hebrew is reflected in the postexilic oracle of Isaiah 19:18, which includes Hebrew in the designation “the language of Canaan” (śěpat kěna’an; cf yěhûdît, “Judean,” in 2 Kings 18:26, 28; Isa. 36:11, 13; 2 Chron. 32:18; Neh. 13:24).).
Thank you so much. As somebody who hasn't gone to college (yet), reading academic literature is new to me. The closest thing to this I read was Germania by tacitus, and that was what partially got me into learning about ancient ways of life, as well as KnowingBetter's youtube video on Angels and Demons.
The pages are covered in annotations for sources and further notes but I’ve taken them out for this copy just to show you how the main text is written.