That is excellent. I'm wondering why pigs were apparently one or two thousands of years behind cattle in moving to the Bosphorus region, despite both species being evidently domesticated at the same time for most of Anatolia. Would that be cultural/religious, or simply a lack of archaeological evidence (or issue with data, eg. pig bones crumble in archaeologist records or something)?
I think you might be referring to the central region, not the Bosphorus. The map shows the bigger difference (1,900 years) in central Anatolia, while the difference between cattle and pigs is less (700 years) at the Bosphorus.
It's possible that the difference is simply an archaeological artifact (perhaps due to the scarcity of samples or poor preservation in some regions), but there can be other explanations too.
The map only talks about domesticated pig/cattle bones. Remember, the progenitor species for both (auroch and wild hogs) were widespread across the entire region, and they were also butchered and eaten by people in the area. So the archaeological sites contain a mix of bones from both domesticated and wild forms of the same animal, and the problem is to look for differences which indicate domestication. These differences might be large today after 10,000 years of selective breeding, but they were small at the beginnings of domestication.
The early landscape of domestication looks very different from today. Your domesticated herd of cows and pigs was small in number, it was an island surrounded by a large sea of auroch and wild hogs, which can and did breed with your herd and kept re-introducing wild genes back into the herd. Continuing active selection on part of humans kept winnowing down undesirable traits that introgressed, and over time the wild populations were reduced in number and the desirable genes became more fixed in the domesticated herd. But all of this took time.
Right. Pigs, cattle, sheep and goats were all domesticated at roughly the same time (the O/C in the map I previously posted refers to sheep and goats by the way: Ovis aries and Capra hirtec).
This introduces a lot of extra variables, not the least is of which were the animal husbandry techniques used by humans. Auroch were a somewhat migratory species - they didn't have a huge range like wildebeest or the bison, but they did have very definite seasonal movements. For this reason, part of domestication must have included keeping them penned up in corrals so they didn't migrate away. Of course, corrals also serve as a barrier to mixing between the herd and wild auroch nearby, which reduces the introduction of wild traits back into the herd.
Pigs, on the other hand, are not migratory. Wild hogs will stay in an area year round so long as food and water are available. They may actually have preferred human company, much like dogs, they are attracted to the refuse and food scraps generated by humans. Perhaps there was a lesser need for robust pig pens, which allowed more interbreeding with wild hog populations. In other words, the pig island didn't have as deep a moat around it as the cattle island.
This can account for differences in the dates you see on the map. It's not that archaeologists aren't finding pig bones, it's just that it's harder to tell the older bones apart, to decide if they're from domesticated pigs or from wild hogs, and consequently it takes a bit longer for the domesticated traits to become fixed to a degree that archaeologists can unambiguously identify them.
I don't know the answer, but perhaps it had to do with human occupation of this region rather than with the animals themselves. This is the central Anatolian plateau, and historically it had lower human populations than the coasts. Perhaps the early pastoralists who arrived were sheep herders, while cattle farmers arrived later. Someone who knows Turkish prehistory could answer this question, unfortunately, I don't know much about it.
I think this might explain at least small discrepancies in the dates you see on the map. But you are right, there is a much larger discrepancy in the central region - a thousand years between sheep/goats and cows, almost two thousand years between cows and pigs. Something else could have been at play here.
The world is getting smarter. We're able to get more food out of our animals due to better agricultural processes (better diets and better preventative medical care). Chickens take the cake though.
As a matter of fact, pigs are notorious for this even to modern times. While pigs were introduced to Europe from the near east as the map shows, if you look at modern pig populations in Europe, they barely have a trace of that near east ancestry left. Over the last few thousand years, wild hogs have kept on breeding so prolifically with domesticated pigs in Europe that almost the entire European pig genome has been replaced from its near eastern roots to European wild hogs.
This works because domestication is a continuing process. In each generation farmers continue to breed for more pig-like and less wild hog- like traits, so you can gradually replace large parts of the genome without noticing much of a change from generation to generation.
I'm focusing on chickens in this comment because they are the easiest to address and are a relatively recent popular species.
If we look at the domestication process in general, we find some useful general information on the subject:
Everything about the animals we domesticate has something to do with ease of raising them; whether that is the actual managing of animals or the resources necessary (water/food).
There was an interesting relatively recent study on domesticating foxes that goes over it. and . I believe there is a documentary or natural geographic type episode on the study that I am not finding at the moment.
Now to chickens specifically: on the amount of meat we (the world) eat and the relative change over the years. During their time frame of 1990-2012, we've had roughly a 33% growth in the world population while most livestock only increased by 13-20% with the exception of poultry. Chicken specifically has grown in popularity in the last couple decades with their headcount growing by 104%. We're seen a relative decline in the number of livestock to the population except in poultry.
Chickens have a special trait compared to the other domesticated animals. A key metric in evolution and domestication is the generation rate; what is the time from an organism being "created" to the time it will create another organism. They breed often and grow quickly. This short generation time allowed for them to adapt quickly, changing their fat/protein composition to meet public demand, all while decreasing the cost. It is also an key trait for simply producing enough chickens to keep up with demand.
E. coli, a well known problematic bacteria, has a generation time of 15-20 minutes in a lab and 12-24 hours in the wild. That is why it is problematic: because it almost doubles in count every 12 hours. Chickens have a generation time of 23-28 weeks. This is very short in the animal kingdom. Thus, we can get 2 generations of chickens in a year. Based on the fox domestication study, it takes somewhere around 10 generations to domesticate an animal, and likely somewhere around there to get a new breed. It only takes 5 years for chickens to create a new breed or complete a drastic change.
Chickens were not always the standard poultry; it is only in the last century or so that they became more popular. The originated somewhere in southeast Asia and spread across the world from there. They were already known and available, then the world kicked it up a notch with factory farming drastically increasing the amount of chickens we can produce.
There was also another important trend: there was a push against saturated fat, specifically in the US, starting sometime in the 1970s. has a decent 5 minute conversation on it. Pork and beef is somewhere around 5-6% saturated fat, skinless chicken breast is 1% saturated fat. Chickens weren't always the low-fat animal they are now; that short generation time allowed them to adapt quickly to the change in market tastes.
Non-poultry animals generally require more feed and resources while reproducing less frequently and slower.
Currently, there is no other livestock that can as easily breed year round and provide as much meat with as little resources.
TLDR: Chickens only became the dominate, or staple, meat source in the last 100 years where feeding more people on less resources came into play. They rose in popularity due to better growth stats and adaptability.
we have some interesting results. In the last hundred years or so, we've seen a decrease in time to market by 58%, 150% growth in slaughter weight, 2.5x improvement in the feed efficiency (an important agricultural stat measuring how much feed it takes to gain 1 unit of weight), and a 72% drop in mortality rate. Our chickens are growing larger, faster, on less resources, and are dying less (well, if you ignore the fact we slaughter almost all of them).
Turkeys are native to the Americas, so most of the world didn't know about them until the last few hundred years. Turkeys also have a slower growth rate and produce drastically fewer offspring than chickens.
Edit 2: It does a better job discussing this from the true historical point of view (covering the last 100 years) rather than the biological focus that I had. Tagging /u/caverunner17.