In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
If the railroad companies are incapable of managing themselves, they must be nationalized, if not as a matter of doing the right thing, then as a matter of national security.
With so much reliant on rail transportation, we cannot sit by while private companies fail to act in the nation's interest and harm others through their mismanagement.
You should, particularly since a healthy population is a matter of national security too. The COVID pandemic floored us and left us vulnerable.
M4A or a public option obviously wouldn't have stopped the pandemic, but it might've reduced the death toll by reducing the reluctance of people to seek treatment or made them healthier before the pandemic hit.
Approvals and denials are processed by algorithms designed by data scientists and written by engineers, friend. Unless/until you appeal or inquire; it is all bots. Healthcare IT is its own ecosystem. You're paying for all the people but the joke's on you -- the people are coders and the system is automated.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
My dad was recently cut off of Medicare coverage. Speaking from experience, what you have said here is not true. The denial process was initiated by a business administrator from his care facility and was a letter sent via mail.
While you are not wrong that this is how things were done in the past, I can personally assure you that legions of programmers and scientists are working on automating health insurance as we speak. Stevens Point, Wisconsin is one of the hubs for this work.