I am a secondary school history teacher, so I hope I am qualified to answer this question to some extent.
Using Sources is the way to do this in my books. I apply the context of the time and then the students analyse and dissect Sources that I present. For example, when discussing slavery in the southern United States, we might look at a series of Sources that show the brutality of life on southern plantations (the 'Whipped Peter' photograph with some context is one that really piques their interest). However, I also include this Source below:
Extract from Cannibals All! Written by George Fitzhugh, 1857.Context: Fitzhugh was a white southern sociologist who often argued that slaves were like children who needed protection and guidance. He was a vocal supporter of slavery throughout the mid-19th Century.
We then break down the Source and discuss why the author holds such views that seem so counter to the other Sources that we have seen from the same era. Depending on the students and the class, some handholding is needed and often I need to add guided questions to help students really think about why the author is saying or doing certain things. This allows them to understand that slave owners had reasons for their decisions, even if they may now (and even at the time) seem repugnant.
The reality is that regardless of how 'neutral' I am in the classroom, I'm the one that has made the lesson in the first place and have crafted the tasks and worksheets to achieve the learning outcomes I want from them. There is no neutral lessons in that sense. In the classroom, however, I present the information and allow them to come to their own conclusions - usually with some guidance or questions that might get them to think deeper about those conclusions. There are also moments when I have to explicitly say that this specific view is not acceptable anymore.
I am based in the UK and, to my knowledge, have never been subject to these mandates. I wouldn't know where to begin to answer your question, I'm afraid.
I don't face those restrictions under state law but do face them under community pressure. My approach is mostly to take the L as it were by not addressing them in either my scope & sequence or my curriculum but if a student brings it up in class then I will engage with it as openly & objectively as possible. If I were in a state with legal restrictions on topics that might not keep me out of hot water but so far at least it has in the community.
I would second Whilst Rome Burns post and tell any of my fellow history teachers that this is where Primary Sources really are your friends. Using the descriptions of those harder events from both victims & perpetrators allows one to hold to the principal of giving equal time to both sides while also not shying away from the truth of what happened.