Your roommate cannot make her theft into a purchase just by sending you money: a transaction requires consent on both sides. If you don't agree to sell the cat, she cannot take it from you and make it a purchase instead of theft simply by shoving money at you. However, if you accept the money, it weakens your case: she then has the argument that you've agreed to the transaction by taking the money. Leave the money sitting where it is.
Ask them if they know what a court judgement against them for stealing i kitten will look like. Social pressure may win this one out. A hard think about their future may do it. Have a conversation with them, it's free.
Go in to the police tomorrow and see what the officer you talk to says. If they won't treat it as theft, ask if you can talk to the sergeant or other supervisor on duty and see if they say the same thing. Politely moving up a level or two might get you different results if the first police officer you talk to isn't willing to help.
If no one at the police department will help, you'll need to go to small claims court. I'd get a written statement from your coworker just to be sure.
Your roommate should be reminded of something very, Very important. Is they intent to practice law in the courts, they have to pass the bar exam and ethics committee. ETHICS. Are they of the standard and calibur to uphold the laws and protect people in court, to represent others and conduct themselves beyond question.
Regardless if you think they will have an advantage in court, casting that shadow upon their character in a court they may want to practice one day, won't go well in front of that judge. You've lost a kitten, going to court you have a kitten to gain back and little if nothing to lose. But they have their entire future in practice at stake over it, are they willing to risk it, how much does it cost for their college tuitions. Do they want to be something like "The kitten burglar" before their career even starts. What if the college was tipped off, what if the ethics committee was, what if the bar association was, what are the consequences of this theft for them long term practicing.
At least in my state, the character and fitness inquiry forms asks all applicants if they have ever been a party to a lawsuit. She would have to put this down. Sued to return a stolen kitten - not a good look!
I am willing to return the money if she gives back my kitten's food and litterbox back as well as my kitten, otherwise if I just get my kitten back I might need to use it to continue to take care of her. According to venmo's terms of service she can't take the money back without my permission because she didn't label it as a purchase in the app. I'm just leaving it in the app for now until things can be resolved.
Of course … she could always return the kitten she stole. Then nobody has to threaten anyone’s career. I’m sure the local animal shelter would be happy to give her another kitten. Just a humble suggestion.
No. That special trick will NOT beat a criminal theft charge. Also, if there is a way to refuse receipt of her money, you should. If the police do not make her return the kitten, file suit in civil court, and specifically ask for return of the kitten as relief.
When I told her I was going to file against her she said I was selfish and a terrible person for threatening someone's career over a kitten, but maybe she should've thought of that before stealing someone's pet.
Don’t be intimidated by the fact that your roommate is a law student. Your roommate should know that the bar association conducts a lenhy inquiry into an applicants character. In my state, one of the questions ask you if you have ever been a party to a lawsuit. Having to put down that they were a defendant in a suit to return property that wasn’t theirs is not a good look.
Yeah technically she's extorting me because she's saying she won't give my kitten back unless I give her back the money she sent and she's not even going to return the other stuff she's stolen but like at this point I don't particularly care. I don't want the money if it means getting my cat returned and I can buy more care supplies.
I do have all the receipts for the items I purchased for the kitten, so that part shouldn't be a problem. I also have a lot of friends and family members who would be willing to go to court with me to prove my ownership of the cat, so that would definitely help if I end up having to go through small claims. Unfortunately, since she adopted a kitten from the same litter as mine on a whim after I had adopted mine and purchased all the necessary supplies, we took the kittens in together to get their first vaccinations and the vet put us in together as owners so they could be seen at the same time. I'm really regretting that now but I thought we were friends and I had no reason to think she would steal my kitten from me. I tried calling my vet but they said they would have to ask my roommate permission to separate the files, which she would definitely not agree to.
Oh she already admitted in text that she took my cat, I'm not sure why the first officers I spoke with didn't take that into consideration when they she suddenly started claiming we "shared" my cat after they told her she needed to bring my cat back or be listed as a suspect for grand theft. Literally I have in my text history where I said "You can't take my cat!" And she responded with "Actually I can and I did.".
Just to clarify, I reported my kitten stolen the same day she was taken. It took two days for officers to come by to take my statement on the matter, they called my former roommate and talked to her for a little bit where she admitted that she took my cat. The officers then gave her the option of either bringing my cat back or being listed as a suspect for grand theft. She asked if she could call them back because she needed to get a ride to drop my kitten off, but then when she called them back she started claiming that we shared the cat. Not sure why they just took her word on it after all that but then they just let her go from the call and told me it was a civil matter and that I would have to sue. So the next day at work I told the person I adopted the kitten from about the situation and she gave me her contact info and agreed to give a statement if needed, and with that I'm going down to the station tomorrow when it opens to see if that will change anything before I try to fight my former roommate in court. Tomorrow will mark 6 days since my kitten was taken.