One very important thing to keep in mind is that nowadays, we expect governments to have definite and internationally recognized borders, separate and well-defined of powers within a government, and a clear separation between church and state. But all of these concepts would not have been clear to medieval theologians or to medieval political thinkers. The political history of the middle ages is very much the history of normalization and codification of power.
Monarchies, aristocrats, cities, and religious institutions all existed in a space where powers interacted and overlapped. The Papacy certainly held that its authority anointed monarchs, but monarchs naturally had a different take on things (unless, of course, they could needed a Papal coronation to legitimize themselves). Bishops which theoretically represented the church in its various dioceses could be highly politicized figures performing a number of local government duties (and were often chosen from the local urban aristocracy). The Roman aristocracy used the Papacy's legitimacy to assert their authority over cities in Central Italy (and the Papacy was more than happy to humor them) but they could not extend this authority over the large mercantile cities of Tuscany, and had a complicated relationship with the Kings in Sicily and (later) Naples.
I wrote an answer on how the Papal States came to be , which gives a lot more color on the topic. In that answer, I recount how the Papal States, while on the surface a unique theocracy, in reality represent a possible and objectively predictable path in state building: for various reasons, in the city of Rome the local bishop (the Pope) swelled in power while the the senate-council apparatus waned, instead of the other way 'round as happened in the cities of the rest of Europe. This coupled with the fact that in Italy's political development there emerged no central monarchial figure superimposed upon the urban Bishops which, in the Roman fashion, acted as joint civil and secular leaders in their communities (perhaps in part because of the presence of such an authoritative and central "Pope" figure in Rome) created a space for there to be a "Papal State," and also allowed the Bishop of Rome to ultimately appropriate authority over an institution that could very much be envisioned as the last remaining institution of the Roman Empire (or at least, that’s how the medieval Church liked to imagine itself operating: a hierarchical network of spiritual leaders bestowing legitimization over rulers and institutions, much as the various proconsuls has done in the time of the ancient Empire; with the reality, as is often the case, being much more nuanced).
That protector would be the Holy Roman Emperor - the first one being Charlemagne, or Charles I. Wilson offers an explanation of this "title" roughly as follows (I'm summarizing here): "Holy" because the emperor was seen as the secular/temporal protector of Christendom; "Roman" because Charlemagne had conquered a ton of territory that was formerly the Western Roman Empire; and an "Emperor" because the "mode" or "style" of rule was more "empire-like" than monolithically monarchical, with constituent territories under the rule of the Emperor allowed to maintain a degree of their own autonomy while on the "periphery," provided they obeyed the "center" when instructed to. (I am not doing justice to Wilson's account here, which is nuanced and good, and difficult to concisely summarize.).
Note this is quite old, though, in 391 - before what the "Papal States" later came to be. But it sets the stage for the later development of the idea that the Church sees itself principally not as a temporal power, but as a parallel, spiritual power.