Sounds like what you are being billed for is a regular part of the divorce/custody process. If you cannot pay the attorney fees, you are welcome to end your relationship with your attorney and attempt to navigate the legal process on your own (which would be, frankly, a very unwise decision).
Is there any way to prevent ex-souse from using his attorney as a financial weapon contacting my attorney who then bills me monthly for time as I wait for a court date?
Also, once in front of a judge is there any negative consequences of making it clear to the judge that if a legal decision is not made at that time I would be forced to drop the case as I cannot afford to continue? I honestly think the cost of a court appearance will just about break me financially.
You are attempting to frame it that way, but again, sounds like the attorneys are doing their job as it relates to a divorce/custody case.
You are welcome to tell the judge that you are not financially able to continue to pay an attorney, but if the case is moving along at the standard pace, a judge may see no reason to tell the attorneys to speed up the process.
I suppose it sounds as if I am framing it that way but there are additional factors that have not been shared because there is little or no legal recourse.
A little history, ex-souse and I had a business together and in the divorce ex bought me out and the business was legally bound to pay me $2k per month for several years but stopped paying about 8 months ago and since then has nearly bankrupt the business so it is not worth the cost of litigation for judgment in my favor. Due to the $2k monthly non-payment, I have repeatedly made it clear to ex that I am struggling financially in an effort to get any financial support for daughter which is why I am attempting to get child support. I have exhausted my savings and am now in the process of exhausting my retirement fund in legal costs.
Just got an email from my attorney. Ex-spouses attorney filed a dismissal a few months ago and the hearing is Tuesday so my attorney indicated he should attend that hearing. That will be a costly exercise that will hopefully result in a court date in the future.
Fair enough. Thanks for the clarification. At this point, the immediate way you can limit costs is simply to speak to your attorney and figure out if there is a more limited level of representation they can offer. That may mean you do some of the work yourself, but I'm unsure of the logistics.