NAL - Pull out your closing package for the property and find the Seller's disclosure form. Here is a blank copy.
If it wasn't clear in my OP, the people who flipped the house never lived in. The history of the house goes:
There are several item to look at, specifically the table items 1H, 4c, 8a, 8b, 8c, 8e, 8f, 8i, 9a. A statement by the previous prior owners, will help. Time to go see a real estate attorney. You should be able to charge them for the digging up and hauling away all the debris along with legal expenses.
My understanding - which could be wrong - is that since the previous owners never lived in the house/weren't tenants, they can't/don't have to disclose anything about it.
Is there any way to prove who's responsible for the debris buried in the yard? I feel like the obvious counter argument to this is "wasn't me, and you can't prove it was me".
I would suggest stop asking - what if, and start pursuing actual facts. Open your closing package and ....
Did the sellers fill out a seller's disclosure form? If so, check the items identified above and see what information was provided. If not, why not - in that since you indicated the wife is a realtor (license) and should have known. I did a quick search and did not see any exemption for flippers or not living in the property. When you sell rental property, you need to provide a seller's disclosure. If you are a builder and sell a new property in a subdivision you still need to provide a seller's disclosure. There are both state and federal disclosure regulations. ----.
Both the sellers have skin in the game. You indicated that the wife's a realtor, husband's a contractor - they have licenses, and also associations. The realtor's association will not like a realtor or real estate agent not compiling with laws and regulations. Husband probably has a state builders/contractors license at stake. You need to use those levers and knobs to extract compliance from them.
As /u/whiskey_tango_58 posted - if you do not get compliance out of them, then the onus is on you, for the cleanup since you now know. It's either your checkbook or their checkbook - you pay or they pay. That is a pretty stark binary decision for you to make. Should be a pretty easy decision, as you now have no real choice.
You do not have to "live in the property", to know about the property, especially if you are rebuilding/remodeling a property. You as a flipper acquire a lot of knowledge about the property, that most folks who live in a property would never have - especially the problems that the flippers create. They just tried to make their problem - your problem. They dropped the soap in the shower. You would have to be extremely naive to bend over and pick it up.
I would not get hung up with the "how to prove". Your lawyer will do this - it's their job and not that difficult. Lots of ways to handle that.