Oh he just cycles through tenants, he doesn’t care at all, he’s just as bad as the people he rents too unfortunately. The neighbor across the street has had 3 different tenants evicted already. Thank you I figured as much I just need some advice.
Sure they can. But right now, the landlord has no incentive to do anything as long as the tenants are paying rent. You need to give the landlord a reason to intervene.
Hire a lawyer to send a letter notifying the property owner that his tenants are creating a nuisance and impairing your use of your property and that if they don't stop you will sue the landlord for nuisance.
Once this landlord realizes that keeping these tenants may cost him more money in legal fees/judgments than they pay in rent, he's more likely to take any action he legally can to get rid of the tenants, and then if he gets rid of them you can drop your lawsuit, if you want.
Well considering we’re 4 gay guys living together (I rent my spare rooms to friends and live with my partner) and his tenants didn’t even skip a beat calling us all sorts of homophobic slurs that night, it’s starting to get into the hate crime area. I did email him (I’m no longer calling for documentation) but I don’t expect anything back. It’s just frustrating, I’m really starting to take it personally. I have the video of this tenant pissing on my roommates car. Yes this dude peed on my roommates car.
We have nothing pride related hanging up or really anything to identify us as gay you know? I mean these people moved in not even 2 weeks ago. It’s really disturbing to me, it started with me asking them to be quiet it was close to midnight and I had to work at 4am. The police were already by 3-4 times before I even spoke up or called the police back. We were told to mind our business, bunch of nosy faggots, fag this faggot that, I mean about a good 20 minutes of this. The kept trying to get us off my property to physically fight us. My roommates car was parked in the street it’s the only thing they could get to without me legally defending myself. We were all kind of wondering how they knew. I’m a private person as are my roommates. It’s just a very disturbing situation to me. I mean we’ve dealt with drug dealers, users, vicious dogs, trash thrown in our yard…just well trashy people this the 4th tenant I’ve personally dealt with since living here. But the first time I’ve ever ever dealt with that level of harassment. How they didn’t get arrested is beyond me.