The point of the earnest money deposit is that it's very hard for courts to quantify the amount of financial damage a seller potentially suffers when a buyer pulls out of a contract after a certain point in the process.
Obligatory IANAL, but I would think that whatever the required earnest money amount you had to put up as a surety of your commitment is a very good starting point for what you should be able to ask/receive for due to the seller's choice to back out of the contract. Had it been you instead of them, your earnest money would have been forfeited. I don't see why the same shouldn't apply to the seller.
I understand your logic but it seems fairly harsh and don't know if court would agree to that. (IANAL too).
Look around and see what similar homes are now listed for. Is there a comperable home in the area you can offer for? How much more than the home you have under contract will that cost you? That, plus the money you actually spent for inspection, appraisal, etc, is what you are out if they refuse to close.
Speak with the lawyer about whether you can place a lien on the home while you work through the process of litigation. In some places, you can do so.
I think it is a valid starting off point for negotiation of settlement. The housing market is on an upswing. How much have prices on average gone up since you agreed to go under contract with them? What about the existence of other comparable homes in that area/neighborhood where there were several on the market before but now there aren't any?
I am thinking that seller wants to back out and relist but my spouse don't have the mental will strenh to deal with legal process and time.
We know that the option is available but my spouse doesn't want to takes months for the case to settle through court.
We ask to compensate that equals to the earnest money as other 2 suggested before we decide to forcefully exercise the contract.
I would really like to consider specific performance as an option considering that the seller counter offered mere 3k as money damage in this current housing market.