Leon Trotsky was in the bad books of the Soviet bureaucracy throughout most, if not all, of its existence, and was one of the only Marxists murdered by the Stalinist regime who was never rehabilitated by the Soviet government. This is primarily down to the fact that rather than simply being an opponent of Stalin - a serious crime all on its own in the Stalin-era - he was one of the first Marxists to put forward a systemic critique of the Soviet Union which he helped to create. And his was certainly the most prominent of those critiques.
Even in the most liberal periods of the USSR, in the late 1980s, Trotsky was viewed by most as a de facto traitor, or at best a political hack and wannabe dictator. Gorbachev mentioned Trotsky in an official Soviet speech for the first time in decades, in 1987 - only to denounce him and glorify Stalin as a defender of genuine Leninism. In 1988, Soviet military historians such as Dmitri Volkogonov were writing about Trotsky in the party paper, Pravda, where he argued in favour of Trotsky's positive role in the Bolshevik Revolution up until 1925 - but otherwise discussed him in harshly critical terms and rejected the idea that he should be rehabilitated. But that Trotsky and his ideas were being mentioned at all marked an incredible opening up. Had the Soviet Union went on for a number of years more, Trotsky may well have been rehabilitated - he was only formally rehabilitated by the Russian Federation in 2001. So, to answer your question, Trotsky was pretty much always viewed - officially - as a traitor, or at best a completely wrong and misguided revolutionary leader.
Most of the Marxists who were rehabilitated by the Soviet government throughout its existence were usually Marxists of the "right wing" variety, akin to Nikolai Bukharin. These Marxists were often outright supportive of the Stalinist regime but still fell victim to it, or were more critics of Stalin and the role that he and his clique personally played, but still more or less thought the structures of the Soviet Union were sound.
Trotsky, on the other hand, put forward a scathing political analysis of not just Stalin, but the entire Soviet bureaucracy, and he built an entire international movement on the basis of that very critique. By the late 1930s, he was not just lambasting Stalin as a counter-revolutionary, but putting forward the argument that the entire bureaucratic apparatus of the Soviet Union needed to be overthrown because it was systemically incapable of providing the revolutionary and socialist leadership that the USSR required. This denunciation applied just as much to Gorbachev, Brezhnev and Khrushchev as it did to Stalin.
In an unofficial sense, Trotsky's legacy of revolutionary communist opposition to the Stalinist regime was real but relatively minor. The naval mutiny of the Storozhevoy in 1975 was directly inspired by Trotsky's views on the need for a political revolution in the USSR in order to advance communism, but it was isolated due to some relatively poor planning from the mutineers. Considering how influential naval mutinies have been in kickstarting revolutionary uprisings in Russia, they might have dodged quite a large bullet in that regard.
However, one Trotsky that did get rehabilitated was Trotsky's son, Sedov (who was executed by the Stalinist regime in 1937), after Sedov's daughter (Yulia Akselrod) wrote to Gorbachev.
The direct inspiration from Trotsky is admittedly a bit of an inference on my part - I would be happy for a Sovietologist to correct me, but my understanding is that Valery Sablin (the leader of the mutiny) would have - as a somewhat senior naval officer and a reputable student of the Lenin Political Academy - had access to the off-limits literature that others did not have. The matching up of his political statements and his intentions with the ideas of Trotsky seemed to similar for me not to think there is some direct link.
Also "Battleship Potemkin", movie made by a great Soviet filmmaker, about mutiny and the Russian revolution.
Channel Four, a British public TV channel, did an excellent documentary on it which I believe can be watched if searched online called Mutiny - the true story of Red October.
The Battleship Potemkin is what Sablin showed the officers on the Storozhevoy before he told them his mutiny plan!
As for if Trotsky was a Menshevik - yes, briefly. He went with the Menshevik faction in 1903 and then left it in 1904 due to the Menshevik pursuit of alliances with bourgeois liberals and its rejection of any attempts at reunification with the Bolsheviks. Formally speaking, Trotsky spent the rest of the time up until 1917 as a "non-faction social democrat". In reality, due to his organisational work in writing for, editing and publishing numerous dissdent social-democratic publications, Trotsky clashed with Lenin regularly and was frequently aligned with the Mensheviks in doing so. In particular, when Lenin called a conference of the Russian Social-Democratic and Labour Party in 1912 in order to expel the Mensheviks and refound the organisation as the RSDLP (Bolshevik), Trotsky organised a counter-conference of more or less everyone else which denounced the action as organisationally illegal and elected a new leadership of the RSDLP - though ultimately that never went anywhere.
Once 1917 came around, Trotsky and Lenin had moved closer together on the key issue - the unfolding Russian Revolution - in which Lenin adopted Trotsky's theory of Permanent Revolution with the April Theses, and Trotsky had adopted Lenin's view on the organisation of the revolutionary party (both Lenin and Trotsky were already both part of the anti-war camp since day one, though with nuanced differences). This prompted Trotsky to lead his small group, the Mezhraiontsy, into a merger with the Bolsheviks, where the party membership immediately elected him onto the Central Committee. Lenin would later go on to say that once Trotsky had accepted that unity with the Mensheviks was no longer possible, that there was "no better Bolshevik".
Even in the whole post-Stalin period, Stalin himself was immensely popular amongst large sections of the population and within the Communist Party, often more popular than the living leaders of the Party themselves - even today, Stalin is viewed favourably by the majority of the Russian population. All the Soviet leaders had to navigate between the more conservative and more liberal elements, and Gorbachev was no different - so while in the one hand he would denounce Stalin's "excesses" as "unforgivable crimes", he would also praise the leadership of Stalin through the Great Patriotic War, his policies towards kulaks and collectivisation, and so on and so forth. Effectively, Stalin was an OK guy, but went too far to the point that his brilliant contributions are tarnished.
It was no different when it came to the struggle against "Trotskysim". Gorbachev argued that Trotsky waged "an attack on Leninism all down the line", and that the "leading nucleus of the party, headed by Joseph Stalin ... safeguarded Leninism". That Stalin could be the genuine defender of Leninism against Trotsky whilst also having committed unforgivable crimes against Socialism was a contradiction that was a circle that they did not even try to square - ultimately when it came to the Soviet bureaucracy's war against Trotskyism, expediency of the moment was always valued over political or logical consistency, which was a method that went all the way back to Stalin's struggle against Trotskyism originally. For Gorbachev, Stalin was both a massive contributor to Soviet socialism and one of its greatest criminals simultaneously. That said, he had a tendency at times to downplay the extent of the crimes of Stalinism, talking about "thousands" instead of millions, or at least hundreds of thousands, of victims.
In any case, for the Soviet bureaucracy rehabilitation of individuals was almost always a political tool. It was no mistake that the likes of Nikolai Bukharin, who in the late 20s and 30s were effectively in a more pro-market, economically liberal wing of the Communist Party, were favourites of Gorbachev and much ink was spilled over effectively reviving "Bukharinism". Trotsky, on the other hand, was a staunch lover the planned economy and the sweeping public ownership of the key economic sectors, not to mention his advocacy for worldwide communist revolution - which was all effectively in the opposite direction to where Gorbachev wanted to pull things with his effectively pro-Western and market liberalisation programme. He had no incentive to try and provide or facilitate a balanced portrayal of Trotsky and his political and theoretical legacy, and in fact had every reason not to. So if it comes down to a struggle between Stalin and Trotsky, Gorbachev knew full well that it was better for his own political ambitions for people to identify with Stalin - who, despite his totalitarian methods, was really closer to Gorbachev and all the post-Stalin leaders politically than Trotsky was.