You're trying to argue that by allowing you to claim an excemption to this law on religious grounds, that the government is attempting to establish a religion? I'm probably going to regret this, but I'm curious what your logic is on this.
Citing the GA Rules & Regs that outline the requirement I’m questioning isn’t the answer to my question.
What is your philosophical disagreement with ensuring that children see a doctor to screen for common issues that are more easily solved in early childhood?
If my religious beliefs prevented me from having my child screened for any or all of those things or from reporting the results of the screenings to the state, I could claim a religious exemption to the requirement to provide proof to the state. If I’m not part of a religion that would preclude me from having my child screened or reporting it to the state, wouldn’t that follow the same reasoning as what happened in the states (MS and AR, maybe more) where the religious vaccination requirement was challenged and found to violate the establishment clause?
Philosophically, I have no disagreement with taking measures to ensure that problems related to dental, vision, and/or hearing are detected early. However, as a well-educated individual who chooses to act with the best interest of my child in mind, I object to the idea that I must prove to the government that I am being a responsible parent when there has been no cause to believe otherwise.
I ultimately just want to know if GA can require me to prove that I have had my child seen by a medical professional.
Your pediatrician already has the forms for this. The hearing and vision test is so that they know if your child has the basic ability to function in a classroom. Can the kids see the teacher? Can the kid hear the teacher?
I don’t know. I think the same question can be asked about state-mandated vaccine requirements, and from what I understand, religious exemptions to those were struck down based on the establishment clause. I don’t understand how it could apply to one of those things and not the other because both are for the health and well-being of the child, right?
I know that this feels like the government's just getting into your business but it really is essential for your kid to go to good education. You will have tons of reasons to go to work with the school, this is not a hill to die on so early on.
I had no idea about the dental work. Your child has likely been screened for this already so call the pediatricians office and ask them.
They also now require a nutrition section (including BMI), which is also requisite for my child to receive a good education.
You’re right that is just that it feels like they’re getting into my business, and honestly, I’m going to provide the form because the school isn’t the one making the rules. It’s just something that made me wonder about whether or not they really can require such a thing. I could see how neglecting to address such areas could be part of mandatory reporting by school officials, but I don’t understand why they can require the proof in the absence of any indication of neglect.
This is actually one of their screenings for neglect. The doctor will put down the information on the form and the school will decide if something is wrong. And the last 30 years or so goals have become very invasive in parents' lives.
NAL: If the teacher suspects any signs of neglect and reports it to child protective services or the state, the state is going to do what is best in the interest of the child.