I think there may be some confusion with the concept of regnal names here. During his life, it was correct to refer to the Shōwa emperor by his personal name, Hirohito. Japanese era names are chosen upon the emperor's accession to the throne, like European regnal names, but unlike regnal names, they are only to be used to refer to the emperor after that emperor's reign ends, as u/keyilan explains That post is, in fact, a little out of date, as I'm sure u/keyilan will want to come say themself if I don't point it out: since the resignation of the previous emperor, Akihito, in 2019, he should be referred to as the Heisei emperor, and the current emperor is Naruhito, who will become the Reiwa emperor upon his own death (or abdication!). But that's another point — even though emperors are still referred to by their personal names until the end of their reign, their era names are common knowledge before that point, and are used to reckon dates since the emperor's accession. For example, 1945 was the year Shōwa 20.
This should only be the case once he has passed if I am not mistaken. Otherwise he's Emperor Emeritus Akihito until then.
From what I understand, during a particular Emperor's reign--in Japanese--he would be mostly referred to as "the Emperor" rather than by their name. Would that be accurate?
Anyway, it'll be interesting to see what Western accounts do with calling him Heisei at any point. I can imagine a handful of people making the switch, a handful of people not bothering, and a bunch of people getting caught up on the name as they do with calling Farsi "Persian" or Burma "Myanmar", both of which are still argued about incorrectly online.
I don't mean to knock your question, though — I think there's definitely an interesting answer to be written about how western media portrayed the Shōwa emperor during the war, but I am not qualified to write it and my reddit search skills are failing me a little at the moment.
You're right again, and this just goes to show the dangers of commenting on something that's not your flair, even to link an older answer. Thanks for the correction. It's just such a strange situation — I don't believe an emperor has ever abdicated before, right?