You're generally right in your assessment that the Japanese got a fairly good deal out of the Washinon Naval Conference. It set artificial limits on what they could expect to fight with respect to their most likely adversary - the United States Navy - both in terms of quantity and quality, and the prohibition on fortifying bases in the Pacific clearly favored the Japanese more than the other signatories.
Perhaps just as importantly, it forced limits on the IJN's expansion that prevented them from building beyond the limits of what their economy could support. For example, while the Japanese were spending about 20% of their GDP on military spending by 1938, the US, up until entering WW2, was running closer to 1.5 to 2%.
Japanese naval leadership, keeping this in mind, were aggressive in their outlook and rightfully so felt that the Washinon Naval Conference undermined their entire strategic vision. They would feed off of a jingoistic domestic media apparatus that would be the staple of Japan's long leadup to war, and, while calmer parties within the Japanese government (and even the Navy itself) would recognize that the Conference was a blessing for Japan's economy, jingoism would make it easy to spin this as another thing to add to the decades-long list of (valid) slights to Japan's honor done by the West.
Oddly enough, the reality of naval construction through the Treaty Era meant that Japan's 70% goal was actually reached. The IJN aggressively pursued its building policy, even going as far as fudging numbers and building treaty-circumventing ships like Ryujo, while the US had done only modest upgrades, owing to a resurgence in isolationist sentiment and the onset of the Great Depression. Because of that, for much of the Treaty Era the IJN actually was around the 70% ratio it had so desperately wanted with the USN.
Unfortunately for the IJN, that 70% ratio wouldn't last very long. Once the USN began a new wave of construction as tensions brewed in the leadup to WW2, the extremely poor strategic position of Japan became apparent - and along with it, the benefits of the Washinon Naval Treaty.
But rational hindsight with all the information easily at hand doesn't always work when looking back on historical figures. The biggest issue at the face of it was how the Conference undermined what had been a core tenet of Japanese naval strategy - a fleet that was 70% that of the US Navy. Based on some statistical assumptions relating to losses, the IJN had determined that a fleet 70% the size of the USN would be able to defeat the US Pacific Fleet in a decisive engagement while retaining enough of its fighting strenh to defeat the US Atlantic Fleet that would likely be moved to the region after the first engagement. This strategic concept, which reached its peak in the 8-8 fleet, was undermined not just in the tonnage allotments (giving the IJN only 60% the tonnage of the USN), but in technical terms as well, as it made it more difficult for the IJN to procure (on paper) superior capital ships to those of the USN.
There's already a good answer, but I would add that when the Washinon Naval Treaty was born, there was a strong pre-existing narrative in Japan (among nationalists in particular) that Japan was always getting screwed over by the West through negotiations.
Thanks for the answer, so it seems to be just a bit of fact twisting in IJN than actual legitimate snubbing? Did anyone in Japan ever point out that Italy and France were limited to being a smaller navy than Japan and what was the response?
I'm not sure if France and Italy were pointed out as counterpoints and what the reaction there was, but given their circumstances, it likely wasn't seen as relevant.
Italy and France both had their interests entirely within the Mediterranean and had local competitors both in the form of eachother and the Royal Navy. The arms race there was over dominance over what both considered their "home" region.
Japan, meanwhile, was on the other side of the world from all the other participating powers. From their perspective, the tonnage limits - the 60% ratio from the Royal Navy and US Navy - placed on them left the door open for colonial powers to dominate waters that Japan considered their own. Being unable to reach the 70% ratio they felt they needed made it very easy to make the logical leap to the idea that the foreign powers were trying to undermine Japan's ability to control the seas in the region. Britain and the US could easily be spun as colonial powers wanting to keep the door open for further expansion in the region as opposed to nations hoping to protect their existing interests in the region.
This narrative started with the Ansei "unequal treaties" signed by the Japanese with the US and European powers in the 1850's when Japan was forcibly "opened up," very much on Western terms.
This is the real reason behind Japan’s frustration at the treaty. And it’s the same reason they were frustrated by the Treaty of Portsmouth that ended the Russo-Japanese war. When Commodore Perry arrived in Japan in 1853, the Japanese looked at the world around them and concluded that they had two options. One option was that other countries would make them into a colony. The second was that they could become a colonizer on par with England, the US and other great powers. They chose the latter, and this led to the Meiji Restoration and policies of industrialization and expansion. They came into conflict with Russia and beat a European power, but signed a treaty that the Japanese people viewed as less than it could have been. They felt slighted, not treated as an equal by the colonial powers. Then along comes this treaty, and guess what? They were not treated like a colonial power again. This is why they felt snubbed by the treaty: it was another insult denying them their desired status as a colonial equal to the great European powers.
Then in 1905 Japan agreed to the Port Arthur treaty, ending the Russo-Japanese War. The peace treaty was very unpopular in Japan, because most of the Japanese public did not realize that, despite their military successes during the war, Japan was dangerously overextended and really couldn't afford to continue the war. The peace treaty was met with rioting in Japan and it eventually brought down the government.
The peace negotiations in WW I added to this feeling. The Japanese pushed during the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 the concept of racial equality for League of Nations members. Part of why they wanted it was directly related to prior experience negotiating treaties with the West. The measure ultimately was not adopted (the US and UK in particular were opposed to it), and this further cemented in Japanese minds that they were getting the short end of the stick when negotiating with the West.
So while I think there are objective arguments as to why the Washinon Naval Treaty was actually not unfair to the Japanese, the fact that Japan on the surface was more limited than the US and UK once again fed the (somewhat justified) narrative that the West was not negotiating fairly with Japan and was not treating Japan as an equal.