You can sue your parents and can prevail if you can prove the money wasn’t a gift. You’d have to prove there was a contract to pay you back. Then the hard part: if they don’t have money, they have nothing to pay you back with.
For the card, it’s up to you but you’d need to file a police report for the bank. Yes, your parents can be criminally liable.
Defiantly report the credit and get that fixed ASAP. You’re young and won’t understand how much credit, or lack thereof will cost you. It will take a while to get it off of your credit report, you will need to get proof it wasn’t you and provide and stay on the 3 credit agencies. That ding on your credit for going over the limit, high revolving balance to limit alone can cost you well in excess of 11k when you start using credit for a home or auto etc.
Usually credit card companies offer credit monitoring for free. Sounds like you don’t have any other cards, but look into it. SoFi does it and it’s not a bad platform to stash away a small amount of money and get in the habit, but get some form of credit monitoring. You will literally instantly get an alert anytime someone uses your info to attempt to open new credit.
I’d use the credit abuse above as exhibit A when you try and recover the 11k and would help to show that this wasn’t a gift.
I’m truly sorry for your situation. 19 you shouldn’t have to go through this. Parents, regardless of the child’s age, are supposed to be there to love unconditional and support your success in life; not take from you and scam you.
I mean as much as it might not be a good idea to fuck up a relationship I wouldn't want to keep a relationship with people who are into theft and such. It seems like the parents have already messed up and would only reap what they have sown.
Like others have said you might have a hard time recovering the money, but you can always go for a wage garnishment if you wanted to get down and dirty. I would be as gritty as their actions are. You’re 19 and in college, these should be the years that you are working to mold yourself into the best possible person you can and not having to worry about parents literally stealing and creating identity theft.