OP this is partially incorrect but could vary by state. It will not affect her loan payment and she will not get cash back directly from the extended warranty provider. First, you need to look through her documents and see who the warranty provider is. Contact them to see what they need to cancel. Some require a written request and an odometer meter reading from the dealership to cancel if it's past 30 days. The extended warranty provider will forward the extended warranty refund to the bank that financed the loan and they will apply it to the principal balance. It will reduce your loan term by a few months but that's about all. It will also leave her less upside down on the car. Most of the time these extended warranties have a 30 day no charge cancelation term. Its prorated after that. GAP should be kept.
This depends on how much is owed on the loan. OP never told us if there was a down payment or not. If they put down enough that the car will never be less than the balance of the loan then GAP is a waste of money. Also many car insurance companies offer GAP coverage for a fraction of the price that you pay when you buy it at the dealership, so it may pay to call around.
Edit: Also, if the warranty provider asks you to go through the dealer to cancel, DO NOT let them (the dealer) convince you the "bank required it" to finance the loan. I've had scummy dealers try this line with family members of mine and once I tell them it's illegal to say that and the paperwork from the extended warranty company also states "extended coverage is not required to finance a loan", they normally back down. Stand your ground on it. Have someone with her. They will push back because it eats into their profit margin. They upcharge that extended warranty to increase profit.
Usually the way it works when you cancel a warranty or gap that was financed with the car they just refund the warranty and gap to the loan. This reduced the loan balance but usually does not impact the payment amount, it just means the car gets paid off sooner and you pay less interest as a result. Sometimes they refund it to you directly. This is probably spelled out somewhere in the fine print on the gap and warranty contracts but you might not even have those documents.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.