Unfortunately it sounds like you spoke with a basic CSR. These reps mostly don't know more than what the system says you're due for. They also dont have access to detailed servicing info.
Now your servicer, or their vendor, issued payment based on the publicly available tax roll, or individual bill they received. In the rare case neither was received or found they will issue payment equal to the prior year.
The rep you spoke with should have referred you to their escalated issues team. A team specifically required to answer "Qualified written requests". This team would have issued the missing payment and researched why. This could be an improper bill, or miss payment, or any number of reasons.
However your next steps. Get the escalation teams contact info. Write a letter or email and advise them you were billed by your TA due to their short payment. Provide any proof you have such as the additional bill and your proof you paid it. Ask them for an explanation, and reimbursement of the fees incurred.
As someone else said ultimately your taxes are your responsibility, so if the county changed the billed amount after the roll was issued or you were asses additional fees, you may be responsible. However if they 100% messed up they may write you a check.
I am not your servicer so i cannot review you loan, or guess what the result of their investigation will be. But you should write them asking them to review and provide you an explanation. Please be patient, written request have an allowable response time of 30 days from the date of receipt.
Reread your mortgage. We just refinanced and there’s a statement that if they’re late paying from my escrow account, they’re responsible for any late fees.
This happened with my first mortgage servicer. My property taxes were adjusted and they got a copy of the new bill and I got a new copy. Come December, they paid the old amount, which was insufficient. I filed a complaint with the CFPB and the mortgage company paid the late fee to the county, as well as paying the top off.