I believe wars (even domestic ones) can play a role in the destruction of these writings, and we are lucky that we have some records for civilizations that lived a very long time ago.
There's always more to be said about archives in the ancient Near East, but I wrote about Hittite archives in , and u/Daeres discussed Neo-Assyrian archives in the AskHistorians podcast episode.
The genre(s) of texts attested in an archive depends a great deal on the time period and especially the specific site under discussion. The vast majority of texts from the Ur III period (ca. 2100-2000 BCE) are administrative and economic texts, for instance, whereas texts from the Neo-Assyrian period are more varied and include treaties, personal letters, literary texts, court records, omen texts, historical annals, and so on. Similarly, the distribution of genres varies enormously between sites. The city of Nippur in southern Iraq has yielded copies of nearly all of the known Sumerian literary texts, for example, whereas archaeologists digging at the contemporary city of Ebla in Syria have primarily found administrative and economic texts. It should be emphasized that the tablets discovered at each site are often not representative of the site as a whole but rather reflect the dates and functions of the buildings excavated thus far by archaeologists. (In other words, you're going to find different sorts of texts in an Old Babylonian house than in a Neo-Assyrian temple.) A mere 3% of Babylon has been excavated so far, and many Mesopotamian sites have received much less attention – if any at all – so there is still a lot to be found.
Yes, administrative records were often discarded after a time, and it's not uncommon for an archive to provide only a brief snapshot of life in a palace or temple, often dating to the time of a building's collapse or destruction by fire (thus baking and preserving the tablets). This is the case for the Linear B tablets from Mycenaean palaces, for example, and the tablets from Pylos cover a period of no more than six months ca. 1180 BCE. Since these were intended to be stored only temporarily, one gets references to things "of the last year" (pe-ru-si-nu-wo) rather than specific year dates. Similarly, the Fortification Tablets from Persepolis cover a brief period of around 15 years, with about half of the tablets dating to 500-499 BCE. Ancient historians must necessarily extrapolate from such limited evidence, but it should always be kept in mind that diachronic data is often quite limited.
Marc Van de Mieroop has a good chart with a breakdown of the relative popularity of text genres by time period in Cuneiform Texts and the Writing of History. I uploaded a copy of the chart .