In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
He published truthful negative information about a candidate who he believed that, as secretary of state, personally.
"He had spent the previous seven years living inside the diplomatic premises to avoid arrest after failing to surrender to a UK court on matters relating to a separate case.".
Wasn't that a rape charge? Not even commenting on the merits on the espionage question, but the above quote is dancing very hard around a rather important part of Assange's legal history.
didnt he interfere with our elections on behalf of russia for trump and trump was rumored to have told boris to keep him there for his term. weird he hasnt been brought back to testify under biden.
But you think he was motivated by acting on behalf of russia?? And now ought to be executed or spend life in prison over it?
I know that people often campaign across their own best interests and all ... but I think most people can be expected to back the other guy without any need of further motivation when one candidate suggests literally murdering them specifically.
So are you saying that if you received truthful negative information about a presidential candidate that you believed had advocated for murdering you specifically you would refrain from publishing it to avoid potentially influencing the election? And you're calling me an idiot?
lmfao if you think he wasnt acting on behalf of russia your a fucking idiot. what did he gain out of this champ? you think he did this for himself and the truth?
Since when is all negative information illegal? I don't think anyone could seriously sustain an argument that the leaked material didn't contain much that . But if you do want to claim that it wasn't negative, okay-- then what justifies the ire against him over it? It remains the case that he thought it would adversely impact the candidacy of a person who advocated murdering him.