Unless your lease has a provision saying that you will do this, I'd tell your landlord respectfully but firmly no, and that he is required to honor the terms of your lease.
If he files for eviction, I literally can't imagine any court allowing it. If he changes the locks or otherwise tries to deny you access, that is illegally evicting you and you should call the police to get back into your home.
The Constitutional clause you are thinking of prohibits the government from forcing property owners to house soldiers, it does not relate to private LL's behavior.
However, your LL still can't legally do this as you have paid to live there through 2023. As was said, if LL tries to change the locks or force you to leave/have the soldiers come in, call the police immediately. Non-911 number if the locks are changed, 911 if you feel you are being threatened.
You’ve received other advice that’s relevant so I won’t rehash it. You should note that eviction is frequently a months long process that involves receiving proper notice (often 30 days written, I’ll check for your state and edit this post if there’s anything else to note ) and going to court if the tenant doesn’t leave. The court decides whether an eviction is just. One typically can’t be removed from the grounds by anyone other than law enforcement after a successful eviction. He likely can’t legally get you out of the property in time to house these servicemembers. Is he actually in the military? Because I wouldn’t be above asking his chain of command to explain to him how his request makes no sense.
You can call the military base and explain what the LL is trying to do, because I suspect the soldiers have no idea he is illegally trying to force you out and I'm sure the military doesn't want its personnel to be caught up in this.
Definitely seek legal advice, even if you make the LL back off now, you don't know what he'll do in the future, and if he knows you have an advocate on your side, he is less likely to cause you trouble.