In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I'd say 15% were calls from constituents with valid complaints or issues they'd want to bring to their politician's attention, another 15% were other offices, and the final 70% were people that had nothing better to do than just call unpaid interns and yell and swear.
We had regulars that would call everyday and just start going off about the then president or some new thing they saw on Fox news.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Honestly the highlight of my day was the regulars. I'd just pick up the phone and do a crossword while they rambled or set it down and walk away for a minute or two.
Then there were the people from out of the district that would call just to harass us for being part of a different political party. They'd scream and swear or try to interrogate me about something like the capital of Canada and if I hesitated in my response to their random trivia they'd call me stupid and that I shouldn't have a job. Remember, this was all an unpaid internship in one of the most expensive cities in America.
I had one dude call about how he was pissed he paid a toll in another state and he wanted his representatives to do something about it. About the toll. The state toll. From another state. That his representatives at the federal level should do something about.
The majority of people email these days. Different groups make it easy for their people to submit letters to their representatives and senators by just clicking a button.
The NRA for example will blast their contact list with X issue and at the bottom will be a button that says contact your representative and it basically autofills out a form with your information and a filled out statement.
Then the office uses a program to batch all of these emails and responses into different political issues.
So if a shitty petting zoo was coming to the state that week, a post might go around Facebook and people would send in emails and we'd see "Oh, 72 people wrote in about this last night. Let's have one of the interns look into this and write up a brief for the legislative aid that deals with animal issues." Then the aide decides if this is something the representative would like to address or if they wouldn't. They pass it off to the chief of staff and if it's important enough the politician sees it.
And each of those emails gets an automated reply from the representative based on the issue they sent in about and whether they were pro or against. Very rarely did anyone get their own response and if they did, it was probably typed up by me and not the politician.
We had two guys that refused to speak to a woman and would always request a man, a woman that swore she graduated from Harvard but could barely string a sentence together, and another woman that refused to talk to the guy that sounded gay. Good times, good times.
As a Longview WA resident, I hear this type of crap all the time, especially from homeless. Reagan sure did a number on the USA when he emptied out and closed mental health hospitals and clinics back in the day.