Does your husband also work there? I'm confused why your place of work would have any say in whether he can take time off to drive you to an appointment.
I'm further confused by how your/his signature being legal has anything to do with whether he could take time off. I get that your employer is nosy, but the signature issue (which isn't really an issue at all) has literally nothing to do with them.
to treat this purely academically, yes it is legal for your husband to sign for you. As I'm a Texas lawyer I'll use the laws of Texas to explain.
As others have said, any mark you intend to represent your agreement to a document is a "signature." If you make your mark, and in doing so you intent is to agree to the document and/or have the other party believe that you have agreed, then you've "signed.".
But what if you cannot sign yourself, like OP? Yes, you could use your left hand, pen in your mouth, use your feet, or even draw a picture of an Albatross Chick. But let's say you REALLY can't do any of those things, or you'd rather not sketch a quick portrait of the cutest giant flying bird (again, the albatross chick). Then you can authorize anyone else to sign for you.
You create a principal-agent relationship between you (the principal) and signer (your agent). Let's use an Albatross Breeder as an example. The Breeder, Alba, wants to buy 3 new Albatrosses as studs for his flock. But he can't sign the contract because some old sailor shot off both his hands. So the Breeder says to his buddy, he says "'Ey Mate, would ye kindly sign this 'civil obligation' on my behalf?" (civil obligation is Bird law for "contract"). So the signer becomes the agent of the principal/Breeder for the limited purpose of affirming Breeder's agreement to the contract.
What should the Signer write? Well, in Texas we'd expect to see Signer sign his name, then write in "Sam Coleridge, on behalf of Alba T. Ross." (Alba is e Breeder's name, remember that now). BUT anything that shows that an Agent is signing on behalf of a Principal is sufficient. Let's Alba, through his Agent Sam, actually signed to buy 3 Austral Storm Petrels (a much smaller seabird) instead. When Alba goes to sue, the contract needs to identify who signed on behalf of Alba. That way both parties know who the witness would be. Alba can't claim he's not bound to the contract because "Sam actually signed." We just call Sam to the stand to testify. (did you sign this? for Alba? did Alba ask you to sign for him? did you sign this for yourself? etc etc).
In my personal life, i sign on behalf of my wife all the time. If we're turning in less-important forms like school permission slips, and she's at work and i have the document, I'll just ask if i can sign for her. I don't usually bother with "scclbr with permission to sign for wife " People who don't know the law get antsy when they see that. We never do it for official government forms because lol, don't fuck with the stuff.
Now, in my professional life, i constantly give other Attorneys permission to sign things for me. We usually don't go through all this, because there's often an email saying "yeah that looks good you can sign it for me And they just write in SCCLBR. Super common, not illegal, a bit of a cracked shell though if i then said "i never agreed to that.
In sum, TL;DR - you can totally sign for someone else in Texas if you have their permission. Do not shoot albatrosses or confuse them with Austral Storm Petrels. On the signature, identify who you are and for whom you're signing. Love you, bye!