Ah yes, because the denuclearization of Ukraine was supposed to end the Russo-Ukrainian War too. What happened to that declaration? It's safe to assume all bets, treaties, declarations are off while Putin remains in power.
There is also currently no war between Russia and other countries that they made peace with once upon a time. Putin attacking Japan is somewhat unlikely, as it doesn't advance any of his strategic or ideological goals the way that attacking Ukraine does.
Japan was ready to give up claims to all the Kuril Islands, in their words. However, to Japan, this specifically excluded the Habomai Islets and the island of Shikotan, which they had never regarded to be part of the Kurils in the first place. This island and group of islets had also historically been settled by Japanese people.
However, the USA did not want the USSR to take all the Kuril Islands and thus be able to control entry to the Sea of Okhotsk. So they basically said to Japan: "If you don't lay claim to Kunashir and Itorup too, then you aren't getting Okinawa back!".
No, I’d send a Titan, what would scare the shit out of Russians more?: A mech suit, or a 100ft tall drunk, naked cannibal running towards them at 150mph?
Actually, let’s meet in the Middle and just send in an EVA unit or MechaGodzilla you get the mech suit, I get the monster.
So since then, Japan has laid claim to Kunashir and Itorup too, on top of Shikotan and the Habomai Islets. Russia controls all of them currently, but has repeatedly said that they're willing to give Shikotan and the Habomai Islets back if Japan at the same time rescinds all claims to Kunashir and Itorup.
However, in the meantime, those two islands have become a talking point for Japanese nationalists, who now see them as rightfully theirs, and since the LDP - the party that is almost always in control of the Japanese government - has an extremely high concentration of ultranationalists (far more than the population as a whole), they are unwilling to give up Itorup and Kunashir even now.
As for the rest of the Kuril Islands (and Sakhalin which was mentioned elsewhere in the thread), Japan makes no claim to them, and nobody recognises them as anything other than Russian. Arguably the Ainu (native people of the area) living in Russia have actually been treated (slightly) better than those living in Japan, in terms of minority rights.
Meanwhile, the USA and the EU also do recognise Kunashir and Itorup as being rightfully Japanese. Again, largely because it would be nice if Russia couldn't control access to the Sea of Okhotsk.
It is entirely true that Japan was ready to give up claims to all of the Kurils (excluding Habomai and Shikotan, which they never considered part of the Kurils). And if you look at historical Japanese maps, this is supported - Itorup and Kunashir are labelled as part of the Kurils, which Japan agreed to cede, while Shikotan and the Habomai Islets are not.
Japan has, to my knowledge, done more to develop the infrastructure in Ainu areas, and quality of life is undoubtedly better. But at the same time, Ainu culture has also been erased more in Japan than in Russia, and it's more common for Ainu people to hide their ethnicity in Japan than it is in Russia. Japan used to have a programme for conservation of Ainu culture, but it never received much attention from the government and has been shut down recently.
It's also a historical fact that the US threatened to keep Okinawa if Japan did not keep claiming those two southernmost Kuril islands, and that this was due to controlling access to the Sea of Okhotsk.
Finally, it's a historical fact that Russia has repeatedly offered to give Shikotan and Habomai back, in return for Japan giving up all claims to all the Kurils.
Of course, neither Japan nor Russia have any historical justification in controlling Sakhalin and the Kurils, at least not going back further than 150 years. Before then the areas were controlled by their own local people before foreign powers (China, Japan and Russia) began doing settler-colonialism there.