In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Basically we see how “out” groups are treated in Asian countries and we see how they are treated here and would vote against every other interest to ensure we won’t be treated that way here.
Yeah I don't get why Asians aren't voting more Dems when the orange phuck calls Youngkin a Chinese name when it's obviously a Korean name. /s.
This is what I, a third generation Asian American, have found. 1st generation Asian immigrants are somewhat oblivious to the blatant racism of conservatives in this country and especially oblivious to the history of how minorities are treated in this country. Typically they come from somewhat ethically homogenous nations or at least are part of the “in” group and don’t realize they are part of the “out” group. They come from countries without large social safety nets and without heavy taxes so are especially resistant to the idea of paying taxes to fund the poor. In general, those societies tend to have somewhat rigid social hierarchies or caste systems which align more with how conservatives view social structures in the US.
Having grown up in this country and both learned about the history of how minorities are treated and experienced it themselves, second generation Asians tend skew more leftward. They tend to be very aware they are part of the “out” group or could very easily be part of the “out” group. Moreover, they have benefited from meritocratic social structures which contributes to them being the most wealthy social group in the country.
I have met probably hundreds if not thousands of 2nd generation Asian Americans in my lifetime and I think I’ve met only 2 that were republicans.
Statistically , and most Asian Americans who vote vote for Democrats. My impression is that conservative Boomer immigrants still favor Democrats in spite of being much more conservative than your average 1.5 gen or 2nd+ gen who grew up here. No Democratic presidential nominee can win Asians 2 to 1 without winning or tieing foreign-raised immigrants, the math just doesn’t work.