If the shop charged you or insurance for repairs they did not complete, but instead covered-up, that's fraud. In many states, automotive repair fraud, if proven, provides for treble damages on the original repair bill, that is, 3x the amount. If safety of the vehicle's occupants was put at risk as a result (e.g., SRS/airbags system not restored to functional condition, but the warning light disabled), that would open the door to possible criminal liability on the shop, and possible additional punitive damages for you if you successfully made a case.
The first step is to get all paperwork related to the improper repair in order. If there's a clear case of them claiming to have made and billed for repairs and parts they did not provide, you'll likely have no trouble finding an AZ attorney who would know if there's a treble damage statute-- I was not able to find anything in a cursory search, but regardless, if the bill was sizable, it may be worth pursuing by retaining an attorney on a contingency basis.
Thank you I don’t know if this counts as “criminal”, but while waiting for the replacement wheel, they gave me the “ok” to drive back to Seattle on the cracked (by the time I got to Wa pieces were missing) rim and misaligned front wheels. It certainly put me at risk, but was ultimately my decision to drive. Thoughts? Again, I appreciate your help.
You're correct, even if they provided poor advice, it was still ultimately your choice to drive on a cracked wheel. It only gets really serious if they had misrepresented making a repair they did not perform and concealed it in a way that a prudent driver could not even identify a defect which was creating a safety risk.
If they didn't conceal bad or nonexistent repairs, but just did enough to get you back on the road, and didn't charge you for any services they didn't perform or any parts they didn't install, then there likely wouldn't be any basis for any legal action against the shop. If you paid for more complete repairs, but didn't receive them, that's really the key to having a case.
I paid for complete repairs on everything- only just found out there was still significant damage behind the front bumper because the dealership took it off during the inspection and informed me. I will ask the dealer if the damage behind the bumper posed any safety risk. I’ll have to check the paperwork to see what they billed me for, but they told me they fixed everything damaged when I picked it up (only verbal though). Could they argue the damage wasn’t there when they had my vehicle, and that the damage was sustained in the months I’ve had it back?
It should be reasonably obvious if the damage was not corrected at the time of the original repairs, especially if there are photos of the original damage and a service write-up describing what repairs were required. I'd think they'd also have documented their repairs to prove they performed as agreed. The bar in a civil lawsuit is just preponderance of evidence, do if you produce current pictures of damage that is consistent with the original damage, and the shop is unable to produce their own evidence, such as in-progress and completed repairs to your vehicle, and they charged you for work they clearly didn't perform, you'd probably have a case to pursue.
Where it might get more complicated is if you asked them to make complete repairs, they claimed to make complete repairs, they neglected some details, but didn't charge you for the things they didn't do, the case for fraud would be weak, it's more likely that incomplete or shoddy repairs would not be worth a suit unless it costs you substantially more to undo what was done to fix your car correctly.
Another consideration is that wrecked vehicles are rarely going to be repaired so perfectly that a trained eye can't find hidden evidence of repairs. Some collision shops may choose to not replace parts with inconsequential damage that affects neither safety nor cosmetic appearance, due to cost, delays if they can't get the part in a timely manner, or that sort of thing.
For example, one shop may order a new grille to replace one with a cracked support. Another shop might source a used one from a salvage yard. Yet another might feel the damage is minor enough that using glue or epoxy to repair the damage is an adequate repair. All approaches would be valid, as long as no misrepresentation occurred.
To phrase is another way, they did not disclose their choice to not fix the issue behind the bumper. Would this constitute misrepresentation by omission?
There's no misrepresentation or omission if they just didn't bother to mention additional repairs they could have made, at most, that would arguably be a poor business practice, but unlikely to have caused you any damages from a legal standpoint if they simply didn't bother to estimate a repair they could have made, didn't point it out to you, didn't perform the repair, and didn't charge you.
I'd take anything the dealer says with a grain of salt, your next step would be to get another collision shop to give you an estimate on completing the repairs. It would also be great if they could look over your invoice from the previous repair to see if there are any fraudulent charges on it.
Last question- would it be possible to have them cover the cost of transporting the vehicle back to Tucson from Seattle (where I am now)? Only a couple hundred dollars if I drive down, but still a substantial cost. Thanks again, you’ve been very helpful.
I see. At the very least, I imagine they will guarantee their repairs and consent to finishing the necessary repairs? The dealer told me the damage was pretty severe behind the bumper, they were unable to completely fix the alignment because of it. Certainly should have been fixed considering the mechanical implications it posed, in other words, the damage is consequential.
Once you know what you're dealing with, then you'd have to make a decision how to proceed. If there's demonstrable fraud, not only would you not want to take your car back to that shop, but you may want to sue them.
If it's honest, but sloppy/incomplete work, sure, you could give them a chance to complete the work, but you shouldn't expect them to do much more than correct anything free of charge except things they actually attempted to repair & botched. They may not even offer a warranty on their work, it depends on what the repair contract states in terms of what's guaranteed.
Put another way, it's nothing more than a customer service issue if they were lazy and performed a half-assed repair, but did nothing that actually caused additional damages to you.
The alignment issue sounds the most serious, but it wouldn't be actionable since they did mention it, but you declined that part of the repair over the time it would take. It's very unprofessional if they didn't mention that up front and the time it would take, but instead just waited until you noticed it, but that's still a customer service issue.
Regardless of why the rest of your car wasn't repaired completely, the shop might cut you a small break on additional repairs, but they certainly wouldn't be obligated to do so, or to arrange transportation of your car back to their shop. It certainly couldn't hurt to contact them to see what they might be willing to do, but it doesn't seem likely that it'd be worth the cost and hassle to transport your car to a collision shop a few states away, to a shop that already demonstrated poor customer service and lack of pride in their work.