First off, even professional Historians only ever specialize in a very small slice of a specific event/topic-- that's the only way to get to a point where you can know as much as possible to start making informed advances to a field. If you notice, flairs on this sub are usually pretty narrow. For example I am very well versed on the French Revolution, but I quality that as only 4 years of the main "Revolution". I am not entirely ignorant of what comes before or after, but that's where I have the most knowledge.
Now to your point about feeling like you have to go back to the beginning of time essentially to fully understand everything, I think you're thinking about it the wrong way. So just using me again as an example, I love reading about the French Revolution from 1789-1794 especially, but most histories go through Napoleon's coup. I then for some reason am not much interested in Napoleon, but I like to pick back up at the Bourbon Restoration and then the July Monarchy. Me being more-or-less ignorant about the finer workings of Napoleon's reign do not make me any less able to understand what's happening 15 years later.
To use your example, I think maybe you need to focus on "What is important to know?" The Seven Years War is pointed to as a large factor in getting France on the way to Revolution, which is my wheelhouse. But I've never studied it in depth because I don't need to. Here is what I know about it:
Thanks for the detailed reply! I think you're quite right about the authors. Right now I'm reading "Japan: From Prehistory to Modern Times" by John Whitney Hall, and while its not dry scholarly work, I do find myself skimming through bits as names start dropping left and right.
I don't know what Prussia did, I don't know the details of the treaty, those are the facts that I need to know to understand the French Revolution on a deeper scale. You do NOT need to know the political hegemony of all of Europe in order to read about the Napoleonic Wars, and just by reading about them you'll probably start to pick up a lot of it. Don't think of History as a comic book series, think of it like the 19 Avengers movies that are out now, the characters shift, and there is a thread of some story in there, but it's mainly just pretty colors and exciting action scenes.
As for books, make sure you're not trying to find super deep scholarship, especially because they tend to leave out background info. A good place to start is the AskHistorian's booklist on the sidebar: ( ) a lot of us flared users also have booklists in our profiles here:
Lastly, remember that History books are still books, therefore there will be authors you don't like. I can read a book on the most interesting subject that I already know a bit about and have my mind numb 5 pages in. Play around until you find authors you like to help get you into a subject!
Comparing that to Thomas Asbridge's book on the Crusades, that book is hype AF from start to finish. Although to be fair I don't know how you can make the Crusades not exciting to read about, although I'm sure high school history programs must have tried.
It was expensive for France, and the outcome was France losing colonies in North America (Canada) and their influence in India.
France was super pissed at Austria after, making Louis XVI & Marie-Antoinette's upcoming marriage unpopular.