Russia is getting help from all the regimes they've helped prop up, I think they realize that if Russia falls, so does a big part of the black market that supplies them.
north koreas GDP is primarily black market exports- generating 2BN of the countries GDP. They wouldn’t survive without it. In otherwords.
It's disingenuous to use the "both sides" argument now. Only one party was party to an attempted insurrection and has courted conspiracy theorist and anti democratic rhetoric. One one party is trying to suppress voters who they don't like and promoting fascist rhetoric. Sadly today's Republican party are closer to fascist than traditional Republicans. Hate democrats all you like, but by and large they are still pro western values like democracy. The Republicans, not so much.
… point in saying that is the life of those in the inner party is by and large provided by and paid for the trade of black market goods- drugs, weapons, people.. etc.
The more insulated in the party you get, the more ammenities you are allowed access too, and information too (that america isn’t in fact an agressor, and that america is really a paper tiger to control the narritive in the country that already has a controlled flow of information in and out of the country.
Their main goal is to lift these sanctions, but they can’t because the international community knows- If North Korea is able to prosper- they are aggressive as fuck and have no trust. They won’t cooperate with the world, and will develop weapons that threaten world. So we send them aid when they rattle their sabers but they know and we know if they did anything- they’d be wiped out.
And it also provides a scapegoat to the fact north koreas economy is in shambles due to the sanctions on their country for many years.
Without that- their party is at huge risk of being vulnerable. It’s within north koreas best interest to preserve the buffer countries it does business with and has relations with. People might start questioning the Kim family. Politics is ruthless as fuck their even though they are “one party country”.
When I think of North Korea- I can’t imagine how much some of those people suffer. Giving their love and praise to despots who don’t give a fuck about them outside of their continued worship and obedience.
They happen to be super lucky they have history with both China and Russia. And a big ocean separating us from them. Or they’d have a tough time existing without their protectorate nations propping them up. It’s a symbiosis that is necessary to ensure the regime stays in power. And just as crucially that information is strictly controlled, and people rightfully oppressed through lack of humanistic governance, poverty and violence.
No, their situation is just precarious due to a series of poor management. The 1st was when they faced their own housing bubble crisis and suddenly millions couldn't get their investment back from real estate. Unfortunately unlike the US, almost 80-90% invest in real estate because it was seen as "stable". Unfortunately people began investing in apartments that basically never got built for YEARS . People were so eager to get their money in real Estate, Devopers would basically take the money to pay off the previous debt and continue developing a new project before the previous even began. You might know this as a "Ponzi Scheme". The crisis was basically a giant Ponzi scheme the govt left unchecked. This created an even more dire situation. So thousands protested to get their money back due to frustration and caused civil unrest.
The result was massive lockdowns still 3 years in that hurt the economy, but also caused people to become extremely frustrated because it was also poorly done. Doors to apartments and homes would literally be welded shut, trapping hundreds, sometimes thousands suddenly without warning. Delivery of food to these places were supposed to happen, but again, that wasnt always the case, causing many to die from things like dehydration. The reason they continued this policy is because they are too stubborn to accept better vaccines from the west.
North Korea will stick around. The symbiosis they have with China works well for both of them. NK shores up chinas sphere of influence in Asia, along with Laos and Vietnam. I wouldn’t be surprised if the junta in Myanmar is being supported by them either. But I’d say North Korea needs China more then China needs it.
This trriggered mass protests across China on a scale unseen since 1989. Because of these protests, the govt got scared and almost overnight lifted every single covid policy. No masks, no vaxx, no lockdowns, no regulations at all. The pendulum swung to the complete opposite extreme.
This ended up meaning a giant unvaxxed population was set loose after years of no immunity built to variants. As a result, now 80% of the entire population caught covid causing a healthcare crisis at hospitals.
Second, their economy suffered because they kept a 0 covid policy without a transition in place to a vaccinated system like other countries.
This all came to a head when - because of this shortsighted policy - an apartment caught fire, trapping and killing dozens of people because the doors were welded shut.
So basically their hands are full, and Russia is literally the last thing they'd want to deal with along with a unstable economy and pissed off population.