The last 2 days were pretty quiet, there were no missile strikes, but as usual the towns that are close to the border get shelled every day. I don’t think there were even any reports of Kupiansk getting shelled these past 2 days, but it still could have been shelled, just not reported, there aren’t that many people living there nowadays after all. Though there were also no missile launches from Belgorod, so if it was shelled, then it was done by regular artillery and not missiles.
While it was pretty quiet here, it wasn’t nearly as quiet in Belgorod because our forces managed to hit a couple of targets there yesterday. Looks like they hit both an oil refinery, and a factory that was making parts for the Kerch bridge, so those are some pretty good news. In response to that Russians decided to raise the terrorist threat level in the region to yellow. Funny how hitting their military targets is terrorism, but hitting our civilians with missiles is just fine and not at all terrorism.
Great to hear that GLSDBs were finally officially announced, it was enough to make Medvedev throw yet another nuclear tantrum, saying that “Ukraine will burn” if we hit Crimea, yeah right. Did he forget that we hit Crimea many times already? And he promised us a judgement day for hitting it before, but for some reason it didn’t happen even though we destroyed an entire air base with a lot of their planes after his promise. Do Russians really not see how weak they look by constantly threatening nuclear war and never backing up their words? Either do it already, or stop with your stupid threats, which are not being taken seriously anyway, or we wouldn’t be getting tanks and long-range weapons right now.
Russia has now visually confirmed to have lost more than 2000 infantry fighting vehicles (IFVs) since it began its invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 2022.
Truthfully I didn't even know we had tanks, might as well give them to our brothers/sisters in Ukraine!
Tank crews from the Armed Forces of Ukraine have been quick to master the controls of the mighty Challenger 2 this week.
The UK is providing Challenger 2 tanks to Ukraine to help them defend their homeland and retake territory.
1/ Wagner fighters released from the war in Ukraine are reportedly to be secretly be put under surveillance. Meanwhile, Wagner head Yevgeny Prigozhin's influence seems to have waned, prompting publicity stunts to boost his profile, like the feud with Igor 'Strelkov' Girkin. ⬇️.
Not as rosy as the Russian bots want you to believe. Sorry, long post again - shared by other Russian channels, complaining about mil. inspectors doing everything for the good picture to get bonus points, reporting lies to the command about the state of the troops.
I‘m happy to hear those words from her, because this is something that to my knowledge has not yet been stated a lot and unmistakably by high ranking officials.
2/4 Finally I got some time to share a few images, which can shed some light on what's going on near Vuhledar. As I previously indicated in my reports, the heaviest combats happened in the areas of southern and eastern dachi.
⚡️The EU has decided to introduce a maximum price for russian oil products, according to the website of the European Commission.
Additional footage of a fire at an oil storage facility in the Borisovka, Belgorod region this night.
It is also interesting that, according to the information from the website of the factory, where this incident occurred, this plant also manufactured parts for Crimean bridge.
3/4 Fresh scorch marks on fresh snow can visually confirm that the enemy continues attempts to establish control over the dachi's area by covering assaulting infantry groups with heavy artillery fire.
4/4 You can also see how the enemy attempted to outflank Vuhledar from the East, but sustained losses and had to retreat to Mykil's'ke.
Update on Bakhmut, 4 February: the situation is as difficult as it was, but the Cossacks are holding the defence. In Kiyanyn's personal opinion, Bakhmut may be the breaking point for the Russians, who are not having an easy time they're trying to demonstrate.
They cant rest, they cant win. We haunt them, we hunt them. Russia should end this now, for their sake..
1/4 No significant changes for the past 24 hours. The enemy continues to increase the number of artillery and infantry in the area. It seems that the enemy is preparing for slow grinding tactics which we have previously seen near Bakhmut.
Current defense policy seems to be a pan-european mess. We‘ve been caught pants down. It’s embarrassing. I hope we dig ourselves out of this hole.