While you wait for fresh answers from qualified experts, you may be interested in some past threads about the topic.
I wouldn't say "yes" to the answer "Was pre-CCP Tibet slave-based?" Even with caveats. This would imply that the entire Tibetan economy was slave-dependent, for which I've seen no evidence.
What there is evidence of is forms of slavery that existed in Himalayan cultures. Though comparing them with chattel slavery and implying that this was independent Tibet's whole raison d'etre is just propaganda, with no basis in reality. Most of the time they can't even keep the propaganda straight, sometimes calling it a "caste" system, and sometimes just calling it slavery. Any post outside of r/AskHistorians that mentions Tibet has to immediately start with slavery.
It's also hard to say anything definitive about the types of slavery since Tibetic societies across the board are extremely different from one another. Bhutan has kept good records and has been independent from Tibet since the 1600s, and they got rid of their Zap/Drap system in the 1960s, so we have a pretty good idea of what a Tibetan-speaking government and people would do in the event of the abolition of slavery, including the fact that their economy wouldn't collapse (which a slave-based economy would should abolition suddenly be forced upon them).
It's worth mentioning at this point that the Central Tibetan Administration, the Tibetan government in exile is neither theocratic nor slave-based. The Tibetan Constitution written in exile prohibits slavery, and the Dalai Lama stepped down from positions of political authority in 2011. His successors would from then on hold high positions of spiritual authority and no doubt be held in places of extremely high esteem by Tibetans forever more, but the political authority of the Tibetans in Exile is the democratically elected Sikyong (Prime Minister) who would be both the Head of State and Head of Government if the CTA was returned to power in Tibet tomorrow.
Finally, I think it's worth noting at this point that this argument about a slavery-based theocracy is promoted constantly by CCP propagandists, who use the lack of scholarly attention (primarily because of their own politicization of the issue) to denigrate historic Tibetan society and promote their own legitimacy and their "liberation" of the region. Of course, any cursory glance at Tibetan history shows that Tibetans have no problem revolting against tyrants - Tibetan, Mongol, Manchu, or Chinese - and have no problem living under foreign rulers in principle. Still, as a historian specializing in Tibetan and Himalayan areas, I come up on this issue pretty much constantly, and when it comes to the issue of politics, sovereignty, and human rights, the current CCP line is that everything in the past was hell, then the PLA liberated Tibet, and everything has been glorious since (China's Tibet: Autonomy or Assimilation above is all about the CCP's shifting propaganda story about Tibet since 1950). This leaves an important questions: If the Dalai Lama and his government were horrible, slaveocratic dictators, why did the CCP try to work with him not just through the '50s, but all the way into the '90s? (Wouldn't that imply that the CCP was perfectly fine with Tibetan slavery so long as it scored them political points?).
We also know for certain that Tibetan people were subject to corvee labor, i.e. labor as a form of tax. Which, of course, is not mutually exclusive with slavery, but it is often implied that the Tibetan government was a slaveocracy, which stresses the logic of taxing the remaining 10% of the populace for their labor when 90% of the people were already enslaved to the theocracy (as one often hears from CCP propagandists).
CCP propaganda usually goes off the deep end when it comes to stories of slavery in Tibet. There is a famous movie about pre-CCP Tibet where Tibetan slaves were forced to carry their masters on their shoulders (see ), despite noone ever hearing of such a thing, or the logic of the scene being severely lacking, even in the world of the movie. And of course, there are stories everywhere about how Tibetan monks were bloodthirsty, Elizabeth Bathory types, .
As for the "Theocracy" part of the question, well that's pretty unambiguous, if a bit of a misnomer. The Tibetan government was based out of the monasteries, specifically the Geluk establishment. Indeed the official name of the government was the Ganden Phodrang, which literally translates to the Palace of Ganden, the Ganden in reference being Ganden Monastery, one of the main three Geluk Monasteries in the Lhasa area.
EDIT: To clarify, at no point have I or anyone been trying to imply that Tibetan slaves, Draps, Zaps, or whatever other name they might have gone by were happy being slaves. This is ridiculous on the face of it, and even the most privileged people of Tibetan and Bhutanese society, i.e. the Dalai Lama and the Kings of Bhutan, have acknowledged before in the past that Himalayan slaves were treated poorly and have made efforts to not only right that historical injustice, but have repeatedly acknowledged it. If there is a point to be made about the treatment of an underclass and political sovereignty, it's that if human rights abuses delegitimize a government, that's a bit of a glass-houses situation.
The fact of the matter is that while this question of slavery, labor, and structure of the pre-1950 Tibetan economy is a fascinating historical detail, we have to rely on comparisons from places outside of the Plateau itself and sparse historical records, as most Tibetan historians have been monks, who were mostly interested in religious topics, and didn't worry too much about the specifics of the average peasant or laborer.
In one of my previous answers, I discuss the rGyud bzhi, a Tibetan medical text that discusses the use of a knife "that has killed nine people" being the most powerful. There's a dozen ways to interpret this passage without resorting to symbolism.
That doesn't mean we know nothing, nor that government propagandists have the last word on the issue. And of course, the question of the structure of the Tibetan economy pre-1950 really doesn't have any statement on political sovreignty, popular determination, or the historic position of Tibetan people and government. A statement which usually accompanies these kinds of accusations.
Is your specific objection the implication that these objects were created through violent or coercive means?
My objection to the dismissal of "Elizabeth Bathory type ritual instruments" is on the implication that they were acquired through blood thirsty murderers who farmed the peasantry for their body parts. Not only do we have documentation of this story (see China's Tibet?: Autonomy or Assimilation by Warren W. Smith) it doesn't make sense in the logic of Tibetan Buddhism.