"...they show me a slip of paper with a diagram of a car and a pen mark on the windshield to indicate it was broken.".
Did you get a copy of this paper when you dropped the car off? If they marked down defects on the car when you took it in, you should have initialed that diagram and received a copy.
Obligatory NAL, however I don't see any other advice, and I've had my fair share of Warranty experiences. Play the ally card, agree with them if they claim that their mechanics didn't do anything, File an insurance claim for the damages, if it wasn't them, then someone vandalized it in their parking lot. File a police report even, rustle so many feathers that I guarantee you will get your car fixed.
Post a review on google, that will be forwarded to whoever is listed as the owner of the business on google maps. They will be notified of the bad review.
Either way, there's damage to the car, no matter what happened, it should be rectified. They also cannot prove it was there before you arrived at the dealership, as you did not sign the damage notice. Written on paper, it must be signed by both parties (Think of when you rent a car, or perhaps they provided you with a loaner?).
That was my train of thought. I’m going to try Corporate first and then make my way up the ladder. It’s maddening how the common man always gets screwed over. If I go through insurance, I get a claim and my rates may go up through no fault of my own. It’s literally a service center, I don’t understand why they’re so lazy to do a proper job and give my car back how I gave it in.
Well the shop is claiming they didn't do the damage, you're claiming it happened. It's just another thought really. Claim it was vandalism, someone mad at the dealership maybe took it out on your car, either way it was damaged my thought is how else would you report major damage to your car, that happened while it was parked? Hit and run, but that would require an actual accident.
But the actual problem is internal, wouldn’t it be ridiculous someone in a parking lot popped open the hood? Also, it was inside the shop (as far as I know).
I would look for an attorney who specializes in Lemon Law and Consumer Protection. If you had this car since brand new then you might have a solid case.