You would likely have rights as a next of kin. If you feel it's reasonable (and a judge agrees) that your grandmother's wishes were to split her estate equally 3 ways to her children, and one or more of those children predeceased her, then generally speaking, without a will or trust to stipulate otherwise, the normal flow of inheritance is to the then living heirs, meaning children, or living grandchildren, and so on.. you'd get 1/n of 1/3 of your grandmothers estate. Where n is the number of children your father had, assuming he did not have a will, or a will that stipulated an equal share of his estate.
A big factor is what kind of money is at stake here. If there's a house, and/or any significant assets including real estate, cash, securities, etc, it may be worth it. Usually a consult with a local estate / probate attorney can be had for free or low cost ($50-100 maybe) and they can inform you at that point what the cost may be.
Having a lawyer for this would benefit you somewhat, but it's possible that even without an attorney representing you individually, you may qualify under any judgement if someone else in your position challenges this in probate court.
What if I don't sign the waiver but also don't consult an attorney or do anything about it going forward basically just remove myself entirely. What would happen in probate court? For both scenarios, if there is no will and if a will is found stipulating the division into 3 shares.
Most probable worst case, if you do nothing and do not sign the waiver, your interests will not be considered and you'd get nothing. Basically the same as if you do sign the waiver - the only difference being it would complicate probate slightly for those who do get involved in the process.
IANAL, and I can't really say how a judge would decide something like this. If you want to protect your interests and potentially secure what I think most people would see as "rightfully" yours, that is, an inheritance from your grandmother through your father, then you should consult an attorney.
Best case if you do nothing, the courts contact you at some point to let you know you've been allocated a share of her estate, and you can decide then if you want it or want to waive your claim.
In any case, be aware that you will not personally be liable for any taxes, debts, or costs associated with inheriting assets from an estate. DO consider what your grandmother's wishes were, and what your relationship with her was, not the relationship with other family members and their wishes.