Location is key here, but generally speaking most jurisdictions do not allow for tenants to move into uninhabitable spaces to renovate them while in place EXCEPT in the case the person is suitably qualified having appropriate licensing and qualifications to do the work and certain guidelines are followed to the T. Do you have such qualifications? Were appropriate permits pulled and if necessary zoning changes made? Was the electrical for the property suitably reconfigured and/or service capacity increased to account for this unit? Was the work inspected to ensure it meets all codes and a certificate of occupancy granted?
Right now it sounds like you’re living in an illegal unit, and unfortunately that basically wipes out any lease or contracts you may have drawn up. Basically the resolution for both of you is for you to stop paying rent and move out. Now if the unit did receive some certificate of occupancy she’s definitely executing an illegal eviction by way of stopping a utility, and local and state laws would have resolutions for that and what damages you could possibly recoup from her.
The town I live in has a owner builder Clause, in the building code where basically we pulled the permit to work on the unit, and because we didn't alter the foundation or framework or any support joists etc, when she pulled the permit that was acquired to "add a bed room and living space to existing attic" because she owns the home she basically then becomes the contractor and assumes that liability. Also, the work done here aside from the electrical was mostly standard carpentry, framing insulation drywall etc.
None of the electrical stuff really makes sense, but that doesn't matter because what she is doing to you as a tenant is not legal.
You are a tenant, regardless of whether or not you have a formal signed lease or other agreement. Worst case you are a month to month tenant and she would be required to serve you formal notice that she is ending your tenancy effective according to whatever state law requires. That's often 30 days for month to month, but depending on State and local jurisdiction can be more (not often less) and have other stipulations regarding rent controls.
As for the electrical situation, while there are less rules for renting out a room in a house versus an entire living space, a warrant of habitability should still carry in your situation. What that means is she has to provide you access to certain common amenities such as running water, windows/doors in good repair, heat, and electricity. She can make you pay utility bills, just can't deny access.
Back to the rent / "self-help" eviction issue, what she is doing is not legal as you have presented it. If I were you I would start trying to find a new place to live immediately, and in the meantime inform her that you intend to stay until she follows the proper procedures to end your tenentcy legally. This does not mean staying until she gets an eviction order against you, just that she needs to go through all the proper procedure before she would even be able to file for an eviction with the courts.
This may be a code violation, and generally your first stop would be your county or city code enforcement, you can often get help from your local fire department as well - especially if she is creating fire hazards by requiring the use of long extension cords to run space heaters.
Make sure that you have secured some documents that prove you live there, this could be any mail sent to you at that address, if you have it on your driver's license, a copy of a lease, even back and forth conversations via text or email. If she locks you out, or in any way denies you access to your rented space call the police immediately and have that proof for them. Often best to call a non-emergency number, but if you feel there's any emergent concerns that she may harm you, or for any reasonable reason you urgently need access to your apartment it should be perfectly fine to call 911.
Sorry everything went down this way for you, as a landlord one of the things that pisses me off the most are other landlords who treat their tenants like shit. Spend too much time here and you'll get an outsized opinion of bad landlords, but keep up, good ones are out there!
In regards to the verbal lease\verbal contract for renting, if a contract is for something that cannot be fulfilled in one year, it has to be written to be valid. Your agreement at most would be enforceable from the last point she acknowledged it as valid which probably by accepting the most recent rent payment, and only up to one year from that. At worst, you're just a month to month tenant.
You cannot reasonably speed this up. There is currently a large back log from the pandemic in almost every court system slowing it down.
That’s just the start of it… she’s filed Retaliatory small claims suits and served me notices with incorrect false information on them the list goes on and on.
Update: I filed a small claims suit against my landlord, to which they served me a Retaliatory notice to vacate in 30 days … how can I waive that notice in lieu of telling them to file the UD sooner than 30 days I wanna go to court because this landlord is particularly scummy and I want to show her just how scummy she is in a court of law where a judge can tell her how deplorable her actions are and what a stain on humanity she is as a “person” Although she is more like a gargoyle than a person.
Trying to recoup cost of materials for the repair because during repair she was the contractor and never had building inspector come and then called building inspector now on herself and he’s making her remove drywall so she’s trying to say I have to reimburse her for the material she’s literally the dumbest person ever in the history of time lol😆.
She is saying I have to vacate because she doesn’t want to pay for electrician to come fix the electrical that she hired them to come uninstall. Also my lease term doesn’t expire until October 2023.
On what grounds is she saying that you have to vacate? When does your lease term expire? What was the nature of your suit? If she still hasn't provided you with power, you may be able to go to a reasonably priced hotel and have her reimburse you for it.