In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I haven't been to a ground-breaking since my days as a junior reporter at a local daily newspaper in the early '90s, but I would DEFINITELY want to cover this one.
Every single one of his “gaffs” has been exactly that kind of Clint Eastwoodesque old man obscenity that’s, while uncouth, still cool.
(Actually my favorite is when he tried to greet a crowd in Poland in Polish and essentially said “I’m here to fuck and I’m not going home”, which might be the funniest fucking thing I’ve ever heard).
My local paper growing up, outside the small city that is our state Capitol, was a Pulitzer winning local paper as recently as 2010. In 2010 their circulation numbers were 500,000 weekly. It was the largest paper outside our two major metros. Their maximum offering is now 3 days a week delivery.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I don't think, even Late Stage Dark Brandon, would disparage the voters like that. It would be too alienating.
Shit all over the idiot GOP members of congress, sure. But he's really trying to be everyone's president.
It’s definitely true. Outside of major cities it’s a weekly distribution, or even online only. Headcount’s are slashed and reporters are covering 3x as many beats as they used to.
Print media is dead, and if I hadn’t switched majors to engineering I probably would be too lol (lol but also crying inside).
For those who forgot or never knew: Newspapers were printed versions of /r/news and /r/politics, but written by folks who actually studied, investigated and understood events and subjects first-hand (or at least second-hand) before trying to share the details with others. Local newspapers even covered things that might actually affect your own life. It was a crazy time.