HOAs generally have an obscene amount of power. You agreed to not park on the street but you did anyway. It is very likely they can fine you for this.
Painting your house pink with purple polka-dots is legal. You have an agreement with your HOA to not do this and they can fine you if you do. This is basically the same type of situation.
Think of it this way: they're fining you for breaking the agreement. They are not issuing you a parking ticket.
They aren't trying to issue you a parking citation for parking on the street. They're trying to fine you for breaking your agreement with them.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
I understood what I signed up for when I moved to an HOA community. However, throughout the many years of living in this county, HOA's has called onto law enforcement to enforce any violations regarding to parking. I even spoke to many law enforcement in the county who says the HOA cannot fine me.
But it's not, the only non gated communities in my county that could fine cars for parking on the road had to petition to install an ordinance which enforces the no parking on the roads. And the only personel who could fine them were code enforcement or law enforcement.
Drop the jurisdiction and legal/criminal aspect of this. This is purely a civil matter. You broke an agreement. As I said, HOAs tend to have an obscene amount of power over their residents.
But how can I be in violation when the bylaws does not even differentiate the difference between private roads, or public roads. Normally HOA's can only enforce violations on private roads. Streets that are publicly owned and maintained are generally under the authority of the government, and an HOA cannot interfere with that authority, except to the extent authorized by law. I believe these letters are coming from the HOA president themselves and once it gets turned over to the Attorney they should tell them it's a non enforceable matter.
Once again, the root difference is they are not enforcing a parking violation. They are enforcing a civil agreement that you broke that just happens to involve parking.
The police aren't expected to be experts in civil law, only criminal. They're right: they cannot fine you for parking on the road. They CAN, however, fine you for breaking the civil agreement in which you agreed to not park there.
The HOA cannot fine a non-resident for parking there. They have absolutely no power over non-residents. They can, however, fine you for breaking the agreement that you won't park there.
That sounds like some double Jeopardy for civil cases. So any violation committed would be punished twice. For example, if you painted your house pink you would be fined for the house and as well for violating the agreement. That makes no sense.