You give him 30-day written "notice to vacate" and specify the date/time his tenancy ends (e.g. November 14th at midnight). If he's not gone by then, you file an eviction lawsuit in court. After you win that, you arrange for a sheriff with a court order to remove him (if he hasn't left). You cannot illegally evict him (e.g. change the locks, dump his stuff outside).
I'd prefer not to tarnish his ability to rent in the future is why I was hoping to avoid the legal process.
His behavior isn't relevant, which is good, means he can't argue he's cleaned up his act to get out of the termination.
Doesn't matter. He's still a tenant and you're his landlord. You just also happen to be his roommate. Having said that, this is a family situation and having an eviction on his record could hurt the possibility of him renting in the future. One way that landlords get around the hassle of evicting someone and it incentivizes the person to leave so they don't get evicted is to offer money to have them move out before you take legal action against them. That may be an alternative here.
Hopefully the formal written notice will be enough to snap some sense into him and cause him to move out of his own free will. Other wise you end up with a tough decision to make, let him stay or take him to court and evict him.
Serving him with a written order to leave is the first step in the legal eviction process, but that step has no way of impacting his future as long as you don't make it to the second step.
You can't go to the court and file for eviction unless you have already given proper notice. But giving proper notice does not require you to go to the court.
Worst-case scenario is court, goes on his record. This is entirely up to him. The written notice to vacate is to give someone time to get their act together and get out. It doesn't have to be 30 days, it could be more. You could give him 90 days (whatever you do, do it in writing) and offer him $XYZ when he's fully moved out. Lots of options.
But yes, there are options that won't require me taking the hard road, give him some cash and help him find a place.
I just want to be prepared for any contingency, because if I try the "nice" road and ask nicely and he tells me to pound sand in 30 days, I'd have to start the legal side at that point. I'll try to do both at once, and may do a cross-post to parenting as well.
The eviction will hopefully not have to happen, but I'll be serving him a 30-day notice tonight to go ahead and run out the clock should it become necessary.
All you have to do is to be able to prove in court (if necessary) that he received it. You could have it served, you could tape it to his door and take a picture with a timestamp, you could ask for him to sign it. Anything that won't leave doubt.
He's not. I'm up at 5:00 am every day. I just expect him to wake himself up so I don't have to walk upstairs and spend 30+ minutes trying to get him to get ready for work just so that I can be late for work every day.