Alcohol was free flowing and plentiful in ante-bellum America, and although older histories often seem inclined to emphasize the limited drinking within enslaved communities and the sobriety of the enslaved, in point of fact this was little different when it came to the lives of enslaved persons, who drank with relative frequency as well, but often less conspicuously.
As far as being officially allowed to drink, few enslavers allowed continual access to alcohol for their enslaved people as excessive drunkenness was something they sought to prevent, but they would at points in the year make booze available. Holidays and celebrations were common reasons to distribute the drinks, or as incentives during particularly grueling period in the work year such as harvest time. This all done in spite of laws which often existed to restrict the providing of drink to the enslaved, and in such public festivities where drink was being provided by the enslavers, there was an expectation that one wouldn't get too out of hand. One could drink as much as one wanted, but was nevertheless expected to not cause trouble when drunk.
And of course when booze wasn't being provided to them, enslaved people were quite capable of supplying it for themselves, whether through theft of the stores, or through making their own on the sly for their own parties and celebrations. Within the enslaved community, the acquisition of alcohol, and the consumption of it privately made for important rituals in affirming their own identities and independence. One formerly enslaved man, recalling such gathering, told his interviewer:
As for what was being drunk, while 'proper' alcohol might be provided such as wine or whiskey, quite a few options were made 'in house' so to speak, either with approval of the enslavers... or not. Cider was very common, as were fruit brandies made from things like apples or peaches. Such products might even be made in large batches, and made for sale by the plantation. More limited to the enslaved communities' private production, plum wine was quite popular, and various beers made from persimmon or honey locust. One former enslaved man recalled the recipe for a beer thus:
Not quite as appealing sounding as a nice Kölsch, perhaps... Whiskey as well was common, not just for parties and the like either. In the period being seen as medicinal, some recollections note enslavers who would ration out some every night to their enslaved people in the belief it would keep them healthy.
As noted though, it was often illegal, but this simply added to the value for the enslaved men (this generally reflecting masculine activities) in partaking. For whites of the period, drunkenness among the enslaved population was something to be feared though, as they too could see how it related to the assertion of self and independence, but that being a strong negative for them, and of course how this could lead to that greatest of all southern fears, servile insurrection. Quite a number of laws about alcohol and the black population of the south were infact directly connected to rebellion, such as a South Carolina law passed in the wake of the Nat Turner Rebellion which forbade any free African-Americans from producing alcohol (them being seen as a common source for it in the enslaved community).
And while I don't want to say they were right to be concerned, as, bluntly, the enslaved were entirely within their rights to rise up in revolt if they damn well wanted to, but Turner's planning was hatched over illicit drinking! Although of course on the more mundane side, as it can do in any community, excessive drinking and alcoholism by enslaved persons could be disruptive and abusive within their own enslaved community, so we ought not go too far in romanticizing it. In any case though, the main take away ought to be that alcohol was readily available to enslaved persons in the period, both legally and illegally.
Lussana, Sergio A.. My Brother Slaves: Friendship, Masculinity, and Resistance in the Antebellum South. University Press of Kentucky, 2016.
Wyatt-Brown, Bertram "The Mask of Obedience: Male slave psychology in the Old South" in Society and Culture in the Slave South. ed. J. William Harris. Routledge, 1992.
Thank you so much for yet another amazing answer. I have a quick follow-up question that is tangentially related to my original post.
Did enslavers typically attempt to shut down illicit alcohol production by enslaved people, or was it more common to look the other way? Also, did enslaved women drink as well or only the men?
Yes, women would drink too, but what record we have indicate it in less quantity and with less frequency. The events when alcohol was being provided, such as harvest time, or Christmas, everyone would be partaking, but women are noted to generally be consuming less. The illicit drinking though was very much a masculine activity, and recollections of that veer heavily towards men doing so in their own socializations independent of the women in the enslaved community.
I think it is well illustrated in an 1860 petition made to the Virginia State Assembly looking for harsher treatment of those who were selling alcohol to enslaved people (an issue not only because of the effects, but also because they often financed it with petty theft), because "[alcohol is] the great and most operative causes of the corrupting of the habits and morals of slaves, and of infusing into their minds discontent and the spirit of insubordination, and consequently of producing discomfort and unhappiness to themselves”.
I would need to go back and check to be sure if those specific quotes originated there, but either way, you might be familiar with the WPA (Work Projects Administration) interviews conducted in the 1930s, which is the best way to illustrate what was going on here, although the issue is pervasive beyond only the WPA interviews.
It was a large project which saw interviewers go out and find elderly black people to interview about their memories of enslavement. Many of the interviews are written in that way, and it isn't without some controversy, at least now looking back because there is a very high correlation in the way the interviews were written down and who was doing the interviewing. White interviewers were more likely to try and imitate they way they thought the subject themselves talked. Black interviewers were more likely to simply write it down in plain English. The former speaks to a long history of racism, and white imitation of black speech patterns such as the minstrel shows of the 19th century. The interviews are all freely available through the Library of Congress, and . A much more involved look at the matter would be:
As for how enslavers treated it, there isn't really any one, single thread there. Some were going to be basically fine with casting a blind eye to it as long as it wasn't creating problems for their control over the enslaved workforce, and others were going to be much harsher about it. The biggest issue wasn't the drinking per se but rather what went on alongside it, as it often meant illicit meetings outside white control, possibly even stealing about in the night to visit other men on other nearby plantations without a pass. As mentioned before, it was in this vein, the expressions of independence and what that suggested, that were the key issue.
In your first post you mentioned that an enslaved person spoke with an interviewer. Would it have been common for the interviewer to write what the person said verbatim or would they have "translated" (for lack of a better word) it into Standard American English for publication in newspapers and such?