In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
On the same day I listened to a NYT podcast and a 538 podcast - the NYT podcast went hard on "it's a close race and Hochul made a huge mistake in not campaigning" and the 538 podcast said "it's a data point. She's still up by 9 points in the model. Let's see what their next poll says before we put much weight in it.".
With 81% reporting, Hochul is up 54.1% to 45.9%. That's an 8.2 point lead. Looks like the polls I saw were more accurate than the ones my father saw.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
What I really need to do one day is look up the ownership of the local TV stations my father gets. He's always claiming that it can't just be a "FOX says" thing because he looks at these other stations and they are reporting the same thing. It could be a case of him hearing what he wants to hear. He's notoriously bad about that. If you don't disagree with him hard enough, he assumes you've agreed with him and will use you as "proof that even liberals agree with the Republicans now." However, it could also be that some of his local stations are owned by Sinclair and thus parrot far right talking points just like FOX does.
Earlier, my father insisted that Zeldin was ahead in the polls and would likely win. I insisted that the recent polls I saw put her 7 points ahead. He insisted that I was wrong and they were probably liberal polls.
I blame the NY Times. They ran one poll where Zeldin was within 5 points and, rather than accept that it might be an outlier, went NUTS about it.
My guess was that there was one of the Republican polls (like Rasmussen) that always take the results and then add to the Republican total because they assume that the Republicans have to do better. FOX likely reported on that and my father saw it and said that Zeldin was going to win. It could also have been FOX spinning the already spun NYT's "it's a close race" though.
So many people don't realize that NY has a ton of small tons that are all very red. Everything north of saratoga and west of the capital area is mostly crumbling farm towns.