I'm only familiar with Truly as an alcoholic seltzer beverage that comes in skinny cans, which would not be the sort of thing you store in a glove compartment while driving, but might hide in the glove compartment when approached by police. The police could choose to cite all persons in the car for open container possession, but might have reasonably focused on you because of the inference that you stashed the drinks in the glove compartment.
Did they issue you both citations, in addition to the open container citation issued to you ? What precisely is the citation for ? If there is a Vehicle Code or other specific law noted on the citation, that will be useful.
The terms of your probation probably include "do not commit any new crimes". If your probation is alcohol-related, then you might also have some restrictions on your alcohol use or possession.
Edit: your Reddit post history is almost all about drug and alcohol probation violations, including multiple DUI offenses, including having a SCRAM ankle monitor. It is more likely than not that an open container violation will violate the terms of your probation.
I am under 21 but i was not aware that the drinks were in her car, But i still got cited for it. The cops didn’t arrest me or anything If they thought i wouldn’t been drinking wouldn’t they have taken me to jail seeing that i’m on probation?
I'm sure it is frustrating to be charged with an alcohol violation you did not commit, but the circumstantial evidence against you is strong.
You can argue the defense that you were not "knowingly" in "constructive possession" of the open containers of alcohol because they were concealed there without your knowledge.
If I were your attorney, I would advise you that the totality of the circumstances make that claim difficult to believe, including because of the rarity of the practice of placing open cans of alcoholic beverages in the closed glove compartment of a moving or parked car. The argument would be much more credible if the containers were sealed, or empty. Your history of drug and alcohol violations isn't evidence of this new violation, but it will very probably weigh into your probation officer's decision if not the judge's decision on the open container citation.
If I were your attorney, I would probably argue that the "traffic stop" and request for registration documents that led to the discovery of the open containers was not justified, since you were parked. That could allow the evidence of the open containers to be excluded.
Whether or not your probation officer takes action is really up to them. If you're still on a SCRAM ankle bracelet, and it didn't go off, then I'd say your chances are better to argue that you weren't drinking and therefore didn't know the cans were in the glove compartment.
You can certainly discuss this violation with your PO. I don't know about your history, or your past violations, or what your PO thinks is the most important for your sobriety and for the safety of the community.
Because of the COVID pandemic, most police forces are trying very hard not to jail people who are no threat to the community. Many patrol officers are also doing their best to not get close enough to smell your breath. So they cited you for a violation that they had easy evidence to support and that minimized the risk to them and you, but still enforced the law.
In general, POs are interested in your success in not re-offending, and in the safety of the community. But they see so much self-indulgent and destructive behavior, and get lied to SO MUCH, that they often have a very low tolerance for bullshit.