Ah, this is something I know quite a lot about, so hopefully I can provide a good answer, although its rather complicated and messy.
The short answer is that it meant 'the common law', the body of legal precedent which had built up over the centuries. The slightly longer answer is that it depends who was discussing it and for what purpose they were invoking it.
To actually attempt to answer your question of what, historically, is being referred to, the most common answer is the Saxon kingdoms. Early modern English writers were very interested in the Saxons, who, many of them argued, represented the 'true' English constitution which was later subverted by Norman absolutism.
While people across a broad range of political and constitutional views agreed on the existence of an ancient constitution of some sort, its exact nature was contested, and some historians have argued that the turmoil of the mid 17th century was about defining this 'ancient constitution'. If you want a book which will explain this better than I can, I would recommend Glenn Burgess's The Politics of the Ancient Constitution, which is a bit old now but still stands up very well in my opinion.
Exactly how far this argument was taken often depended on who was making it. The idea of a tyrannical 'Norman yoke' was a popular one amongst Civil War era radicals such as the Levellers, but a wide range of writers invoked the idea of Saxon precedents, not always necessarily in such radical ways.
There were several aspects to the 'Saxon constitution' which appealed to early modern writers, particularly those opposed to Charles I. I will caution that I can't say whether any of this is a true reflection of Saxon history, as that is not something I know very much at all about, aside from through the prism of how early modern writers discussed it, but the point is that this is what contemporaries believed, or professed to believe for rhetorical reasons, the Saxon constitutions involved.
The Saxon kingdoms, they argued, were not absolute monarchies in the continental style, but mixed monarchies where the king ruled in concert with a proto-parliament (referred to as a Witenaġemot, though the historicity of this term isn't clear). The appeal of such arguments for Parliamentarians seeking to restrain the king is obvious.
Saxon precedent was often also invoked in religious discussions. One of the most important aspects of the English Civil Wars is that they represented a crisis of the relationship between religious and civil power. In many ways the Civil Wars were a contest between different models of church and state, such as the Episcopal model favoured by the Royalists, the Presbyterianism of the Covenanters, and Cromwell's Erastianism.
Saxon councils, it was argued, were composed of both lay rulers and clergy, who cooperated without infringing on each other's respective spheres. In a time when the question of the relationship of church and state was one of great concern, precedents like this which could be invoked as a potential solution had obvious value. This was also a time of rampant fear and hatred towards Catholics, and suspected crypto-Catholics, and in this context the Saxon church was invoked as being an example of how 'true' churches functioned before their corruption by the forces of popery.
Saxon precedents were by no means the only historical precedents which writers looked to in this period, with some seeking to emulate, for example, the Hebraic republic, the Roman republic or the patristic church, but they are probably the most commonly associated with the 'ancient constitution'.
A similar process occurred at the same time in Scotland, where 'Covenanters' sought to defend their Presbyterian church and mixed-monarchy constitution which had, in essence, emerged relatively recently in the Scottish Reformation of the second half of the 16th century. Some invoked the concept of Pictish precedents, others a continuity with the Christian 'barbarian' kingdoms of late antiquity. One of the leading Scottish religious and political figures of this period, George Buchanan, was as much a historian as he was anything else, and used his histories as defences of the contemporary Scottish constitution.
Great answer, I always find the belief in Norman tyranny quite funny being that the system introduced by the Normans gave us Lords with local power bases and interests that lead to the conflicts resulting in Magna Carta and Provisions of Oxford. Who knows how absolute the Anglo Saxons may have got with their tenancy to Byzantine style political murders.
Can I ask a follow up: how big a role did the Magna Carta play? Was that seen as part of the tradition of ancient constitutions? Or was it seen as Norman/Papist innovation?
Good question, though to be honest its not one I really feel confident answering in detail. Fingers crossed someone who knows more might be able to come along and answer because I'd love to know too!
I was under the impression that Saxon Church was Catholic (at least in name). Can you explain why anti-Catholic forces would hold them up as "an example of how 'true' churches functioned before their corruption by the forces of popery"?
I have certainly come across sources which discuss the Magna Carta as part of England's constitution of limited monarchy, but in my experience Saxon examples are more common. This might be because I have mostly dealt with sources from the Presbyterian side of things, who were predisposed towards Saxon examples because they commonly portrayed Saxon religious councils as 'proto-presbyteries'.
I can definitely speak to one example though, which is the Anglican clergyman and scholar Jeremiah Stephens, who appealed in 1660 to the precedent of Magna Carta as protecting the English church, and therefore guaranteeing the rights of bishops to be a part of government. This argument doesn't really make a whole lot of sense when you consider that the Anglican church didn't exist at the time of Magna Carta, though because of this its a great example of how claiming historical continuity was massively important for polemical and rhetorical purposes.
In regards to the 'English Church', the text of the Magna Carta does indeed preserve the liberties of the 'Anglicana ecclesia', literally, the 'English church'. This wasn't the Anglican Church we know today, but there were more than a few continuities. Many of the titles remained, for example: there was still an 'Archbishop of Canterbury', after all. My expertise is in medieval history, but I am guessing the diocesan boundaries looked similar, not to mention the very concept of an episcopate. So from a medievalist's perspective, I can understand why Stephens would see the Anglican church of his day as more or less the same institution as the 'Anglicana ecclesia' safeguarded in the Magna Carta.
Based on you calling them "proto-presbyterians" I'm guessing they were nominally papist but exercised a lot of independence from the Catholic church in practice?
While some protestant groups in the 17th century, such as the Quakers, essentially wanted to start a new church from scratch, most argued that while their church was reformed, there were still certain continuities with the past Catholic church leading back to the original apostolic church.
Describing their Church as 'ancient and reformed' was common amongst Anglicans and even certain Presbyterians, the idea being that they aimed to keep the good and extirpate the corruption.
By this logic, the Saxon church could be held up as an example of how the church was before much of the 'popish' corruption set in.