Byzantine is a neologism entirely, they did indeed consider themselves exclusively to be Roman, and not only in a limited fashion or as a successor state, but as a direct continuation of a state that had merely lost part of it's former territory.
There was little need for reconciliation, as Christiany had taken root far before the fall of the western empire. Though that new faith definitely shook the Roman empire (and is considered one of many factors of it's fall, because it damaged the former belief in the divine nature of imperators), that crisis occurred well before the fall of the western empire. When Rome fell to the germanic 'barbarians', it was already a Christian city, practicing what we would see today as Orthodox Christianity (as it was pre-Schism).
Also, it's important to keep in mind that the notion of duality between Rome and Constantinople existed well before 476; the Greek half of the empire had long wholly embraced the empire and was in many ways dominant well before the fall of Rome. The eastern Rome considered itself the true seat of power even before the fall of the west. It's not surprising they clung to their identity afterwards, and if anything, our use of 'Byzantine' today has more to do with the politics in western Europe and specifically the Holy Roman Empire later on. In the west, there was an obvious desire post-schism to reduce the importance of the eastern claims in order to make the Holy Roman empire and the Papacy more legitimate. Terminology like 'the empire of the Greeks' was used in the west, but people living in Constantinople would have considered that offensive and belittling. The use of 'Byzantine' instead of 'Roman' would insult them still if any were still around to complain about it.
In short, while there was a real conflict between Roman pagan beliefs and Christianity, that conflict long predated 476, so it did not impact faith-wise what we see in modern terms as the successor state of the Roman empire. For a thousand years afterwards, it's mainly religious conflict (based largely on what could be seen as Papal overreach and forgeries) that eroded the view that Byzantium wasn't Rome anymore in the west; it never eroded that view in the east until the fall.
Yes, that would be just an opinion - one that has not much currency in contemporary academic discourse. It was argued most notably by Edward Gibbon in his Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
So if one accepts at least these two points (cult of the emperor perhaps less important religiously, and transformation of expression of royal authority in 3rd century), it becomes hard to argue that Christianity contributed to the fall of the Roman empire by eating away at the power of the empire. On the contrary, it has been emphatised that successive emperors from Constantine onwards have cannily exploited new sources of power as derived from the Christian God, starting with Constantine's ingenious amalgamation of pagan and Christian belief and in some ways culminating in the 'holy war' waged by Heraclius on the Persian empire, embracing the iconography of the Christian empire as a second Israel with the emperor and God at its helm. Note the relationship between secular and religious authority in Byzantium is a complicated one, with the emperor often legislating on ecclesiastical matter throughout church councils in a way unparalleled in the West - it used to be described as caesaropapism, although this model has been discredited for not being extremely accurate or nuanced.
On the contrary, current research suggests that while there were some birthing pains concerning the transformation of religious authority of the emperors, note that it has been argued that imperial power also declined because of the non-noble origin of the millitary emperors such as Diocletian (Peter Sarris, for instance, would argue that it manifests in the so-called crisis of the third century, and is solved by appropriating the language of oriental divine monarchies - in dress, elaborate court ceremonies and art. For this, see for instance B. Walden on the tetrarchic image.) It has also been suggested that the cults of 'divine emperor' of the principate were perhaps on occasions a bit more about political gesturing than genuine belief (note the famous remarks on pumpkinification of Claudius), although it surely depends on time, place and individual.
Do we know how the rise of Christianity affected the founding traditions of the Romans at all? Did they create new mythos of thier origins?