In other words, he knows full well it wasn't a loan. Loans have definite repayment terms. Even the sloppiest interpersonal loan consists, at least, of a promise to pay back the principal eventually.
This is kind of a question of relationship strategy, at this point. If you value the relationship, it might be worth digging into this. If you don't, or if you think his attempt to extract money from you is over the line, then the ball's in his court to take you to court, to prove to a judge that the loan exists, to overcome your counterarguments (gift letters, testimony, and the like), and to collect payment from you - all over a few thousand dollars, it sounds like.
A month or two after she moves out her dad says I’m not going to ask you for the money, I’ll let you decide on when or what you think is right to pay me back.
If this is an amount of money that you can comfortably repay, I'd repay him. Tell you are doing this because you want to repay his kindness and not because of any legal obligation.
Yeah, definitely wasn’t a loan. Again, I’m the guy that would pay anyone back if I needed or asked for the money. If the tables were turned and I was the one that ruined the relationship I would be the bigger man and give him his money he provided. There was not a gift letter or legal agreement of any kind.
Legally, he has a very weak claim against you. It has nothing to do with the fact that he has plenty of money and is building a lake house, though. It has to do with he would have the burden of proof to show that it was a loan and not a gift. Having a weak claim wouldn't stop him from filing a lawsuit against you. He might be able to argue that it was an advance on his payment for a wedding that didn't happen, so the advance should be repaid. I.E. if the relationship had continued, he would have recouped the advance by paying lesss for the wedding. Tough sell in court, but given that this will likely end up in small claims court, who knows. Additionally, who knows what his daughter is telling him about why the relationship ended and what her testimony will be about the terms of the loan/gift/advance.
In the interest of being fair to the man, it seems he expected you two to get married, which didn't happen. Hence the "this is coming out of the wedding funds." The wedding did not happen, and so said pot he would have paid for the wedding, did not occur. It seems, therefore, it was a conditional gift. He probably thought this would be the marital home for his daughter as well.
I never promised to pay him back. He was giving us the money to put towards the house. He wrote me a check and basically was saying this is coming out of the wedding funds. Well the wedding never happened with her because we’re not together any longer. I didn’t need his money and had plenty of money in my savings to cover what he did give me.
I thought he was a good guy. Then to have the balls to bring this up right after I get married and moving? He could have asked for the money 2 years ago, but never really did.