What do you mean by "again" - did she previously have guardianship over you as an adult, or is she simply referring to being your parent when you were a minor?
You don't just go "get" guardianship that easily; it's a process, even if it was previously established, that you will actively be a part of. The big thing for you is to make sure that you are on top of things - don't sign random paperwork she sends you, don't ignore legal communications, things like that.
So yes I was referring to her having custody of me when I was a minor. She and my father went to family court when I was 1 they never married.
Being a custodial parent and having guardianship over a vulnerable adult are two wildly different things, no matter how similar they appear on the surface. Obtaining guardianship is a months or years long process that involve demonstrating to the court that you are unable to care for yourself.
This sounds like a scare tactic, or a guilt trip, more than a credible threat. You should work on setting boundaries with her since you know that she's manipulative.
Ok thank you for the advice, much appreciated. I will follow it. This is just a pain and especially at this time it’s all overwhelming to deal with at this time so once again thank you for your time.
Yes I know this thank you for your response though. This is not the first time she has threatened me with this. As I said in my post when I was younger I had ideations of suicide, she was worried and threatened me with it until I started my in home care for my grandmother.
When your mom files for guardianship you will receive a notice of hearing. It is vital that you go to this hearing and contest her petition. You have the right to ask the court for a lawyer to represent you at this hearing, or to hire one yourself if you can afford it. Legal aid (above) may be able to help you ask the court for a lawyer. You can also try for assistance with this.
Suicidality is not a reason for guardianship. It is considered a reason for involuntary commitment. Same things apply - ask the court for a lawyer for your hearing. Tell all police and psychiatric personnel that you are not suicidal. Stay calm and reasonable, even if provoked. At the hearing do what your lawyer says, but know that the goal is to show that you are not currently danger to yourself or others.