Courts, jails, and prisons regularly arrange for the secure transportation of inmates who are needed to testify as witnesses in trials.
It's easy if they're in the same jurisdiction; there's a nice dry elevated walkway tunnel between my County's jail and courthouse. We shuttle inmates from the other regional jail daily.
It's harder if they're further away or in different jurisdictions, of course. I'm looking forward to seeing Michael Avenatti have to ride the Federal prison bus from Oregon to California.
The person's attorney is hopefully going to advise them carefully about how they will testify and what they can refuse to answer on 5th Amendment grounds.
Alleged victims and assailants are generally kept well-separated in court. But there's no reason that being accused of rape will prevent a person from being able to testify. Court appearances are a general exception to no-contact orders.
Thanks for the clarifications. It sounds to me like you're dealing with two related and reciprocal crimes, for which both parties are being prosecuted separately.
Decisions to testify, and arguments about the credibility of a witness, are tactics for trial attorneys.
Just because someone is charged with a crime doesn't mean they cannot testify or won't be allowed to by the court. It might mean that their attorney advises them very strongly not to.
From what I understand the incarcerated person doesn’t have an attorney as this person can’t afford one or his bond…it would be just the prosecutor on his side. Would they prosecutor advise him not to testify? And does he has to be subpoenaed if he is incarcerated?
I can't tell you what the prosecutor will do. Maybe they'll try to make their case on the DV assault just based on witness reports, police testimony, and non-testimonial evidence of injuries to the victim.
I believe that all they need is a judge's order to the jail or prison to produce the detained person to testify in the trial, rather than a subpoena to order them to appear. Texas criminal procedure isn't my thing, so I'll step aside and wait for Texans to weigh in.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.