No, it's not the landlord's responsibility. It's the tenant's responsibility. The landlord could get involved, but this isn't the kind of situation where they're forced to get involved -- in fact, even without the ESA designation, getting involved is a lose/lose for them.
A tenant's lease is between them and the landlord. The landlord can choose to enforce whatever provisions of the lease they want.
Even assuming that the tenant with Trapper the Irritating Terrier Scoundrel ("TITS") has the exact same lease terms as you do, you are not a party to the lease between TITS' owner and the landlord. So just as TITS' owner couldn't point at your lease and demand that the landlord enforce a specific provision, you can't point at the lease between TITS' owner and the landlord and demand that a provision be enforced.
You are within your rights to keep pushing the landlord to do something about TITS (to a point -- there's a line past which you'd be harassing them), but if you want resolution, my advice to you is to reach out to animal control, the police (non-emergency, please), any anyone else you can think of that might take issue with a dog yapping because it's locked in an apartment by itself all day.
I cannot stress enough the power of numbers here -- if three or four or more people start complaining a lot, eventually someone will take action.
For what it’s worth, the dog is actually on their balcony when it is barking. My balcony is almost directly across the courtyard from their balcony. There are many other dogs that bark but only for a minute or two when they do and it’s maybe a couple times a day. Not disturbing in the least. This is the only dog with a very loud and constant bark, even a high pitched whistling, that goes on excessively disturbing my sleep and work, and general peace and quiet. They put the dog out on the balcony to poop and pee and leave it out their while it yelps to be let back in and just ignore it.
I would be calling animal control and animal abuse agencies every day. If you have neighbors who are also bothered by it, encourage them to do the same thing. If it's using the restroom on the actual balcony, call around to the code / health / housing departments to see if that violates any kind of code.
As far as speaking to neighbors about it, I’d like to if I encountered my neighbors enough. I can’t for the life of me believe that I’m the only one complaining about it, but the property managers certainly act like I am the only one. The one time I ever spoke to a neighbor about another issue on the property he told me that he was afraid to complain about anything due to fear of being evicted. I told him that’s not legal if they did but he said he’d rather not even take the chance. It’s possible that a lot of other people simply don’t know their rights and are afraid to speak up. That is, if I’m actually the only one complaining.
Oh I see. I’ve thought about that but then I figured that if they aren’t willing to complain on their own out of fear or whatever, then they probably aren’t likely to respond to a note about it. I also thought that maybe it would get around to the on site property manager (who happens to be friends with some of the tenants here) and they would see it as conspiring.
Unfortunately, through out this whole process, both the on-site property managers (husband and wife) have treated my complaints as unfounded and unwarranted. Like I’m someone who just complains about things. Like I’m a grumpy old lady.
They both are quiet lazy and would rather write me off than simply handle the situation. They are also family of the President of the property management group, so they act like spoiled brats because they can. 🤷🏽‍♀️.