Early uses of America specifically referencing what later became the USA exist from colonial time. For example, when Benjamin Franklin offered his Albany Plan of Union in July of 1754, it included the term "America";.
He literally meant "British North America" by America. This wasn't even the first time Franklin used the term;.
Here he's a bit more specific in saying "his Majesty's Dominions in America," but the place is America and the specificity is to his Majesty's Dominions there. So he is again calling the land "America." But this wasn't the first time.
Alexander Spotswood was larger than life. He dispatched Maynard to capture and kill Blackbeard the pirate, he "found" the Shenandoah Valley, he was instrumental in introducing dancing and balls to Virginia elites, and he served as a very early governor, being the first to reside in the governors palace at Williamsburg (technically, though, he was merely a Lt Governor, but the actual governor never visited Virginia). He was also appointed a position Franklin would later hold - Deputy Postmaster General of North America - and from 1730-1739. As such he had to deal with local postmasters. In 1737 Franklin became postmaster for Philly, which gives us;.
If you saw my post on the Lost Colony of Roanoke a couple weeks ago you may remember Capt.'s Amadas and Barlowe "found" Roanoke Island, which Raleigh named Virginia (which of course included much more than just the Island of Roanoke). It was on their recommendation that the first colony was settled there, unbeknownst to them dooming the subsequent efforts to colonize by Raleigh in America. But that wasn't even the first time the future colonial attempt called it America, which came from the queen herself in Raleighs Charter a month earlier (Mar 1584);.
He meant the continent, obviously, but the title of the letter is A letter from William Penn, poprietary and governour of Pennsylvania in America, to the Committee of the Free Society of Traders of that province residing in London containing a general description of the said province, its soil, air, water, seasons, and produce... (actual the title keeps going a bit).
So you get the point that Anglo culture referred to the land as America since before they ever showed up. This can keep getting kicked back to the map of the early 1500s that first named the place America (the Waldseemüller map, 1507).
When did it get specifically attached to the USA? 1776. It was all up in the Articles of Association (Oct 1774);.
While we cant be certain which draft included it first, both of our earliest documents use the term USA. John Dickinson's Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union, drafted June 1776;.
So they had already clearly defined themselves as Americans, specifically referring to British North America (since they didn't have any claim to Spanish North America or anywhere else on the two continents outside British colonies signed up in the Association). But, there was no USA yet.
This is a great answer, though it may be helpful to point out that the term "United States of America" predates the Declaration of Independence and the formation of the new nation by at least six months.
The Constitution just continued usage already established by an earlier congress. Interestingly, Joseph Galloway's Plan of Union (1774) uses the term America and would have given us partial autonomy;.
The AoC were accepted in Nov of 1777 with a slight wording change to Art I but keeping the name the same. The DoI was officially accepted in finalized form on July 4th, 1776, so it established the name United States of America, officially, in the heading;.
And the next year (1775) Dr Franklin introduced something more specific. Had we opted for his plan, it would have been a different America;.
The earliest known use of the phrase is by Stephen Moylan, in a letter written on January 2, 1776. Moylan was an acting secretary to Gen. George Washinon at the time.
The letter by Moylan is addressed to Joseph Reed, an aide-de-camp of Washinon's, who was on leave back in his home state of Massachusetts at the time. In the letter, Moylan proposes that he be sent to Spain as a minister for the not-yet-an-independent-country:
The historical thought these days is that the name was not prescriptive - it was not coined by anybody at the Second Continental Congress. Rather, it was probably a name that had already been floating around in American culture since at least late 1775. So when the Second Continental Congress adopted its usage in documents in June and July 1776, they were just using a phrase that was already known to them, and already had some popular support among the public.
The original letter is held by the New-York Historical Society (halfway down , if the link works correctly), and the NYHS has also detailing the search for the earliest use of the name.
The funny thing is, when this letter was "discovered" in 2013 as the first usage of the name, it was actually a re-discovery. It soon came to light that historian Curtis P. Nettles had already made the discovery back in 1951, and entitled George Washinon and American Independence.
It seems to have been derived from the United Colonies of North America, changing colonies to states and dropping north entirely. We see United Colonies to represent the young nation in numerous 1774 writings and the Congress of 1775 officially labels us as the UCoNA, a week or two before Franklin introduced his articles including the same title. So it would seem sometime between July of 1775 and winter of the same it transitioned to the current form.
It's also interesting and noteworthy that, while it came after the Moylan letter, the Virginia Gazette published the term months before the official documents were drafted (in April of 1776).
Yes, exactly, another piece of evidence that it probably wasn't a Congressional invention from mid-1776, but instead was a name already somewhat familiar in the public consciousness.
By the revolution this had become split into North and South by the American perspective, and we see Jefferson referencing the two distinctly in 1786 while serving in France;.
Getting back to pre indepence, we have writings that name places further south as America also. From the Darien Scheme (1690s);.