Also...do not refund. As noted it will be recalled when the fraud is detected. If the buyer contacts you, tell them to recall it.
It's very possible you will not have a choice in the matter as the money is likely from a fraudulent source. You do not have to manually reverse the charge on your end, but you should expect that transaction to be reversed once the fraud is detected by the bank and you should not spend that money. Otherwise, your only recourse would be to sue the scammer for the money, which will be nearly impossible on several levels.
If you do nothing the money will come out on its own in about 2 weeks. Don't spend and don't process a refund.
What If I've already spent the money, why am I being held responsible, if we made a deal shouldn't he be held responsible and have to pay? If they detected the fraud than they should be able to identify who's responsible. I just can't understand what that has to do with me.
Not at all, especially in these matters. Likely you were given a fake name/address. Likely all the bank/card company can see is the fraudulent transactions. Likely it's going to be very hard to nearly impossible to track this scammer down, and even if you can, you'd have to sue them AND collect, both of which are likely to be problematic.
If you've already spent the money, you should move money back into that account to cover the transaction and prevent issues/fees if it is backed out. Which it likely will be.
Fraud or not, it's not yours. Make plans to get that money back in your account, because the bank will be coming for it very soon.
You really should not have spent the money before the transaction was complete. That's very risky, as you can see from this. As a business owner, you should look into risk management strategies and best practices so that you are not caught out by scams like this. Not touching money from transactions for a certain period of time until you can be reasonably sure they are finalized is one such good practice.
This is why you should adopt risk management practices to protect yourself. If the charge is fraudulent, it WILL be reversed. You cannot prevent that. Whatever deal you had with the scammer does not matter. You are now on the hook for the likely impossible task of suing and collecting from the scammer to make yourself whole. However, had you waited to touch the money, the money would simply be reversed out of your account, you could put the item back up for sale, and there would be no harm and only minor inconvenience to you.
If you've already sent the camera, then I hate to tell you that you're out the full $440, not just the $25.
Your damages are under $25. If he doesn't pay, then you have to decide whether it's worth trying to sue him for that. (It's almost certainly not).
But, the other people here are almost certainly correct. This is very likely fraud. The urgency of shipment is part of the giveaway -- the longer it takes, the more likely his payment will be reversed.
(In general, using Facebook Marketplace or eBay to do a transaction of a high-dollar, easily pawned, item like a camera is very risky. I would only do it for cash, making the exchange at your local police office.).
No, do not refund. The refund will come out of OP's "real" money. Then when the fraud is detected, the bank with withdraw it AGAIN.