These people must know if they did come to power by force that things wouldn’t change significantly at all. It takes a lot of work and stability to make big societal changes. Let alone a free society.
Also getting rid of the platforms that spread disinformation is key. YouTube, Twitter, Facebook/meta, Fox News, newsmax, brietbart, just to name a few.
I've been thinking a lot about this issue recently. Maybe someone who knows more can fill in the gaps, but from what I could piece together, as housing prices rise and wages are stagnant, it seems that the old neoliberal world order has lost much of its legitimacy. If I were a historian, I think somewhere in the past few years, we have entered a new era of history.
Please correct anything that I am missing and or wrong about, but I think we can try and piece together what has happened in the past few years before the historians get around to it in a few decades.
Somewhere in 2016 is when the wave finally broke, and I think we definitely are in a new era as far as US politics is concerned, though some would extend it back to Newt Gingrich and the first impeachment in the 1990s (again, this is the problem with periodization in history in that there is usually not a very clear line between eras. If we want to be lazy, we could say 2016, but the signs have been present since the Reagan era).
In the US, the neocons and the neoliberal hegemony of Free Trade and Interventionism has given rise to new protectionism, as workers could see their jobs either lost due to automation, or shipped off to China. I think the 2008 financial crisis was what finally broke the system of decades of declining wages. The political shockwaves would lag behind, however. On the left, this manifests as the progressive movement, while on the right, this manifests as a populist nationalist movement.
In Canada, we're mostly fine; most of our extremist influence is homegrown, but very directly inspired by the US. We really have no idea what the far right is talking about, but most people just don't care lol. Both leftists parties are addressing both climate change and the rise of housing prices on their agendas, and national healthcare is still working, barely, for now. Oh, and separatist movements have been on the rise, as they do every few years, but that's normal.
In Europe, the old liberal parties has been kept in power for a long time, and well, it's only natural that people start blaming all their problems on the present order, though so far it seems most people are still sane in Europe.
Thing is since "first past the post" counting systems are barely used here, the growth of the crazies takes a few more cycles.