It is unlikely that the eavesdropping statute will apply. Yes, the home is a private residency and not a public space. But, there is a big difference between the homeowner and someone invited to work on the property. IMO, most courts are going to say that your privacy interest is limited when compared to a person's ability to monitor a person's private home, especially since the recording device was in the kitchen (a public area).
To say the homeowner broke the law would require every homeowner to turn off ring door camera and devices like Alexis inside the home. This makes the home less safe, prevents the homeowner from monitory the property when no worker is present, and it prevents a homeowner from remotely monitory workers when the homeowner cannot be physically present.
So Colorado is a one-party state, but there were no parties in that conversation that knew they were being recorded.
However, were there any signs stating that the premise had cameras/audio recording. Such as "this property is monitored by xxx security" or anything like that?
When a private residence is a workplace, I don't think the statute is nearly as cut and dried as you do. If you have a Colorado case that says otherwise, please share it.
I'm not talking about news stations, I'm talking about case law. Appellate decisions that constitute binding authority on lower courts.
It doesn't give any answer, because the facts are entirely different and so is the procedural posture -- it's a motion to suppress in a criminal case.
There isn’t anything in the statue which provides such exception but someone charged for eavesdropping could and probably would make the argument the person they recorded had no expectation of privacy. As for relevant cases it’s a misdemeanor so news stations aren’t gonna really report on it. Thus this is the closest I can find: Do note it’s about wiretapping not eavesdropping. It doesn’t really give a definitive answer to your question but I feel the onus is on you to show that op wouldn’t have a expectation of privacy in their situation.
And I feel that the person making sweeping assertions is the one who has to back it up. All I said is that it's not as cut and dried as you and another commenter seem to think. Responses to OP, therefore, should reflect that ambiguity. I have no burden to prove something I never asserted in the first place.
Further, even if it is, what's your suggestion that results in OP not getting fired here? Calling the police to report the misdemeanor? I can't see any DA who wants to be reelected actually prosecuting this.
They are in a private residence, Colorado is a one party state. Neither party of the conversation was aware they were being recorded.
I don't think I commented on that, in fact I hadn't responded beyond asking if they were notified. You are making a lot of assumptions about what I said and what I am suggesting.
Lastly, it is a felony in Colorado. Last I checked, this sub focused on what was legal or not. Not your opinion of what a DA would bring charges against.
Wiretapping is a felony. CO has a specific statute on one-party recording which calls it eavesdropping, and.
The statute specifically mentions an expectation of privacy. Despite being in a residence, it was not her residence. She was working. In a world where security cameras are everywhere, especially for people who leave workers alone in their homes. So I'm not sure it's as cut and dried as you think.
Not what that means. Parties in the case of wiretapping or eavesdropping or other such laws generally means the people participating in the conversation. So if there are three people talking in a one party consent state if any of the 3 give consent then you can legally record the conversation.
Unless notice was given through signage or verbal/digital communication that their is a camera on the premises it would be illegal to record the conversation. A house isn’t a public space so while you can have cameras and the like for security or business purposes you must provide reasonable notice of said device. In Colorado eavesdropping is a class 1 misdemeanor which can result in 6-18 months in jail and a fine up to $5000.