In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
There are multiple things that prevent a single deranged idiot from launching nukes, but if it did happen, I’m confident the USA would get the shit kicked out of it, either militarily or economically.
I swear Trump’s solution to every problem was literally just the first thing that popped into his head and he never once wonders why no one thought to do it before. Immigrants wall hostile nation nuke, hurricane nukes, Covid bleach or light bulb up the ass.
He might have wanted to nuke Puerto Rico, not Hurricane Dorian, and go 'that wasn't what we had planned." Dorian was on course for Puerto Rico, and Trump was already furious with them over the 2015 golf course bankruptcy and that they kept asking for more aid after Hurriane Maria.
December 16, 2015 “When you have the World Trade Center go, people were put into planes that were friends, families, girlfriends – and they were put into planes and they were sent back, for the most part, to Saudi Arabia. They knew what was going on. They went home and they wanted to watch their boyfriends on television. I would be very, very firm with families. And frankly, that will make people think, because they may not care much about their lives. But they do care, believe it or not, about their families' lives.” - Donald Trump.
It wouldn’t end the problem of terrorism, it would create more terrorists. As well as probably triggering completely legitimate military action against the US.
December 2, 2015 "With the terrorists, you have to take out their families. When you get these terrorists, you have to take out their families. They care about their lives, don't kid yourselves. But they say they don't care about their lives. You have to take out their families." - Donald Trump.
And a lot of that is repeating his father's sales pitch hyperbole. Mary L. Trump said her grandfather, Fred, talked that way at home as well as when he was working.