Your post here has been reported as a potential troll or falsified post. Please message the moderators through the link below with proof of some kind that this isn't a troll post. Your evidence will not be available for public viewing, it will only be reviewed by the moderators for the purposes substantiating your claims.
No one has been physically hurt by this but my husbands family are threatening to have me arrested which I think is unfair as like I said, no one has been hurt by this and some of the donations were from companies that earn much more money than is fair anyway.
Lol how can you set up a fake charity and then claim you “accidentally” raised 25k and then “accidentally” bought a state of the art home gym?
You committed charity fraud. That’s illegal and can put you behind bars for up to 14 years. Depending on the state you’re in.
Please . If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, . Do not make a second post or comment.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
I made a fake go fund me page and put a flyer up in the local shop and also shared the facebook page and go fund me link on the local village Facebook group.
About a month ago I started a Facebook page as a joke to raise money for my friend because he was in an accident while on holiday that involved him losing a leg after being bitten by a crocodile.
Within a week I had raise around $25,000 and I do realise now that I should have owned up to the joke but I was frightened and didn’t know what to do so I started heavily drinking and doing cocaine and ketamine binges and one night when I was completely out of it I ended up purchasing a state of the art home gym and then over the next week I accidentally had it installed in my house.
I literally can not return the money even if I wanted to because the company I bought the home gym from said I can’t return it after it has been used because of covid.
I really don’t know what to do and to be honest I don’t think I have done anything that bad as no one has been hurt other than my friend who lost his leg while he was on a luxury holiday which he enjoyed right until two days before he was about to leave.
I have thought about releasing an apology song I wrote for the village with all proceeds going to charity but my husband and his family think this is a ridiculous idea and they say it is purely a self cantered egotistical idea to fuel my dream of becoming a popular singer.
Title: Can you go to prison for making up a fake charity and raising $25,000 by mistake from people in your village and accidentally buying a state of the art home gym that you are unable to return because it’s been used on numerous occasions and the company are unable to process returns because of covid?