In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
- Resistance to change, because transitioning from "That's how we've always done it" to "Hey, this actually works" takes people who can't--or refuse to--think critically out of their comfort-zone, no matter how genuinely shitty that comfort-zone may be. This is also known as being...stop me if you heard this one...conservative. This is also typically when the religion card gets played.
Maybe instead of snearing at your countrymen from a different background than you, you might spare a thought for what makes them vulnerable and susceptible to that kind of thing... or just go ahead and keep fanning the flames. Lord knows that's easier.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Stop with this. Rural voters are American too and they're not the only targets of Russian disinformation. They come after liberals too. Even successfully organizing rallies from overseas that actual people attended.
- Lack of education, due to defunding/fuckery by conservative lawmakers; and voluntarily, since they've been enabled as superior to their LiBRUL cOLLEGE eDJUCATED eLiTiST peers who usually live in cities, which pay higher taxes, which in turn pay subsidies to keep said rural voters from starving. That enabling also is provided by those same conservatives.
... and it was a DIFFERENT Trump campaign manager who was literally on the Kremlin payroll for a decade toppling one democracy after another for Putin.
... and still other Trump campaign staffers who just ratfucked the Phillipines elections using disinformation bots to trick locals into electing the son of their formal brutal dictator.
Try devastated communities, absorbing all the losses of NAFTA while us in the cities and burbs reaped all the benefits, bearing the brunt of the opioid crisis that reddit cares so much about until it's time to care about the actual people who suffered most... but no I'm sure I'm wrong. Your condescending bullshit is the answer. Why oh why can't they see it 🙄.
A lot of the ties aren't hidden. Parler was started by the daughter of the financier who bankrolled Trump and Cambridge Analytica.