If you are a first time visitor, welcome! This thread is trending high right now and getting a lot of attention, but it is important to remember those upvotes represent interest in the question itself, and . The mission of /r/AskHistorians is to provide users with in-depth and comprehensive responses, and our are intended to facilitate that purpose. We have removed many comments which don't follow them, mostly because they're personal anecdotes, speculation, links to inflation calculators, and jokes. Making comments asking about the removed comments simply compounds this issue. So please, before you try your hand at posting, check out the , as we don't want to have to warn you further.
Of course, we know that it can be frustrating to come in here from your frontpage or /r/all and see only provides a guide to a number of ways to do so, including the RemindMeBot- - or.
Finally, while we always appreciate feedback, it is unfair to the OP to further derail this thread with META conversation, so if anyone has further questions or concerns, I would ask that they be directed to , or a . Thank you!
Wow! I can finally provide some help with a question on /r/AskHistorians as a lawyer who does some labor, employment, and wage work, and as a big fan of the show. I can at least give some background on what we know about the show and about the wages Al earned while joking with Griff and.
First, the income analysis. We can look at this in two ways: How much did shoe salesmen earn around that time, and how much Al Bundy actually earned.
Some basics on this for those who don't know: The show ran from 1987 to 1997 on Fox, and was (along with The Simpsons) the first hit for the fledgling network.
Assuming Kelly was a child and Bud was a toddler when they bought the house, which would make sense, they could have purchased it around 1980. In 1980, the average home price in Illinois was $50,004, again using . says the average 30-year fixed mortgage rate was 13.74% that year (oof). That makes the mortgage payment $466, figuring Al scraped up a 20% down payment. We can reasonably estimate $500 with taxes and insurance.
How realistic was that for retail employees in general during that time? I found data from , showing that retail clerks at that time had a mean weekly salary of $278. So, when you add in Al's commissions, it seems entirely realistic!
We actually know a great deal about how much Al earned. Al earned a base salary plus commission at the store. We know from "My Mom, the Mom" (S03E12) Al earns that way, because he states he earns a 10% commission on each sale. I would say this really tells us how great of a salesman he is, considering how many customers he can insult and still earn those bonuses.
Even better, we actually know Al's base salary! In , Al is offered "a year's salary" for an early retirement. How much? $12,000. At 40 hours a week that breaks down to about $5.77/hour. Or $231/week. Of course, Peg spent Al's retirement bonus in a single day, as she is known to do, and Al returned to work the very next day. (.
Uh oh. Not looking good we would realistically see The Dodge parked in that driveway. Historical home values from the county clerk's office suggest that was not a huge sudden increase, either.
Just to add in general: The minimum wage of Illinois in 1991 increased to $4.25/hour. So, again, Al's compensation on the show is very realistic. Jefferson approves!
Fantastic response! You could also include shows like Roseanne and Malcolm in the Middle which depicted similar families where the wife had to work outside the house because the family couldn’t make ends meet without a second income.
Now, the matter of the family living arrangements. We know that the Bundy family lives in a "Chicago suburb". The actual exterior shot of the Bundy house is taken from . That home sold in 1998, a year after the show went off the air, for $320,000. What's more, we know from 1990 Census data that average home costs for Deerfield, Illinois, were between $1400-$1500 per month for homeowners with a mortgage. So, unless scoring 4 touchdowns in a single game at Polk High came with a big cash bonus (and BTW that fact is extremely relevant at all times), Al wasn't mortgaging a home in Deerfield (using 30% monthly income as the "affordability" figure like most banks).
So we know Al couldn't swing that particular house, but what about in general? The median home price in 1990 Illinois was $80,100 based on the 1990 Census. But Al didn't BUY the house in 1990. He bought the house sometime before 1987.
So now, in terms of a median home price and the Bundy family's likely situation, the show makes some sense. In 1987-1997, Al would maybe be able to "afford" that median house he purchased in 1980, as in, make payments, but (especially if he drove most customers away with his fat jokes, and had less commission), it would be a real struggle. The struggle often portrayed by Al's frustration on the show. And why shouldn't he be frustrated? All he wants is to sit on the couch and possibly read the occasional issue of Big Uns (or potentially the special issue with 120 pages - that's 240 "Uns"!).
Further reading? Kelly says reading is for girls who aren't hot. Instead, I suggest watching the show, which is available on Hulu. Grandmaster B approves.
Moving on further: the pilot of Cheers. 1980s now. Diane enters Cheers to enjoy a toast: she's just gotten engaged. But her fiancé runs off to be with his ex wife so suddenly... she needs a job? What an unusual and unexpected position for an educated white woman to be in!? She takes the job but immediately the stakes turn into a sexual ping-pong match between her and her boss. I guess the idea that she was even at the table was considered revolutionary.
Thank you, this may be my favorite Reddit thread of all time seeing as it combines two of my great passions - history and Married ... With Children!
The only thing I might add to your excellent analysis is Al’s own take on his homeowning experience: “A man’s home is his prison.”.
Pointedly, then, the show's realisticness in terms of their home and arrangements might depend on whether Al drew any income as the founder and President of the National Organization of Men Against Amazonian Masterhood.
The only thing I might add to your excellent analysis is Al’s own take on his homeowning experience: “A man’s home is his prison.”.
Thank you, this may be my favorite Reddit thread of all time seeing as it combines two of my great passions - history and Married ... With Children!
Thank you, this may be my favorite Reddit thread of all time seeing as it combines two of my great passions - history and Married ... With Children!
The only thing I might add to your excellent analysis is Al’s own take on his homeowning experience: “A man’s home is his prison.”.
I'd like to respond to this question from the opposite angle, which is: is it realistic that a Chicago homeowner family where the man is a retail worker would have a homemaker wife in the 1980s/1990s. The answer-- as others have pointed out-- is no. But it's interesting to look at why in the early 1990s that might have been a popular choice for a sitcom family dynamic and how Peg Bundy differed from other sitcom women of her era and those who came before her.
Let's look at the original sitcom woman: Lucy. She managed to live in an apartment with wall-to-wall carpeting and fresh drapes while living on a single-income non-white entertainer's salary in the 1950s and maintaining a friendship with her landlord and his wife. Was that realistic? Probably not. But the show didn't get into the details of how they paid the bills. It presented the normalized idea that men were the breadwinners and women stayed at home and had lots of spare time to get into crazy schemes. Her schemes-- even when they were purely economical ones-- were always motivated internally. Lucy wanted fame: on television, or in the club, or in Hollywood. She never tried to advance herself to make money. Because that's not the sort of thing a (successful?) woman did.
The next relevant sitcom wife of the era was Laura Pietrie (Mary Tyler Moore on the Dick Van Dyke show). Again, here was a pretty domestic wife, now in a New York suburb instead of the city. On a few occasions she did go after money opportunities-- like appearing on a game show-- but the premise of the episode was never that the family's economic security was in doubt. Instead, the woman grasping after success was characterized as reaching at "even more" economic success for "already successful" households.
In reality, in this era, the work situation was anything but rosy or optional. Firms like Manpower and Kelly Girl were discovering the power of the female "temp" workforce. Why pay a full-time (male) clerk (who would expect benefits and a pension) when you could just as easily hire a Kelly Girl "temp" who was "just doing this for some extra money" and didn't have to be paid-- even thought of-- if she were sick, unavailable, or anything else. You were paying Kelly Girl, and if your usual Kelly Girl was unavailable, they'd just send a different one.
These details of women entering the workplace are detailed in TEMP by Louis Hyman, who is a labor economist at Cornell. In his book, he makes the point that in the post-war 20th Century, women were essential in establishing the idea of "temp" labor, and once big corporate management consultancy firms (McKinsey being the big one) figured out how much more profitable it was to hire only temp workers-- the economy was forever changed.