Welcome to the “Names You've Never Heard: \[Deleted\] Figures from the Annals of History” conference panel Q&A! This panel reintroduces us to figures from the past whom history appears to have erased or forgotten.
Jessica Harborne (u/Arenariaa), presenting her paper “How Silences Are Written into History, and How, or Whether They Should be Written Out of It: The Case of Katherine Read”.
Moderated by Nicolas Huet (/u/FrenchMurazor), it explores the lives of Katherine Read, an eighteenth-century Scottish portrait painter; Juba II of Mauretania, Roman client-king and foster child of the emperor Augustus; and two early twentieth-century bookbinders and book artists named Suzanne Roussy whose lives have somehow been condensed into a single confusing narrative.
For art historians, the name ‘Joshua Reynolds’ immediately calls to mind one of the major European painters of the 18th century. Not so long ago, however, some of the paintings attributed to him were discovered to instead be by his contemporary, Katherine Read. Clearly a highly talented artist of the time, we must ask, why then has her name descended into obscurity? Read, a Scottish exile, spinster, and one of few early modern female pastellists, died alone in 1778 on a return journey from India. It was at this point that her colorful life of travel, fame and courtly extravagance was transformed into a tale of loss. During her later years, she had already begun to be side-lined from the portraiture scene; with one London courant critic declaring, ‘Stand aside, Miss Read’. After her death, this erasure from the world of art, and that more generally, became essentially absolute. She was only mentioned twice in writing until an article about her appeared in 1905. Her once frequent and lenhy correspondence is now also presumed lost or destroyed. The story of these letters, which form the remaining traces of her voice, reveal the gendered element to her silencing. As a woman, Read, unlike her male relatives, was unable to be employed in formal service to the state. Her correspondence, therefore, was retained by her family and not handed over to the national archives. Dying unmarried and without children, it consequently passed to more distant relatives, whose interest in preserving her memory came to dictate its preservation or deletion. For reconstructing her legacy, this writing must thus be returned to in a way that appreciates silence, rather than pasting over it, as it forms an important part of her legacy, which is made up of loss as much as it is life.
Andrew Kenrick (/u/littlestkobold), presenting his paper, “Rome's African King: Juba II of Mauretania (52 BC-AD 23)”.
The Berber prince Juba II was one of a handful of foreign children raised in the Roman emperor Augustus’s household in the early 1st Century BC, before being instated as king of Mauretania to rule on Rome’s behalf in 25 BC. His legacy was not of tyranny but of scholarship. Juba became a famed antiquarian, travel writer and explorer; he discovered the Canary Islands and searched for the source of the Nile, wrote histories of Arabia and Libya, and led diplomatic missions on behalf of Rome to its neighbours. He ruled alongside his wife Cleopatra Selene (40 BC-6 BC), the daughter of Mark Antony and Cleopatra, also raised in Augustus’ household after the death of her parents.
The 1st Century BC is the best-known era of Roman history, in part because the work of its own historians has survived, which makes it all the more surprising that two such prominent members of Imperial Rome’s elite have not received the attention they deserve. In part, perhaps, this is because their ethnicity does not fit with modern perceptions of Rome, which continues to be seen as essentially white, and in part because the kingdoms that bordered the Roman empire are often dismissed as provincial backwaters.
In this paper I will use evidence from Juba II’s own art collection to show that he was not the ruler of some far-flung barbarian outpost, but head of a thriving colony of Roman culture in North Africa.
As an archivist at the Thomas Fisher Rare Book Library, I often have occasion to search through some of our lesser-known collections. Recently this included the fonds of Canadian bookbinder, Douglas Duncan, who worked in Paris in the 1920s. Tucked away with his papers was a small envelope labelled “Mlle Roussy’s endpapers.” Inside were thirty-six hand-painted art samples intended for the inside covers of specialty, high-end printed books, each embossed with “Atelier d’Art Suzanne Roussy 38 Quai Henri IV PARIS.” This was an exciting find as the decorative arts, especially within the field of bookmaking, is an arena where the work of women often goes unaccredited.
Danielle van Wagner (/u/DanielleTheArchivist) presenting her paper, “A Tale of Two Suzannes: Rediscovering a Twentieth-Century Bookbinder”.
Published academic sources identify the artist as the Franco-Caribbean writer and philosopher, Suzanne Roussy Césaire (1915-1963), who supported herself as a bookbinder in Paris prior to her marriage in 1937. The Museum of the City of Paris, the only institutional holding for a book designed by Roussy, confirms this identification. Yet, an in-depth analysis of Parisian newspapers and art journals shows that a Suzanne Roussy steadily exhibited book bindings, end paper designs, wallpapers and decorative cushions beginning in 1919 up until 1935, even though Suzzane Roussy Césaire was born in 1915 and lived in Martinique until 1934. Two accomplished women - vastly different in occupation, class and race – who happened to share the same name, have been merged by scholars and museum professionals, and as a result one of these women has been completely erased from history. This presentation will provide, for the first time, the biography of Suzanne Victoria Roussy (1895-1958), identify her work, and place her within the largely male-driven world of high-end book production occurring in Paris in the 1920s and 30s.
A somewhat methodological question for all of you: given the premise of this panel's theme, of erasure from the historical record, can you speak a little about the process of excavating these lives when, presumably, the sources on these individuals is quite sparse?
Hello, /u/Arenariaa, /u/thelittlestkobold, and /u/DanielleTheArchivist Thank you so much for these papers and discussion.
Hi Thank you for your kind comments about our panel ☺️ In terms of how I went about uncovering information about Katherine Read, it was a real hunt. I first came across a reference to her in an online primary source database for Early Modern English travellers in Europe. However, the archive which the information forming her account was taken from turned out to only hold notes taken from original papers. A long search then ensued, which consisted of reaching out to all the people that I could find to have written about Read, until I finally came across the person holding the transcripts of her original letters. Other than this, my search largely consisted of reaching out to archives and seeing if they possessed any material by/about Read. I hope this answers your question! 😊.
Hello, thank you for your question. I stumbled across Suzanne Roussy quite by accident, finding a selection of her endpapers in a completely unrelated archival collection. Once I started looking for her, I discovered that her work had been attributed to another woman by the same name by different academics and museum professionals, which made finding actual information, especially on the internet, about her exceptionally more difficult. From there I found the best approach was to look for her in books, periodicals and exhibition catalogues from her own time period, where I was able to start finding basic information ( and proved especially helpful). Afterwards it was useful to search those around Roussy who were more well-known, such as her father and her mentor, who have more written on them, and some archival sources.
It has been quite a difficult and ongoing challenge to find out more about her, but also quite an exciting one. Each reference has been such a victory. I recently found a two-page article on her in Italian from 1931, which revealed that she exhibited bookbindings to some acclaim in Italy, which I certainly hadn't expected!
This is pretty much the subject of my doctoral research - how can we find/use different sources that enable us to tell different stories. Because, if you use the same (limited) sources as everyone else, you tend to end up with the same story. In my case, that's meant turning to artefacts and archaeological evidence, rather than just relying on textual evidence. And it might sound obvious, but all too often only one of these sources (archaeology and historical) is considered, especially when writing biography.
Some of these artefacts are directly linked to Juba II and Cleopatra Selene, either because they depicted them or were commissioned them or, in a few rare cases, were owned by them. Others were just from the same time/place as them. In each case, I asked: what does this item tell me about them? Does it tell me something new, or let me question the existing narrative in a different way.
I think in the case of Suzanne Roussy she had two strikes against her. She was working in two fields (decorative arts, bookbinding) that typically did not expressly see the creators as artists, especially if they were women. While Roussy exhibited extensively, and had reproductions of her works published in several periodicals and books at the time, very few of her works were collected by institutions, or wealthy collectors, nor was she discussed by traditional art historians. Many female artists survive through history through their association with the men around them, such as other artists taking a mentoring role, collectors, reviewers/writers, and she did not have that. All of these worked together for her to become 'lost.'.