Depending on your state, you may have been required by law to report the firearm stolen within a certain time period. No one will be able to tell you for certain whether your testimony, the e-mails etc would go to establish sufficient probable cause for the police to make an arrest or for a court to issue a search warrant. At the very least, hopefully the police will determine that your report merits further investigation.
I'm also concerned that your mentally ill felon ex managed to steal one of your registered firearms not once, not twice but on three separate occasions. In the event the gun is used in the commission of a crime, whose door do you think the police will be knocking on?
Just so you know, the standard of evidence for a conviction is "beyond a reasonable doubt". (Not that it matters because there's no requirement that you be familiar with legal terminology in order to ask questions here).
Then you should consult with a criminal defense attorney. Unfortunately, I can't answer your question re. the legality of the eBay purchase on either your end or hers.
I also did everything I could to get my safe recombod. It's a dial type lock and a large safe and I could not get anyone locally to recombo it. Ok so what about her being a felon. What if I did have proof she bought gun parts on eBay and that's how we met? The parts I sold were legal for me to have sold, but wouldn't she be prohibited if she's a felon? I'm not required to have known she was a felon right?
It was locked in a safe. I gave her the combo early on in the relationship stupidly. It was not a functional firearm at the time either but that's no excuse either.
I know I'm not required to have known if she was or wasn't a felon. It did not violate ebay policy either. It was a slide, a non registered part. But under federal law, if someone is a felon, doesn't that mean they are prohibited from owning firearm parts?
You met her via ebay when you sold her a glock upper (what the hell is a glock upper? You mean a barrel and slide assembly?).
The burden of proof for a conviction is "beyond a reasonable doubt," which I do not see anywhere in your post. Proving that she stole something BRD is difficult.
The larger point is that, apparently, you have not reported any of these missing firearms to the police, which, depending on your location, could in and of itself be a crime.
I had a hard time wanting to report my at the time 7 month pregnant girlfriend to the cops and after she did give birth I was afraid she would take my son back to her home state until I was able to establish patternity.
If you don't report it, and she commits a crime with it, you are now in trouble for not having reported that she took/stole/borrowed one of your firearms, and you lost track of it. This is also a bad thing.
You also still have not replaced the lock on your safe, or had the combination changed. You should do that ASAP.
So what about her being a felon? Are they allowed to have firearm parts in their possession? Yes I am referring to a slide and barrel. I have our messages on ebay of the purchase and her phone number she gave me first.
Constructive possession, is something I can also prove then with her messages. Her messages were about building a gun. Isn't owning those parts already and her being a felon enough reason for constructive possession? What about her sending me pictures of her holding a bunch of different firearms? What about a video I have of her shooting the gun that she completed with that same upper, before we even met in person?
Also I am aware of what charge I could possibly face. Which is a petty misdemeanor. But like I said, if that's the case I would hope they take into consideration the reasons why I did not report it stolen immediately.
2) for me, she was a flight risk of taking my son to her home state, and I needed to make sure I had established patternity first.