Do you have a formal custody agreement? Pennsylvania law addresses this specific issue, but official court documents signed by a judge may be required to convince the school. A consultation with a local family law attorney would be able to give you better insight.
"When the parents reside in different school districts due to separation, divorce or other reason, the child may attend school in the district of residence of the parent with whom the child lives for a majority of the time, unless a court order or court approved custody agreement specifies otherwise. If the parents have joint custody and time is evenly divided, the parents may choose which of the two school districts the child will enroll for the school year.".
You are very welcome. You two are doing a good job working together and co-parenting through this challenging situation, which is the most important part.
Thank you for the very informational reply, we don’t have any kind of formal written/signed agreement, not really sure I would even call it a verbal agreement; just an understanding of if I’m working the kids are with their father.
Our families don’t know what’s going on either, it’s just been an understanding between us and the kids think it’s fun to have sleep overs at dads because it’s like a vacation.
I also wanted to say that since you are taking the kids to school, that is when your custody of them begins for the day. So even though they are at school and not home it is likely that you have equal or greater custody time than their father.
School district policy can not supersede state law. One possibility is having a face to face meeting with school district officials and both parents present, and formally stating that you currently have joint custody and equal time. Which means your kids have the right by state law to attend the district of either parent's residence.
For example, if you pick them up at 7am and drop them off at 7pm, then you both have 12 hours of custody a day and therefore 50/50 joint custody, allowing your kids to attend either district under 24 Pa. Code Section 11.11(a)(1).
The second option is to inform the school that you are working nights and the children are at the other address for the purpose of child care. They can't tell you what shift to work. Are the kids taking the bus to your house after school? Is that where they have dinner and do homework most of the time? That's their home.
Thanks for the reply, I pick up the kids to and from school, they were bus riders until the last 2 months or so.
Dinner is at home, homework is at their fathers depending how much work it is or how long it took us to sit down and eat.
OP, make a copy of Some very recent utility bills at the address where you stay, which should be the address the children are registered from. Prove that the children have a residence there and that your family does reside in that district.