In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
I’m not American but American politics have affected my country. Educated people are buying into the misinformation all around me. While your facts have definitely shaped these people it has gone beyond those facts. Like I said these people are choosing at this point even though the facts are right in front of them.
Nothing ever happens to him because he goes right up to the line but has others cross it on his behalf, like Cohen, Weisselberg or Manafort. Imagine being 70 something Weisselberg and sitting in Rikers for 5mos because of Trump. WTF.
I had a friend that got stabbed at Rikers decades ago. As a guard. And he said a ton of things that indicate things haven't changed much over the decades I see.
Hes made a dreadful mistake, and not taken over a year somewhere else. Im told he will be in the infirmary much of the time, I dont think thats nearly as nice as what people think.
Sorry but I disagree. These people choose the resources they get their information from because it suits their narrative. It’s time to stay treating them like victims. Sorry but I’m done with people like you making excuses for them.
Nope. I will disagree all I want because from my personal experience I know these people choose the information that suits them. Your facts aren’t based in real life experience.
But when you’re a sociopath, none of that matters. Imagine being a guy that’s in litigation of some sort every day for the last 30-40 years. Or being a guy that doesn’t pay employees or contractors. Or having kids with 3 different wives and a wife that’s almost the same age as your sons. You have to have a real narcissistic condition, which to some degree is remarkable. Few of us could live like this.