In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The tensions between the U.S. and China over alleged spy balloons shot down over North America have some of the top trade associations representing companies reliant on Chinese manufacturing to urge their members to diversify their supply chains.
The National Retail Federation, the American Footwear and Apparel Association, and the Council of Supply Chain Management Professionals tell CNBC that the rising tensions with China due to the spy balloons have resulted in new concerns from their member companies, already dealing in recent years with tariffs imposed by President Trump and President Biden, and Covid shutdowns under the “Zero Covid.”.
“The ongoing tensions with the U.S.-China trade relationship continue to highlight the need for supply chain diversification,” said Jon Gold, vice president of supply chain and customs policy of the National Retail Federation. “From the tariffs to Covid-19 to additional challenges, retailers are looking for opportunities to diversify their sourcing to ensure they have resilient supply chains to meet consumer needs.”.
Mark Baxa, president, and CEO of the Council of Supply Chain Management Professionals, told CNBC that the trade group’s members have been pursuing redundancies in their supply chain since the start of tariffs as a way to offset the risk of ongoing trade policy tensions.
The latest data shows a significant move of manufacturing to countries including Vietnam and the Philippines. Many companies are also leaning into the revised NAFTA agreement, UMSCA, as a way to bring more manufacturing back to North America.
USA buys 3.5 times as much from China than China buys from USA. The goods going to and fro are not exactly the same.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
But it's not just US companies that are looking to do it. Is China able to replace what's lost as exports with sales internally? Is China able to replace the technology it gets from the West with homegrown technology?
Look up what China has been doing for the past 10 years and 5 years. Internally. Basically the questions you ask China asked them awhile back and uh, they kinda came up with a plan. Start with green tech and 7 nm node. Oh, and the EV situation. And batteries. And solar panels. And nuclear power plants. And their imports from non-USA countries.
Except for the recent record high of trade and all those times China keeps asking USA to stop messing it up.
Translation, USA made China expensive. But they didn’t Vietnam, Thailand, India, Combodia, etc. Oh… look no USA. Sad face .