Hello. There’s always more to be said, but I discussed very specifically whether in this thread, and it may be of some interest. Suffice to say, antisemitism and conflict in the Middle East did not exist only after WWI, or even only after Zionism became a movement for the establishment of Israel.
You’re asking for a very broad view, that encompasses thousands of years, which is complex, and the ways in which persecution and oppression of Jews, as well as conflict with them—occurred are vast and varied across the Middle East—so it is hard to give one cohesive answer. There have been good books written about the subject, however, which include Martin Gilbert’s In Ishmael’s House (an imperfect book but one that does well as a broad, digestible overview) and a collection of articles in A History of Jewish-Muslim Relations, edited by Abdelwahab Meddeb and Benjamin Stora. As explained in the Prologue, by Mark Cohen (which is publicly available online), the “interfaith utopia” imagined to exist was to a certain extent a myth, “it ignored, or left unmentioned, the legal inferiority of the Jews and periodic outbursts of violence”.
The prologue alone is worth a read, but at risk of droning on, I’ll suggest picking up a full book and investigating the subject further if you have interest beyond this basic short answer. I’m happy to discuss further as well.
That's a fantastic follow-up. And also a generally great letter, though I'd caution folks to think of it again in terms of what it meant in general. Cohen, in that prologue I mentioned, suggests a few factors as to why the case of European Jewry involved so much more outright explosion of antisemitism, but he also makes clear that they existed in the Ottoman Empire as well. For example, Zarfati's letter in approximately 1454 came after the Almohad Caliphate, which arose in the mid-1100s and lasted at least 100 years, had expelled and persecuted most Jews out of their communities (many fleeing to modern-day Spain, where they would be expelled again relatively closely to when this letter was written). Some of those Jews would then once again flee to the Ottoman Empire, thus returning to Muslim-ruled lands in the late 1400s and early 1500s.
This comment was pretty informative, and I started reading up on the history of Jewish people in the Ottoman Empire. From 1300-1600, Jewish life in the Ottoman Empire seemed decent, especially when compared to Europe. Like in the 15th century, Rabbi Isaac Zarfati wrote a letter of invitation to Jewish people in Europe, writing.
In your original comment you mentioned that anti-Semitic tropes like the blood libel were imported from Europe in the 19th century, and Cohen mentions here that rising anti-semitism in that time period was spearheaded by nationalists. Are these conflicting views in the literature, or is it just that these nationalists are the ones who brought the ideas from Europe?
As Yaron Ben Naeh describes in that book I referenced, A History of Jewish-Muslim Relations, the Ottoman Empire recognized Jews without the attendant ghettoization Jews could sometimes expect in Europe. Building synagogues was not easy, but practice existed. And, generally speaking, Jews had a sense that so long as they existed within the dhimma framework, they would not be expelled, massacred, or forcibly converted. Jews attempted to gain influence to protect themselves, because as you went into more provincial leadership, there were often those who used Jews as convenient targets for public appeal, and Jews were still subjected to harassment and insults generally (especially stone-throwing and insults at Jewish children).
Even that faith in non-expulsion during that relatively safe period also did not always hold up in other parts of the Middle East, because in the mid-1600s there was more to it (long before Zionism). For example, Yosef Tobi in the same book describes Jews living under the Zaidi regime in Yemen (separate from the Ottomans) in the 1600s. The rise of Sabbatai Zevi, who claimed to be the Jewish Messiah, created a controversial Jewish movement. When rumors of him reached Yemen, Jews were blamed as extremists who would subscribe to his blasphemy, and some Jewish leaders were humiliated (forced to walk bareheaded) and thrown in prison. One Jew who claimed to have a Messianic vision walked up to the governor in Sanaa, and told him to come down from the throne, and was beaten and imprisoned for this (frankly stupid) act. The government then used this as an excuse to nullify any protection agreements with the Jewish community, and a decree of expulsion of Jews was issued in 1679. How far it went is unclear, but this was not the last time Jews were threatened with expulsion and subjected to scapegoating in Yemen, for example.
Gilles Veinstein gives a very broad overview of Jews in the Ottoman Empire, to return to that briefly, and reports that the Ottomans were much more likely to honor the dhimma framework than other empires before or after them, or that existed concurrently with them in places like Yemen as mentioned. That system allowed Jews to flourish in commerce and the like, without a doubt, as well as have some level of religious practice, but it's important to stress this was not idyllic as Zarfati's letter might imply. There were still specific taxes imposed on Jews and other non-Muslim minorities alone, and while Jews also got some benefits that Christians did not receive, also received more targeting in Ottoman society. This was likely due to their more prominent positions in cities, and thus while the Ottoman rulers were more apt to protect them, they also faced a world where antisemitism still was ample amongst their citizenry.
When it comes back tot he blood libel, and I swear I am getting to your question, the blood libel's importation did not begin in the 19th century, it only took hold and spread as far as it did then. We have records of the blood libel accusations being spread in the Ottoman Empire, for example, in the 15th century. However, Sultan Mehmed II, viewing Jews as dhimmi under his protection, decreed that his court specifically and not local tribunals should be the only ones who could hear accusations of blood libel (i.e. ritual murder). These cases continued to pop up in the 16th century, too. However, they were so few and far between that they may even have died out as accusations for quite some time.
Thus what happened is not that it began in the 19th century, but that they made their way there yet again at an opportune time for their spread, and I think I was imprecise in how I described it in the prior answer. As Cohen remarks in a later chapter of the book I've been citing:
The myth persists to this day. That’s not to say it was all bad; Jews typically looked with such favor upon this because it was often even worse in other parts of the world, and there were good stretches of relations, but it was by no means utopic or peaceful in full. It is only by comparison to the outbreaks in Europe that one could view Jewish life under Muslim rule as entirely an interfaith paradise.
I will also expand on this in one specific sense, and note that rising Jewish nationalism came after a rise in blood libel incidents, and may have been spread as mentioned by Christian Arab nationalists most of all, who sought to forge a pan-Arab unity through a common enemy. After all, the Damascus affair of 1840, involving ritual murder accusations that caused many Jews to flee and others to be killed or imprisoned, demonstrated this rise though it did not yet signify a complete departure from the dhimma framework yet that was wobbling and soon to fall apart due to the rise of antisemitism and competing nationalisms in earnest.