I'd consult a real estate attorney here. If the legal description of the property is correct in the documents this may be a challenging suit.
I've put out a few calls to real-estate attorneys this morning, but have been playing phone tag since. The legal description of property is correct unfortunately, however, where I feel I have a case is:
Legally the realtor was required to disclose that he was related to the seller, and the location he advertised looks like he literally scooted it over to be outside of the flood zone. He works for one of the major national real-estate companies, and has been in selling land in this area for over 20 years. This is a pretty big mistake for any professional to make, especially when it is happening with a family member undisclosed.
NAL - As others have posted, you really need a real estate attorney for this. What it's going to come down to is, if suing is going to cost more that whatever remedy you are seeking. Each side - win, loose or draw, usually pay their own legal fees.
The maps he provided on his listing left no question as to where the land boundaries are located. His sign was centered between the steaks on the land, which turns out to be place on the neighbors plot of land instead. There really wasn't any reason to question the location, and I guess this is where I messed up. I trusted a 30 year, well known professional, working for one of the biggest real-estate agencies to actually know the location of a plot of land that was selling, and one that turns out to have been in his family for almost 2 decades.
It was in the disclosure paperwork, but all of the assessor maps are way off by 100s of feet in this area, and all it showed was a tiny red dot next to the flood zone, so I called FEMA myself, and the lady I spoke to said you only have a tiny corner in the flood zone... so I went back to the property, and compared the FEMA flood boundary with the stakes that were place on the plot of land, and felt comfortable that my land was comfortably out of the wash.
In that the legal description is correct, what you will be suing the seller for (their real estate agent is just an agent representing the seller) is the miss-representation of the lot in terms of staking it not correctly. That said, it's really your responsibility to validate this before closing. It looks like you really didn't do your own due diligence in terms of this property.
Not disagreeing with you, but... How much does it count that the real estate agent was bound by law to disclose that he was related to the seller prior to closing of escrow, and he didn't? I think that information would have made me much more skeptical about the whole thing.
With the answer (or estimates) to those questions - you can determine if suing is worthwhile. No sense in suing if it's going to cost $30K to sue (legal costs) only to recover $20K. Also, the values are just guesstimates - they may easily over run by 50% or more. Also, you may win a substantial judgement - however be judged responsible for say 50% for not doing your own due diligence and have the judgement whacked in half. Suing is not all sunshine and moonbeams.
Just went through all the agreements, no family disclosure. I have a paid consultation on Monday with a real estate attorney who was recommended by my escrow company. After a 30 minute phone conversation, and sending her my research, plus all the contracts, she feels I have a case, and is willing to represent me Woo hoo.
I would suggest going back through your closing documents, looking for some type of disclosure that they had you sign during the paperwork signing blizzard - indicating that there was a relationship between the agent and the seller. If you don't find one (and they usually hide the disclosure somewhere - depends on the state, maybe even just a box checked in the sales agreement) - but it's usually somewhere in there.
So, you also need to ask, how your own actions or lack there of (not getting a survey, etc.) will affect the case?
You need to ask if the attorney has had cases like this before and their outcome. Also, ask about prior case law, in terms of - does it support your position or not.
It appears that you have two potential areas - 1) family disclosure on the agent's part; and 2) misrepresentation of where the lot lines actually are. You need to ask about the second item also - particularly in terms of what your own responsibilities are, and how they may be judged by the court - and what mitigations you can present (county records not being accurate, etc.).
Thank you! I finally got a hold of a lawyer, and yes, they pointed out that their bill will likely cost more than what I was planning on suing for, 12,000. However, she will send a letter to the realtors boss on my behalf ($400). She thinks they will probably toss a few thousands my way to shut me up, with conditions that I don't smear their name on social media or report them the realtors board. I'd be happy with that. Guess the hard part is feeling like I was taken by a game of bait and switch.
Due to COVID, the earliest I could have gotten just an estimate for a survey would have been in 4 weeks, and couldn't say how long it would have taken them to actually do the work.