Depending on your location, you may be able to sue in small claims court. You would be able to find the forms to get started on your county courthouse (if you're in the US).
If that amount is above the small claims limit in your area (which it may be, that's near or over the cutoff in many places), you would need to speak to an attorney.
During this time, if you want your credit to be un-tanked, you may want to make the payments yourself and then recover the money from him.
Winning won't automatically make the money appear in your account. You may have to repeatedly go to court to enforce the judgement against him.
I'm not saying "don't sue" - by no means am I saying that. But in addition to legal aid you may want to talk to an accountant or financial advisor about your best plan to recover from this, since a lawsuit is not an automatic fix to your issues.
If I do get the help of an attorney, what attorney specialty would I be looking for? Also, can't they garnish wages?
Winning won't make money appear in his account. If there are times he can't pay, then he can't pay. Just because he owns a lot of expensive things does not mean he has money; in fact, the people who spend the most are often the ones with the least money (see also, his previous bankruptcy).
Right now, I need to make a clear statement that what he did is NOT ok and that I'm not afraid of taking him to a higher authority.
I'm way better at money than my father. I don't use credit anymore and have budgeted in the extra $500 expense. It sucks because I was hoping to buy a house myself at some point, but we'll see.
Yes, but that's part of "enforce the judgement" and "it's not automatic". It's not guaranteed to be part of the initial judgement, and getting it set up may take months. He may try to hide from it - some people are vindictive enough to, say, quit their job so that they have no income to be garnished.
A finance attorney should be able to help you out. If you have communication with him regarding the debt (even text messages talking about it) that makes the case much, much easier; the history where you can show he has previously paid on it will also be helpful.
Despite what Reddit Financial Authorities may tell you, this may not actually be your best financial option. Especially since this account is ruining your credit history. With no new lines of credit, you may have a more difficult time recovering from this.
In as much as it's the entire reason you're in this situation right now. He didn't steal your identity to open the cards; you opened the accounts and gave him permission to use them. It means that you can't just walk away from it, and are liable to the creditors for the debt.