Grandpa's estate probably should have been probated. Especially so given that his will was apparently not perfectly clear in application and that his estate was of some substance.
You're certainly entitled to retain a probate attorney to dig into the handling of your grandfather's estate. That said, it really isn't very clear that there's likely to be any upside for you in that endeavor. Certainly you'd want to get as quickly as possible in that engagement whether your investment in that attorney was likely to lead to anything to justify the expense.
Your remedy would be to go to probate court, ask to be named executor, and then make the filings to ask the court to order that she produce his will and to account for what she sold. If it turns out she was named in the will that does not benefit you. If you were named, that would be a different matter.
Thank you for your information. It's not that I want to get anything out of the estate. She (my so called "mother") is a horrible person, not to mention a thief. I know my grandmother left me her jewelry because she told me so before she died. But aside from that I don't expect a monetary return. However, there were debts that should have been paid with my grandfather's money before anything went to her, IF it was supposed to go to her. She was NOT a joint account holder with my grandfather. In fact, he hated her and just turned off his phone so she would quit calling him. He said she was a vulture just waiting for him to die. That is why I am floored that he "left everything to her." Somehow she sold his property...would she have had to forge his name? How could she do this without his signature being notarized? More than anything I just want to know who is legally responsible for oversight of these things?
She should not have been able "clean out" his bank account unless she was named as joint owner on it, and in that case she was probably the rightful owner.
The probate court is responsible, in general. But the court does not act until someone asks it to act. So, in reality, the answer is: you are. If you want something done, you have to put it in motion.