If you give birth to a child and he believes that child to be his, yes: he can go to court to establish himself as the father and establish access to the child.
However, there is no need for him to paint you as a bad mother or take the child away from you in order to establish himself as the child's father. That is done purely through a DNA match. He may try to paint you as a bad mother if he chooses to go for full custody, but this is almost certainly a bluff. It is incredibly difficult to get a child removed completely from either parent, the bar is incredibly high, and he would be forced to show proof of your lack of parenting fitness (personal issues he has with you will be considered irrelevant).
Likely what will happen if you choose to have the child is he will establish himself as the child's father, you will then be due financial support from him, and he will likely get some form of visitation with the child while the child is an infant. As the child grows, a shared custody schedule will be what the court is in favor of.
You will not lose your child over unsubstantiated lies. It takes much, MUCH more than that. You certainly will not lose your child just because you considered abortion and changed your mind. You will probably have to co-parent with him if he chooses to establish himself as the father and be in the child's life. There's nothing you can do about that, as the child's father and mother have equal rights to parent under the law. Whether or not he chooses to physically parent the child, he will have an obligation to provide financial support for the child.
That's largely bullshit but if he is the father he can go to court to probably get 50/50. You don't have to show him anything.
You won't lose your baby unless you do something pretty horrific, like get into a drunk driving crash with the baby in the car.
Thank you, I’ve been crying all day. He has more money than me and comes from a family that’s better off. I just get so scared that he could take my baby. All I’ve ever done was lie.
OP, please do not let these people pressure you into doing something you don't want to do. The choice to abort or not is entirely up to you, and they cannot force you to do so no matter what they say.
I know this is very overwhelming, but every manipulative ex in the world says that they're going to win full custody of a newborn and the other parent will get nothing. That just simply isn't true in the vast majority of cases.
No. If you want the baby, keep the baby. He has ZERO rights over you right now, ZERO power. Once you have the baby, then he can go to court and establish paternity and work with a court for visitation. The court will not look kindly if he shows his true colors in court, but that's another issue.