The term ‘race’ is problematic to use when discussing the Irish and in my research I always use the term 'anti-Irish prejudice'. That said, however, the idea that the Irish were inferior absolutely predated the mid 19th century. Although anti-Irish sentiment accelerated in this period, was framed in pseudo-scientific terms (which gave it some credibility at the time), and became widespread in the contemporary press, it had its roots in the 12th century.
Giraldus Cambrensis, or Gerald of Wales (1146-c.1223) was a British royal clerk and historian who has a lot to answer for: he travelled to Ireland after the Norman Invasion and was the first non-Irish person to write about Ireland. In 1188, he wrote Topographia Hibernica (The Topography of Ireland) - a detailed account of the flora, fauna and the people of Ireland. His less-than-complimentary descriptions of the “character, customs and habits” of the Irish fascinated readers in England and Europe and really took hold, and continued to influence perceptions of Ireland and the Irish for centuries. He describes the native Irish as “barbarous” and “living themselves like beasts”; he portrays them as backward and opposed to progress; he criticises their physical appearance and clothing. His views were enormously influential and long lived. By portraying the Irish as uncivilised barbarians, Cambrensis provided justification for colonisation - suggesting that the Irish were in need of civilising and were undeserving of their land. His second book about Ireland, The Conquest of Ireland, also describes the Irish as fierce and barbarous and, like Topography, continued to be read for centuries. It is widely accepted in Irish historiography that Gerald of Wales initiated the narrative that the Irish were inferior and ‘in need’ of ruling, and his views influenced thinking and writing well into the early modern period. These sentiments never really went away and then - to skip over several centuries of complex history - intensified and became even more widespread in the 19th century.
Sarah E. McKibben, ‘In their “owne countre”: Deriding and Defending the Early Modern Irish Nation after Gerald of Wales’, Eolas: The Journal of the American Society of Irish Medieval Studies, 8 (2015), pp. 39-70.
But Gerald covers most of the same points in his Description of Wales. Describing, for example, their propensity for incest:
In much the same way as for us, the notion of being 'uncivilised' has lots of meanings in the middle ages. These can range from cultivation of manners and lifestyle, to a lack of religion/morals, to poor governance, to backwards modes of life. This can even take on quasi-anthropological ideas of stages of civilisation, as when Gerald says of the Irish that:
F. X. Martin, ‘Gerald of Wales, Norman Reporter on Ireland’, Studies: An Irish Quarterly Review, 58, 231 (Autumn 1969), pp. 279-292.
Thanks for this detailed response. Had no idea about Gerald of Wales and his highly influential polemic works.
Michelle P. Brown, ‘Gerald of Wales and the "Topography of Ireland": Authorial Agendas in Word and Image’, Journal of Irish Studies, 20 (2005), pp. 52-63.