Legally speaking, you have little to no involvement in your boyfriend's dispute with his ex. That's between the two of them. You also have no legal right to a relationship with his other daughter. The only person in your relationship who can manage this is your boyfriend, and for you the advice mostly boils down to figuring out how his choices affect your goals.
If you want him to advocate for being in his daughter's life, say so, and support him as he finds a lawyer and navigates the process to establish custody and visitation. Be prepared to make some adjustments if you share finances, as child support is almost guaranteed to be part of this and it's usually paid to the parent with primary custody.
Your boyfriend can file in court to get an order for a paternity test and to amend the birth certificate (or, if the child was born during their marriage or shortly afterwards, to amend the birth certificate based on his presumed marital paternity), and from there can file to force the issue of visitation and custody. His ex can't stop him from doing that, and if she won't comply with court orders, he can get additional orders that law enforcement intervene.
Family court is mostly doable without a lawyer, but I'd strongly recommend he try to have one as it's a huge help. Many organizations in Colorado exist to help lower-income parents find representation for family disputes, and he may be able to get a referral through a legal aid group or through the state bar.
His other option, if he prefers, is to leave the status quo as it is, and have no legal relationship with his own child. He will see his other daughter at the mother's discretion, which might be "not at all.".
Were they married when the baby was born? If so, there's a . Any chance she lied about that aspect when the baby was born?
During the final divorce hearing was a parenting plan not put into place? If not the best thing y'all can do is find a good lawyer (one that specializes in father's rights) and take it to court for visitation or 50/50 split custody. Family court can b brutal just fyi. Unfortunately it's the route that has to b taken sometimes. She can't keep him away from his child out of spite.