NAL. You did not attempt to not pay from the beginning, the cashier made a HUGE mistake by giving you the gas someone else paid for. Pay back the $20 and you should be fine. You might wanna let the gas station manager know about this event though, it sounds like the cashier got aggressive when they had to fix their own mistake.
Because the point-of-sale system will not allow another sale go through for that pump amount if somebody's already prepaid by card (on incorrect pump).
Or... she's asking for cash because she ran her own personal card through the machine to obtain an interest-free / ATM-fee-free cash advance by obtaining the money from a cash-paying customer. I've personally done that before and I once spent a decade working in gas stations.
Once the OP pumped the gas that the prepay was on then the system is cleared to allow another sell to go through. The problem was that the clerk needed to enter a $20 dollar sale to charge to the OPs card. What does the clerk ring up to charge to the OPs card?
There is a technical limitation at a lot of gas stations that actually would prevent this. Many gas stations do not have the ability to just ring up gas without authorizing the pump, and on a credit card when a sale is authorized on the pump if the gas isn't pumped the sale is refunded. So the cashier might not have a way to charge $20 worth of gas to a credit card without then dispensing $20 worth of gas. Yes, in a rational world the cashier would have some way of using some generic gas department key to do this, but many stations have disabled this ability to fight cashier fraud.
If the error was caught quick enough, that would have been the solution. Unfortunetly, by the time you got inside the cashier had already just rang up a second cash sale to fix their mistake and let the person who paid for gas get it. Now their drawer is $20 short and they probably have no way to manually ring up a $20 credit gas sale and refund a $20 cash gas sale because owners often deactivate those register functions due to cashiers using them to steal.