Some background for an international audience: these people come at the last second, when everyone has already been paid for their land and houses, moved out to new houses somewhere else and the necessary work has been completed so that the village can be torn down. Yes, there is a small number of people who protest against it continuously (as the article mentions), but the real uproar always happens when it's already too late.
We had a similar demonstration in the last few years: a small piece of forest (Hambach), which had been steadily felled over two decades (I grew up there, so Pepperidge Farm remembers when it was still a real forest) was to be felled so the mine could expand to its planned limits. These guys showed up and suddenly everyone pretended that those few hundred meters of forest was mightily important and had to be protected - when in the preceding decades no one gave a shit and the little rest of a forest was barely enough to be considered a system.
I do sometimes wonder at the fact that the Greens basically created their own demand: by doing their best to get rid of nuclear power and block its expansion, they are one of the main players who are responsible for the fact that Germany still needs to burn this much coal and gas.
It's like the people who glue themselves to our streets: they are only hurting the average Joe and not the people whose minds they actually need to change.
What should be noted is that the Greens had a plan to replace nuclear. They didn't really create this "demand" of coal. To get rid of nuclear they also decided to massively fund renewables, which were just a niche way of creating energy, to jump start them. This plan did work, but in the 2010s the coalition of CDU and FDP decided to slow down renewable to a screeching halt, and they killed the solar industry in Germany. succesfully slowing down renewables and killing off an entire industry sector was something Altmaier ( minister for economy and energy ) saw as a success, as something positive.. Oh and in the later 2010s wind was also slowed down. Not to a degree like solar but still.
Now I am against energy production using coal. It's messing up our air, environment and has caused my generation to grow up with a multitude of respiratory problems. It should be stopped immediately and replaced by other sources. But I can't help feeling that these demonstrators are not targeting the right people/situations or that they just want to do "something", as they are nowhere to be seen when all these developments are put into motion but show up when it's already been decided and execution time is right around the corner.