Or consider making an attempt to graduate, finding an alternate form of education if possible. Those that obtain, at a minimum, a GED or high school diploma have a gigantic leg up on life.
Not to sound rude, but I'm well aware that I can work and go to school. My issue is that I'm not receiving adequate schooling due to being homeschooled. (Formally, I stopped being taught at the sixth grade.) So if I work while 'in school', I'm worried about the repercussions my mother could face. I apologise if I sounded rude at all.
You should not drop out. Find a program you can do to work to get a GED. There are a lot of other options then dropping out.
I do appreciate the assistance. The issue that I'm facing is that I'm turning 16 this month, but I'm unsure of what to do. I aim to get my GED later on, ideally when I have the chance to, but for right now I'm trying to focus on the short term. From my understanding, getting a job right now would bring attention to my mother, and I'm trying to avoid that as much as possible; would you mind if I asked for some more advice on this subject? I'm quite lost myself.
I apologize if what I posted was confusing; but I did state that I wanted to help with bills. Its not that I consider my education inferior, and more so that in this moment in time, I need to bring in money to assist with paying rent and bills, and by getting a job I would be attracting unwanted attention to my mother, and to answer you question, yes, my mother was homeschooling me, but for financial and health reasons, I haven't been able to be taught formally for the last 5 years; however I have educated myself to the extent that I can.
I am homeschooled by my mother, not through online classes; to the extent that I have never gone to public school a day in my life. Due to financial and health reasons, I haven't been able to be taught formally since the sixth grade, however I have attempted to educate myself as much as I can. The current issue that I'm facing is that by getting a job to financially assist my mother, I would be attracting unwanted legal attention to her; therefore I'm wanting to drop out and to pursue and further my education almost immediately after I drop out, to be able to work and work towards a GED. I hope this cleared up any confusions, and I greatly appreciate any advice you can give me.