The instances and complexity of ethnogenesis in North America is fascinating. For this answer I will dive into the history of the U.S. Southeast, but know there are plenty of other examples throughout North American history.
Around 1000CE complex chiefdoms arose throughout the eastern portion of North America, with the seat of power organised around large mound complexes. Cahokia, one of the earliest, largest, and most well known of these Mississippian chiefdoms, boasted over a hundred earthen mounds spread out over six square miles, and was estimated to be the home of more than twenty thousand people. Cahokia was part of the Early Mississippian period, and for the next seven centuries a cyclic pattern of consolidation, mound complex development, and then abandonment of the site characterized power ebbs and flows across the Southeast. Despite the rise and fall of various seats of power, archaeologists emphasize overall regional stability throughout this time. That stability would be challenged, then shattered after contact.
For the first few centuries following European contact the cyclic pattern of Mississippian mound complexes continued. Early Spanish explorers describe densely populated settlements surrounding monumental earthen mounds with micos (chief) able to control sufficient numbers of fighters to decimate the Narvaez entrada in Florida, and push Soto around the Southeast. While these early Spanish incursions might have destabilized a few chiefdoms, like Chicaza in Mississippi and Tascalusa in Alabama, stability continued, and some chiefdoms like the Caddo, Natchez, and Apalachee continued until the eighteenth century.
The arrival of English settlers in the South, and the emergence of the Native slave trade shattered the Southeast. While earlier scholars originally thought epidemic disease prompted societal collapse in the Southeast, we now know a combination of factors linked to the slave trade reshaped the region. Between 1685 and 1715 highly conservative estimates indicate the English, and their Native allies, enslaved 24,000-51,000 Indians and shipped them to plantations in the Caribbean. The slave trade set off a refugee crisis. Survivors tried to flee into the heart of the continent, displacing existing nations and sparking further conflict, and Spanish allied mission Indians fled south to the Keys where they begged for ship passage to Cuba to escape the slavers. Disease followed the slaving trails inland, prompting the first large verifiable smallpox epidemic in the late 1600s. A combination of slaving raids, warfare, disease, territorial displacement, and social upheaval shattered the Southeast.
From this shatterzone previously distinct populations began to consolidate and form coalescent societies. The Creeks, Cherokees, Chickasaws, and Choctaws grew in power as alliances of strenh and convenience allowed formerly disperse groups to stand against European encroachment. These new groups would play the game of empires, forging alliances with the French or English or Spanish, uniting in common defense or fighting between themselves as needed, to maintain land, resources, and sovereignty. While the popular perception of Native American history depicts a static people, the story of the Southeast shows dynamic populations adapting, coalescing, and thriving to the impacts of colonialism. Ethnogenesis was one successful path of survival.
Thank you for your answer: it opened a completely new perspective on these populations. In Europe, we're seldom taught about the differences between Native societies - when we think of American Indians, we picture the nomadic tribes of the Great Plains rather than the settled communities you've described.
Once during a lecture, a professor told us of a group of tribes which were considered "more civilized" to European eyes, residing in the Mississippi river area, namely Chickasaws, Choctaws, Creeks and Seminole (plus a couple more I can't remember, being six in total). He also stated that these people absorbed from Southern plantation owners the concept of wealthy life being possessing slaves and a plantantion, to the point of aligning towards the CSA.
Yes, the "Five Civilized Tribes", the Creek, Choctaw, Chickasaw, Cherokee, as well as the Seminole, in an effort to survive and maintain their sovereignty, chose a path that mirrored many aspects of the surrounding white communities.
To be so, so brief early American thought interpreted the world as divided into civilization and savagery. Native Americans often served as a foil for a developing sense of colonial, and then national, identity separate from the mother country. Civilized nations had personal ownership of land, farmed that land, used writing to remember important things, had gender roles that were recognizably similar to their own, and worshipped one God. The failure, either real or perceived, of Native American nations to conform to these rules of civilization was grounds for their removal, and if they refused to move, their extinction.
After U.S. independence, the power of those alliances with other European nations in the Southeast dwindled. To move forward with this new U.S. nation many in the Five Tribes continued previous traditions, or slightly modified those traditions, to conform to the American model. They already were sedentary agriculturalists who focused mainly on maize, but diversified into crops like cotton and tobacco for a growing global market. Marriage alliances between nations were vital before contact, and were likewise modified for survival. Among the Creek especially marriage alliances with Scottish traders and Creek mothers allowed for expansion into the market economy. As goods flowed in, so too did African slaves. Slavery existed in the Southeast before contact, but the English transformed the concept into the race based chattel slavery most identifiable in the American South. Members of the Five Tribes, like their neighbours, used slaves to work their fields and homes. The Cherokee scholar Sequoyah developed a written script for their language, and the nation used printing presses to publish newspapers and books in English and Cherokee. They developed a tribal government modeled on a constitutional republic. The 1825 Cherokee census showed they owned 33 grits mills, 13 saw mills, 69 blacksmith shops, as well as over 22,000 head of cattle and 46,000 sheep. As Cherokee John Ridge remarked in Philadelphia in 1832.
Now, this brings us to the Five Tribes. As mentioned in the previous post, they started coalescing in the late 1600s and grew to control large areas of the Southeast U.S. They benefited greatly from conflict between European nations in America, allying with the French or English or Spanish for trade goods and security. Wars in Indian Country could easily turn into worldwide conflicts, as seen with the Seven Years War, so these confederate Indian nations had real power to sway the destiny of the continent.
Neither full assimilation nor full resistance is adequate to characterize the history of these Five Tribes. They adapted, and grew, and changed, and persisted as needed. Ultimately, it would not be enough. The United States convinced itself the only way to save Native American nations from extinction was to move them west, across the frontier. The new nation used the very real threat of genocidal military action against those who refused to move west. The Cherokee fought removal in the courts, arguing before the Supreme Court against the policy, but most of the nation was force marched to Oklahoma, their homes and businesses pillaged by white settlers. Their lands, now free for further development, opened even more territory to slave-based agriculture.
I want to end this response by saying that I'm confident there are many more examples of ethnogenesis in indigenous North America. I chose to speak about the Haudenosaunee at lenh because there is extensive research an documentation of Haudenosaunee ethnogenesis. But the Americas before European conflict were full of societies, empires, and states that often gained power by uniting different political and social groups. One of these states was the Aztec Empire - more accurately, the Triple Alliance - began from an alliance between ethnolinguistically related but initially politically separate Mexica groups in the Valley of Mexico. I'm not sure I would make the claim that there was a process of Mexica ethnogenesis, but nor would I throw out that claim immediately. The splintering and reforming of ethnic groups is a common characteristic in human history; I do not think I would claim that it is truly limited to any specific region or time. More accurately I would say that it is a descriptive term which can be applied to some types of social evolution that are found throughout humanity.
This is a fascinating question. Thanks for asking it! I don't really know too much about the case you describe concerning the Franks or Langobards, so I can't speak to my examples being perfect versions of what happened with them. But I'll go off the description of ethnogenesis you're concerned with when you say "several groups of the same ethnicity, language and customs, possibly scattered tribes in origin...uniting in a greater entity speculated to have spanned from a loose confederation of tribes...to a more organized polity".
I'm mostly going to talk about one relatively well documented example of ethnogenesis the way you're describing it, applied to North America's indigenous peoples: the Haudenosaunee, or Iroquois.
Hart, J., & Brumbach, H. (2009).On pottery change and northern Iroquoian origins: An assessment from the Finger Lakes region of central New York. Journal of Anthropological Archaeology, 28(4), 367-381.