In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The Republicans, sought to restrict the growth of slavery into new states and territories, while leaving it alone where it already existed, believing that this was the best way to move forward as an industrialized society.
These are the things that billionaire controlled corporate media tells Republicans to be afraid of. So, his base will never figure it out. He's doing what the media tells the public what they want.
Controlling what people can and can't learn. Promoting nationalism. Cutting out any information that goes against the narrative of what the government wants. Targeting private businesses that goes against what he wants. Alternative facts. Reject anything that he doesn't like.
It's not even subtle. He's flat out taking the fascist playbook and applying it to Florida. He's changing the voting rules to make sure only Republicans win.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Seriously, read that again. And if you believe that, ask yourself, "Am I really that gullible to believe the person that told me that?". "Does the news organization think I'm dumb enough to believe it?".
Do you live in Florida? Florida has parents finding this stuff in schools There are school boards meetings with parents that can’t even repeat what these books have them Nothing about being gullible strictly informed by actual facts witnessed. The AP Black History course has Queer Theory as a chapter in the curriculum!
Queer theory should never be taught to anyone Oh by the way fascists reside only in the Democrat party That’s what history tells us You obviously have been indoctrinated by the revisionist history in the public schools.
It actually wasn’t, it was much more involved as it was a conflict between an industrialized society(the north/Republicans) and an agrarian based society(the south/Democrats), both of which had a different view on how society should be structured in order to grow the country.
Meanwhile, the Democrats, whom the spoils of slavery had enriched, and which enrichment was subsequently used to grasp political power, sought to expand slavery into new states and territories, thereby extending their power and influence over a growing nation.
Both Republicans and Democrats believed that if slavery were not allowed to expand into the new states and territories, over time, the Democrats would experience a loss in political power.
This belief, and the pushback of new states and territories against the institution of slavery, led the Democrats to instigate the Civil War, seeking to form their own country and maintaining positions of power, versus loosing political power over time by remaining in the union.
The true cause of the civil war, was a grasping for political power by the Democrat party, and slavery, or more rightly, the belief that there must be an expansion of slavery, was the excuse used, under the guise of states rights, to seek to maintain their political power.
To clarify my thinking, your contention is that the Civil War was solely about the abolition of slavery.
that the US federal government, on its own initiative, would have raised an army of 2,672,341 men, and declared war on the southern states solely for the purpose of abolishing slavery?
It had nothing to do with the Democrat party seeking to maintain their political power (which was based on slavery), and that had the Democrat party been willing to loose political power over time, (due to slavery not being expanded, and only maintained where it currently existed), with the result being that the Democrat politicians wouldn’t have formed the Confederacy and instigatedthe Civil War.
Based on contemporary writings at the time, it is a historical fact that the cotton based plantation economy, with cotton being the largest export of the entire United States in the 1860s, was the financial base underpinning both the political power structure, and ruling class structure of the southern states. Democrat politicians in the southern states, in an effort to maintain that financial base, actively legislated for the institution of slavery, within their states, and for the expansion of slavery into new states and territories.
Only when it became apparent that slavery would not be allowed to expand, and there would be an attendent loss of political power and influence by the southern states at the national level, did the southern Democrat politicians proceed with secession.
The Democrat politicians believed that forming the Confederate States of America would allow them to maintain political power, and continue with the cotton plantation based economy.
The north’s reason for fighting the civil war was not slavery, but maintaining the United States, and is most eloquently summed up by Abraham Lincoln when he said, “If I could save the Union without freeing any slave I would do it, and if I could save it by freeing all the slaves I would do it; and if I could save it by freeing some and leaving others alone I would also do that.”.
So yes, just like all civil wars, throughout all of history, the root cause boils down to a group of politicians grasping at political power.