For years I offered to make arrangements ahead of time for him to safely transition to permanently living in Denmark when his care became too much for her. This would have required completing the proper paperwork to re-establish his residency, getting a waiver for him to live full time in the house that’s only zoned for summertime use, setting up the dementia case worker with social services, establishing him with a new doctor and transferring the proper medical records and prescription info, getting Danish POA or guardianship before travel to ensure his finances were in order. There was a mountain of things that needed to be done prior to him boarding a plane. I have always agreed with his wishes to return for years because the system and quality of care over there is truly superior, and I’m glad he has access to it, but the way she did it was horribly dangerous and abusive. It would be like letting a child drive a car because they wanted to and technically you’re not their parent so knock yourself out! I begged her to wait and just give me a couple months to set all this up so we could transition him safely, and because she’s a fucking delusional control freak instead she chose isolation and abandonment, because it allows her to maintain control without intervention.
She has twice called blue shield and attempted to cancel his health insurance plan, and has wired him money and then instructed him to withdraw it all from the bank. She escorted him to two different Covid testing clinics and didn’t provide them his insurance info leaving unpaid bills in his name to potentially damage his credit.
Ask his social worker to change the phone number that way the calls will stop and don't allow anyone other than you or anyone you designate as a guardian from having access to your father. You have POA and should be able to keep a tight lid on his finances. Have a lawyer send her a letter asking her to stop all communications with your father. Does your father have a will and who is the beneficiary? If it's the girlfriend that's a big problem. I'm sorry for your dad and I'm so sorry you're having to deal with so much. I totally understand your frustrations and concerns.
I will absolutely do that on my next trip over. This post is primarily to seek advice on how she can be held responsible. I think I have done all that I can to secure him for now.
It sounds like you’re hitting a wall without him here. My experience with aps was not positive and I was surprised at the lack of action, but they did take a look. How were you offering to take over for the girlfriend but now you can’t? He needs to lose the us number and email address in lieu of a restraining order.
yoiu need to change the number and delete any email accounts he has, he needs a new email if she's using that to contact him. social media too if he uses that, but that's doubtful.
Anyone can abuse an elder without having a legal obligation to care for them. Think about all the scenarios where someone other than a spouse or medical provider is the abuser. She had extensive knowledge of his disease and limitations, had identified herself to his medical providers as his partner and care giver, paid for his health insurance and medical care, owned the house he lived in, and she was his primary healthcare directive designee.
Yes the Danish services he’s currently receiving are excellent and he will likely stay there permanently, assuming the family court approves the application for guardianship that the doctor and social worked submitted for him. They provide daily in home care now, and memory care facilities or nursing home when the time comes.
I set up find friends so I can track him from here, and on my next trip over I’ll change his number and set up the parental controls. I also have his email set up on my phone to monitor communications, and an auto responder telling anyone if they need a response to contact me. I’m sure the girlfriend loved that. The only thing I can’t see remotely are his SMS messages and calls.
If you’ll read my post you’ll see my difficulty hinges on the point that my father isn’t present in the country. Not the nature of the crime or wether it is illegal or not.
Funny, the Danish consulate in Los Angeles knows my father and the situation well. Back in 2019 he helped my father reclaim his Danish citizenship and recalls the girlfriend sort of bus driving the whole thing. He didn’t know about the Alzheimer’s at the time, but he did tell me he thought it was odd that the plan was for my dad to go to DK by himself and live alone given his difficulty navigating the process even at that stage. I called him to ask about my dads citizenship status because I was so worried they hadn’t done the right paperwork and he would just be rejected upon arrival. Still, there isn’t anything either embassy seems able or interested in doing because dad isn’t in the same country as his abuser anymore. Denmark can’t touch an American in America for crimes committed in America, and America doesn’t seem interested because victim is in Denmark. I’m looking for ways to hold her accountable outside normal elder abuse channels, because they all seem to require a present victim.
You’re the second person to suggest there might be an unknown life insurance policy and I hadn’t even thought of that, and it makes quite a lot of her behavior make sense. I just have no idea how I would even check on something like that.
How do I check for these kinds of policies? I’ve been through all his papers that on and find and there’s no evidence of a life insurance policy, and he had previously told me he has no will or trust. Not that he has ANY assets in the US. He only has his monthly social security and no other property or accounts.
I will contact the AG’s office. I suspected it would have to be pursued criminally. Thank you for the info!