Because your stepdaughter is a minor, this is a sensitive situation. You may want to speak to a social worker privately before you make any decisions.
What's likely is that you will end up treating them like adults: give them written notice to vacate your land, then take them to court to evict them if they don't leave. That'll take 60 days for the notice period and may take months if you have to evict, but it'll get them off your property eventually.
What's _possible_ is that you turn the issue over to CPS, who will investigate why your stepdaughter's mother thought it was appropriate to abandon her minor child. That will likely lead to a range of charges, both for your stepdaughter's parents (for child neglect) and for her boyfriend (for statutory rape), and may torpedo your chances at having a normal relationship with your stepdaughter when she grows up, but it may also get her out of what is clearly a bad situation here and now.
CPS' goals would be to get her into a home that's safe: with her parents, with a willing relative, or with a group home or foster family if necessary. However, given her age, it's possible she'd age out before she could be placed, and would effectively spend her last year as a minor bouncing around between temporary homes before going right back to her boyfriend when she turns 18. It's a bad situation and there are real risks of a bad outcome - the question is, is it a worse situation for her than the one she's in today?
Will cps take her into custody of neither parent will take her? I'm not trying to just throw her in the system but I think that would be best for my little kids if she wasn't around.
That's ultimately not your problem legally, but it is an important consideration as a member of her extended family and, I hope, as an adult in her life who cares about her. I recognize you also would not want to house her and her boyfriend even if they were both adults, because the relationship between you has become so awful, and that's completely valid. Giving them notice, informing her mother that she's going to need to come and collect her daughter, and washing your hands of the child welfare issue may be the best of a range of bad options.
_Maybe_, but they can't force her to participate any more than you can, and can't force medication on her without her consent unless she's an immediate danger to herself or to others.
Would cps do a psych evaluation on her. I'm trying to find a doctor to see her but I can't find anything local. I think I may have found an option this morning but it's something she has to fill out and I can't make her do it. She needs to be on meds.
You may well be right that the right medication would improve her life, but it's up to her to decide that's what she wants to do, even before she turns 18.