In the period immediately before British dominance, the "lingua franca" was Persian. Persian was the official language of the Mughal court, so all law proclamations were issued in Persian, every government official of any meaningful rank spoke fluent Persian, and ministers usually spoke Persian when addressing the Emperor. Many Mughal-era officials were themselves immigrants from Persia, but even native Indians, including Hindus, spoke Persian. At that time it was even common for Brahmins to study both Sanskrit and Persian simultaneously. Even areas of India that were never under Mughal rule, like Nepal or Assam, still used Persian for their communications with the Mughals and even with each other. In the late 18th century when the Mughal empire started to collapse, and new independent states started to emerge, some rulers like the Maratha abandoned the use of Persian for domestic matters, and started producing legal documents in Marathi or other languages. However, within the context of diplomacy with other rulers, Persian remained dominant. When the British first started to seize territory in India, they too adopted this tradition, and so many of the earliest treaties and other legal documents signed by the East India Company were actually in Persian. It wasn't until after many decades of British rule, and in particular after the events of 1857, that Persian disappeared from India.
Prior to the Mughals, however, and especially prior to the establishment of the Delhi sultanate, the lingua franca was Sanskrit. Sanskrit is a unique language, since the Classical form that we know today does not seem to have ever been anyone's native language, and instead from its very inception it was a language limited to the scholarly elite. Classical Sanskrit was one of the first languages in world history to be standardized, with an explicit and well-defined grammar, and the man who standardized it, Panini, was living at a time (400bc) when the common people had already shifted away from speaking Proto-Indo-Aryan towards instead speaking various "Prakrit" languages. Panini himself seems to have spoken a dialect of Gandhari. But he developed Sanskrit as a standardized language, based on but also distinct from the language of the Vedas, that would be intelligible enough to all speakers of Prakrit languages (well, to educated speakers at least) that it could be used to facilitate communication between them. And that's exactly the role Sanskrit played. Almost all of the poetry and literature we have from the post-Mauryan period through to the medieval period is in Sanskrit, despite being composed by people from wildly different regions of India, because composing in Sanskrit allowed poets to seek patronage from kings all over the continent, whereas Prakrit literature would only be patronized by a few regional kings at best. Even non-Prakrit speaking kingdoms, like the Kamarupa, Chalukyas, Pallavas, Cholas, etc., all patronized Sanskrit literature, and biographical accounts and epigraphical inscriptions suggest that it was also spoken by the Kings and their ministers. Interestingly, thanks to the spread of Buddhism, Sanskrit enjoyed this role even outside of India to an extent. Early Chinese records mention that when ambassadors visited from places like the Pyu city-states or Funan, those diplomatic exchanges were carried out in Sanskrit, since it was the only common language they shared.
Sanskrit and Persian both have a very rich history in India. Hope Indians study such languages and preserve their heritage.
I think Marathas were the only one in India to not have Persian as the language of the court if I remember correctly. They were trying to move away from the "Islamic" influences and towards the Sanskritic Indian words.