Yes, iirc under newer spanish law, violence against women by former or current romantic partners is considered a sexist crime (if attacker is a man, that is).
Yeah I’m just trying to learn why that is considered a sexist crime. I would just consider a violent revenge / psychopathic crime. What in particular makes it into a sexist crime? Just if it’s a man attacking a woman?
Gender-based violence occurs usually when the man believes the woman has done something that a woman, precisely, is not supposed to do, based on his beliefs about how women, precisely, should behave. Hence sexist.
Well, that sounds similar to when people ask about 'reverse racism'. To say that gender is socially constructed (and go ahead and shoot me down for being 'woke', but Simone de Beauvoir came up with this many decades ago....), just like that racism is 'systemic' means it's built into our societal values, and also built in to the way behaviors/actions such as domestic violence/murder are punished (or not - see Russia or conservative Islamic societies). So that doesn' t mean roles can' t be reversed, it just means that most of the time, for reasons pertaining to these values and the fact that the majority of people adhere to them unconsciously, the roles are not reversed. Femicide is a thing because in the vast majority of cases it is women being murdered by their partner/ex-partner, not men. And this is the case because this thing called sexism exists, where one sex is being opressed by the other thanks to a complex and historically robust system of values (beliefs/accepted behaviors). That doesn't exclude nor is it contradicted by the fact that there may be cases where women kill men! Does this help at all?
If you want to debate you need to actually read what I am saying. The lion analogy was the tip of the iceberg of my argument. You yourself said that laws are clearly not followed all the time since women are killed and just explained the phenomenon in a specific way. Just to summarise , we are discussing why women are , lots of the time , the recipients of violence , in effect the recipients of the result of breaking a law. So if you say that women are facing these issues because of a specific set of complex beliefs , values etc then I can prove you wrong just by pointing out that this is more widespread then you think and that the absence of supposedly sexist beliefs and values ( like in lions who are incapable of " believing" and " valuing") doesnt equate to the absence of females being a common recipient of violence. Look at math , disproving a proof requires only one example. Not that this is anywhere close to math , just an analogy again.
OK, I apprciate your analogy, but it's not a question of logic, but your underlying assumptions. Your premise is that humans are just like lions. So be it! Then let's not even have a society then, let's not have laws, let's not have equality between the sexes.....I'm a let someone else take over, because my palm has now completely covered my face, and I have nothing further to say.
' Femicide is a thing because in the vast majority of cases it is women being murdered by their partner/ex-partner, not men. And this is the case because this thing called sexism exists, where one sex is being opressed by the other thanks to a complex and historically robust system of values (beliefs/accepted behaviors). That doesn't exclude nor is it contradicted by the fact that there may be cases where women kill men! Does this help at all?'.
So if your palm is covering your face maybe it is because my point is eluding you , or more likely because you have no other arguments. Try to admit when you are unable to form cohesive arguments instead of corrupting my point and insulting me. The only way debates can lead to answers and to the solution of issues is if we actually debate with the long term goal of solving the issues instead of just trying to support a specific narrative and proving ourselves right. Surely in that you must agree. And if you agree then act like you agree.
But our belief systems are very different, and I’m not interested in trying to convince you. Take the ‘win’ my friend!