In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Stores should always have assisted/traditional cashier checkout available, and I'd be okay with laws requiring that they do. Not just because people like you don't want to check themselves out, but because people with disabilities and people with different needs are much better served by them. Elsewhere in this thread, I'm arguing in favor of the usefulness of self-checkout lines. The flip side to this, though, is that I'd be completely against a store having that as the only option.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Naw. The store I shop at has not only self service lines, but also a scan as you go, and a kiosk to use to checkout. They random customer checks and scan a couple of items to make sure you scanned them. They also do a massive curbside business where employees shop for you.
Hey, it worked for the wheelright industry. Thank God they legislated that every car have at least one wagon wheel. It's just like when the heroic government stepped in and banned automatic elevators to keep lift attendants' jobs alive! /s.
I don't like this. The problem of stores not treating or paying employees well isn't caused by self-checkouts or automation. Removing automation and self-checkouts won't make stores treat employees better or pay them more. Automation and other innovations that create a need for less labor should help everybody, but in practice those things often benefit the corporations to the detriment of workers. That's the fault of the system, and it's the very foundations of that economic system that need to change.
It's in the same category as automation in that it streamlines the business to require less labor. A whole lot of customers are just fine with self checkout, and many actually prefer it. From that point of view, it's hardly a burden.
I prefer to go to self-checkout a lot of the time because it's actually faster for me than going through a line. Self checkouts allow more lines to operate at the same time, and allows checkout to happen quicker. I can control how my groceries are bagged. And, as a bonus, I don't have to deal with a person.
I prefer to order fast food from the kiosk so that I have complete control over how my order is entered into the system. I don't have to repeat myself to somebody who is distracted and might put it through incorrectly anyway. I can explore the menu options at my leisure and don't feel on the spot.
Self checkout still requires employees to monitor and help customers, it just requires less of them. In a different economic system that would be a good thing, and that's my point. Our system is built backwards in this regard. Innovations that require less labor and increase productivity don't actually benefit the people who are doing the labor or being productive. Instead, it just allows employers to extract more money for their labor, while leaving more people out of work. If we want to solve that problem, discouraging or banning systems that reduce the need for labor is looking at it from the wrong end. It can be band-aid on the problem, but it doesn't address what's causing the bleed in the first place.