Let’s be clear whether“dating,” is a euphemism for sexual activity. It is perfectly legal for a thirty year old to take a fifteen year old to the opera, to share a chocolate malt at the malt shop, and to stroll along the beach discussing Kierkegaard’s existentialist views. What they generally cannot do is have sexual contact with each other.
So if young Lochnivar is in California and his Ellen fair is in Maine, their relationship may be perfectly legal.
Federal law also prohibits crossing a state line with the intent to engage in a sexual act for which the traveler can be charged with a crime.
It is always illegal in California for anyone, regardless of their age, to have sex with someone under 18. It doesn't matter if they are both under 18, but if they are within 3 years it is a less serious offense.
You can date non-sexually anyone you want. It's also fine to be online friends with anyone of any age on the internet, provided no one under 18 features in sexually explicit images, as that is a Federal offence.
The age of consent in California is 18 with no close in age exceptions except that a relationship with less than a 3 year age difference is a misdemeanour rather than a felony. So any physical interaction in California is a no-no till you reach 18. There is a possibility you would not be prosecuted for a trivial offence such as this but it would be foolish to rely on that.
In Maine however the situation is different. The age of consent there is 16, so any physical sexual interaction in a 18/16 relationship would be legal.
To make life extra complex there are Federal laws relating to crossing state lines and sexual activity . I believe it does not apply to your relationship. The relevant section read:
This statement is incorrect. In most states whether you can legally have a sexual relationship under the age of consent (16-18) is defined by the age difference, not whether one party is older than 18 or not. There are a few badly drafted laws in some states, but I suspect judicial rulings sort out any such problems.
If anyone cares to challenge/correct anything I've said here feel free because I'm not a US citizen or a lawyer (yet).
If the 16 year old travelled to Maine, you would presumably not be engaging in prostitution or some other criminal sexual activity, so as far as I am aware it would be legal for the younger person to go to Maine. I'm not sure whether parental permission is required to travel from Maine to California.
How are you dating at all if the other person is on the other side of the country? Anyway, the laws exist to protect minors but when the age is so close and the parents of the minor support the relationship and nobody is secretly a predator or a grooming creep it’s probably gonna be fine. But if someone is having sex w a minor that is statutory rape, even in a consensual relationship, and they could be charged.
The 18 year old would be not be committing a Federal offence if they travelled to California to have a physical relationship because it does not match the definition of 'illicit sexual conduct' however again it would be a misdemeanour under state law.