In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
The media wants to make everything into a horse race because it drives engagement but if Democrats don't win the WH they will have fucked up real, real bad.
2024 will be a major clusterfuck. Even if the Democrats outperform expectations and hold onto the White House it's possible that the Senate could flip to the GOP simply due to the map. The Democrats will have to defend three seats in Trump won states, those being West Virginia, Montana, and Ohio. If the Republicans flip those three seats they'll have the Senate majority back. This is especially considering the fact that across the last two presidential elections, hardly any states have split their tickets between President and Senate. No state did so in 2016 and in 2020 only Maine did, and that was only because the GOP had an incumbent there who was widely known for easily being able to get crossover support.
Well, most of those states probably aren't voting for Democrats anyways. It just depends on if Manchin, Tester, and Brown are running and who their GOP opponents are.
To be fair, people have underestimate Manchin before, but he's succeeded to date. My default is honestly that he'll continue to do so, and that partisanship is unusually useless in predicting the results of his races. It's also worth noting that the other two in question (Tester and Brown), both still heavily outperformed partisanship - both by over ten points if I remember correctly.
Republicans didn't win the popular vote before they killed hundreds of thousands of their own voters with COVID and there's no reason to the Republicans are going to stop melting down between now and 2024.
That said, simple logistics could screw the Democrats. Even if they win most of the competitive races, that'd still be a loss, and likely a significant one. Honestly even 'just' losing one Senate seat (which assuming Warnock wins would leave Democrats with 50) while winning the presidency and the House would count as an arguably impressive performance.