There's not really any archaeological evidence of helmets in battle. The evidence viking age helmets is in fact extremely scant; the is the only reasonably-whole one that's been found. Obviously this is a rare find and the grave was definitely an unusually rich one, also containing chain mail, four shields, two spears, a fancy sword (Petersen type S), several sacrificed oxen and other stuff. Apart from Gjermundbu what we have is just a half-dozen or so finds of fragments.
In contrast, spears, swords, axes and shields are all very common grave goods. Chain mail less so, but it does happen, and fragments have been found here and there. It's not unlikely it was a luxury item.
Ok, so lamellar armour. Lamellar armour from the Viking Age has been found at the part of Birka called the 'Garrison'.
So 'viking' helmets as seen online are typically either not Scandianavian; they're Anglo-Saxon or Norman or some such, or they're Scandinavian but not from the Viking Age. Most commonly it's the helmets found in the boat grave fields of Valsgärde and Vendel, which are from the Vendel Age (550-800); the centuries preceding the Viking Age. Many of these are even greater luxury items; the Valsgärde is encrusted with precious stones - garnet. If the luxury alone isn't evidence that these were probably more ceremonial than practical, some of them had parts such as the nose-guard attached so flimsily there was no way it would have served its function in actual combat. So that's the low-down on helmets. This isn't to say Scandinavians of the Viking Age didn't have helmets, but there's no direct evidence of them being used, much less commonly so.
An aside on the name first; it was not an actual garrison, it's just the name for an excavated area where a lot of weapons were found, which lead Arbman, who excavated parts of it in 1934 to propose it was a garrison compound for the defense of the town. Later excavations have shown there were multiple buildings in the area of varying functions, from housing to workshops. So if someone says 'lamellar armour was found in the Birka garrison' it's taking the name of the area much too literally.
Some of the lamellae were found already in Hjalmar Stolpe's excavations in 1877, and even more in the big excavations that occurred in the early 1990s. In total these were determined (Stjerna 2004) to be 8 different types of lamellae, most closely resembling those found in Balyk Sook in central Altai. In other words, it's steppe nomad armor. There are metal fittings with oriental designs at the same part of the site as well.
This is further evidence of Birka being a gateway to the east. As is well-known, vikings from that area of Sweden frequently traveled through the Rus' areas down the Dniepr to Constantinople and in some cases down the Volga, possibly going as far as the Caspian (in the case of Ingvar the Far-Travelled). Scandinavians traded with the Khazars, both directly and through their mutual trading partner, the Rus'. So at least there's not much question of how it would get there.
In short though, the only known lamellar armour found in Viking Age Scandinavia is foreign. (IIRC some have also been found in the Rus' areas, but that's even less surprising, and does nothing to make the point it'd be a native Scandinavian type of armour).
Some have gone looking in the literary sources for the Viking Age (which, are several centuries later, as a rule) There is a term _spangabrynja_ (meaning something like 'shingle-mail') that can easily be interpreted as lamellar or plate armour. It's only used in a handful of sources though. Without going to deep into literary analysis, these are:
_Þiðriks saga af Bern_ , Which isn't really about Scandinavians and it's a person in Rome wearing it.
Gregorius Dagsson in _Heimskringla_, and the term is also in _Grønlendinga þattr_ and _Sverris Saga_ - these all take place in the 12th century, post-Viking Age.
_Laxdæla saga_ - Helgi here is an actual Viking Age character and is wearing a "spangabrynja". With it, he also wore a "steel cap on his head with a brim a hand's breadth wide. He also carried a shining axe on his shoulder, which had a blade that must've been an ell from Wilnsdorf and the Scandinavian ; both are contemporary with _Laxdæla saga_ and are a good fit for a brimmed 'steel cap').
So it' a bit like the helmet situation: Claims in favor of lamellar armour are based interpreting texts written much later, and assuming they correctly represent fairly minute details. Or they're based on other peoples having such armor at that time, or that it was found from the Battle of Visby (1361), longer after the Viking Age than the duration of the Viking Age. Or that they had lamellar armour but made out of leather, so it has not left any traces. (although one might expect at least _some_ metal fittings).
At least with helmets there are _some_ finds, a history of helmets in the area, and some artistic depictions; fellows on runestones tend to be pointy-headed. Helmets are plausible or even probable. But when it comes to lamellar armour, there's really just nothing.
One thing I will say is that, between Sveriss saga, Gerald of Wales, the altar from Broddetorp Parish Church, and the Visby finds, we can say that for certain that lamellar armour was in using in the period 1170-1200 and again in 1361. While not entirely certain, it is highly probable that there was some continuity of use of lamellar during the 13th century and, considering the archaeological use of lamellar armour in Western Europe in the 6th and 7th centuries and the visual evidence of it in the 9th, it is entirely possible that there was also some Scandinavian use of lamellar armour between the 9th and late 12th century that simply hasn't been recorded.
Hardened leather was definitely developed before the Middle Ages, as two hardened leather chamfrons have been found at Vindolanda, Tacitus refers to the Sarmations as using "very hard leather" and hardened leather horse armour has been found at Dura-Europos. Unfortunately, there's no archaeological evidence or literary reference to it in the West until the early 12th century. It was in use in Byzantium by the late 9th century, and probably had for some time before. It was also used very widely in the Islamic, Central Asian and Asian worlds during this period.
Anyway, the main point is that even if you can correctly interpret what these texts are describing, you can't blindly trust them to be period-accurate.
Wow Thank you for your incredibly detailed answer I did not expect such a comprehensive reply. You mentioned they may have made lamellae out of leather but I thought such leather hardening technology wasn’t around until late medieval? (Cuir bouilli is the only European leather protection I know of. ).
Glad to be of help. I'm afraid I can't say much on this leather business though; I've only seen a passing reference to that, which I didn't follow up on. So I have no idea what those people had in mind, much less whether it's a defensible hypothesis or not.
I don't agree that amounts to certainty. We don't know that 'spangbrynja' in Sverris Saga or elsewhere really means lamellar armour, nor is the account necessarily accurate. The Broddetorp altarpiece is image of lamellar armour, if that's what it is meant to depict, and the image is one of Herod's soldiers, a 'bad guy' in a faraway eastern land long ago. IMO, Gerald of Wales' account is the only one that's reasonably good evidence here.
But you're still stuck with the issue that the 1170s is not the Viking Age. Just because it existed in other parts of Europe in the 7th century and Scandinavia in the 12th doesn't mean we can infer it was there in the Viking Age. There's a lot of stuff Europe had in the 7th century that wasn't introduced to Scandinavia until the 12th century. Off the top of my head; writing on parchment, stonemasonry with mortar and brickmaking among other things.
There are thousands of coins and other stuff from the Abbasid Caliphate in Birka too, doesn't mean they were brought by resident Arabs.
Earl Erling's spangabrynja was "not closed in front", which strongly suggests that it was lamellar armour. It's possible that he was actually wearing the earliest known coat-of-plates or some variant of mail otherwise unknown, but it's much more likely that he was wearing lamellar armour. Gerald of Wales' account adds weight to the interpretation of "spangabrynja" as "lamellar armour" as it demonstrates that Scandinavians were wearing what is best described as lamellar armour. The Broddetorp is the icing on the cake, not the defining piece of evidence. While it may be the weakest, Herod's soldiers were often portrayed in "Western" military garb and nothing apart from the crude depiction of lamellar stands out as being "Eastern" - and even the crude depiction is as likely to be artistic difficulty as the artist's unfamiliarity with the armour.
I absolutely agree that it pays to be cautious and that there's a high probability the Altaic lamellar at Birka belonged to Khazar or perhaps Magyar members of the site, but it is worth pointing out that Altai is itself a long way from where the Khazars and Magyars normally roamed and that they had their own distinct styles of lamellar armour. Thus, coupled with other circumstantial evidence, there exists the possibility that lamellar armour was an uncommon - perhaps a prestigious - form of armour among some Vikings.
Regarding whiich, I don't see any reason to believe it belonged to a Khazar or Magyar or necessarily any foreign inhabitant, but rather an _objet d'art_ perhaps purchased in Atil; a trading post roughly equidistant between Altai and Europe which we know Swedes visited. Or gotten there by the Rus' who had even closer contacts, and then traded in Kiev. Distance is less an issue than proximity to . I think someone bought an exotic bit of armour to show off for bragging rights rather than practical use.