The police are not going to get involved. Can you clarify the overall situation, you are renting a room, or renting out a room, and you say it's in your apartment but you live in another apartment, so you have two?
Unfortunately there’s no written agreement only verbal, the only things she has signed is a receipt every month saying that she payed the rent that month for a room. She has verbally agreed not to bring him over and written (only in text though) Yes I have two apartments. As for the involvement of the police, it’s not to remove her, it’s to remove him that I was wondering, and does RPP § 235-f apply to renting a room oppose to renting a whole apartment.
As for removing him with the police, the first thing to do is to talk to her, if that doesn't work, talk to him and ask him to leave. And if that doesn't work... well calling the police is a nuclear option, and they may not want to get involved, seeing as how he's not breaking any laws and the police are generally interested in crimes.
Moving forward there should always be signed rental agreement, and while they cannot say "no overnight guests" they can say "no one else can move in.".
What did she sign when she moved in? She should have signed a rental agreement whereby she agrees to not have someone move in, but "no overnight guests" is not enforceable in a NY court. No guests staying there unaccompanied might be. But it's unlawful for you to restrict her guests under RPP § 235-f:
Whatever you want to have happen, it needs to be in writing. Even if it is, there's nothing you can do now but wait for her to move out and then take her to court if she refuses. Again, the police won't get involved, only a sheriff with a court order can remove her.
Right, and your recourse for that is to (a) terminate her tenancy, and then (b) if she refuses to accept the termination, take her to court.
Notarizing just means a witness can attest that you signed it. You'll already stipulate to that. Under NY law you give her written notice (that you can prove was delivered) that stipulates the time/date of the termination and that ends after the next cycle starts. So, if you give notice tomorrow, it would say November 30th at midnight, etc. is one template but find one you prefer. Enter that you are the landlord.
You will want it to be in writing from now on. But you cannot legally make a "no guest" rule in New York. Even if she (or another tenant) agrees to it, they can change their mind and you would not be able to evict for that, or do anything else for that.
What about him staying there for 3-4 nights, he even brought a luggage one day with his stuff. He comes and goes. I rented to her, not him. She basically brought another person to stay there and she leaves him unaccompanied as if he lives there. He leaves on whatever days he wants. Nothing I can do about that? So she can bring another person there to stay for how ever many nights she wants?
It’s my apartment and she rents a room where he stays there overnight 3-4 nights. It’s like he’s living there rent free. The roommates are not the ones banning him, they feel uncomfortable with a guy who basically lives there half the week rent free.
It doesn't really matter unfortunately, and here's why. From a practical perspective, your only option is to give her notice to vacate. So here are your two options:
1. Give her 30-day written notice to vacate, no reason required, and if she's not gone in 30 days take her to court to evict her.