What is with this obsession over balance or "global equilibrium"? What good is that balance if achieving it means accepting deep immorality? Doesn't the world need justice instead of this bullshit?
> Once you’ve been to Cambodia, you’ll never stop wanting to beat Henry Kissinger to death with your bare hands. You will never again be able to open a newspaper and read about that treacherous, prevaricating, murderous scumbag sitting down for a nice chat with Charlie Rose or attending some black-tie affair for a new glossy magazine without choking. Witness what Henry did in Cambodia – the fruits of his genius for statesmanship – and you will never understand why he’s not sitting in the dock at The Hague next to Milošević.
I dont understand why the fuck he's trying to get back in the public eye at 99. Like he's definitely dead in less than 10 years and he's spending his time trying to write articles for the WSJ and get on Fox News after a long absence?
Because he's an attention starved narcissist, and the war in Ukraine reminds him of the good old days when he was able to do just all the war crimes and then convince the public that he's a good diplomat that just loves to make peace (he doesn't, he loves blowing up babies.).
Then there has been no global equilibrium in recorded history. Russia has been attacking its neighbors since the late 90s.
Given the insane levels of corruption that have left its army unable to fight against an alleged Russian territory, this is objectively false.
Its immoral to invade others nations without a reasonable reason. ITs immoral to bomb innocent civilians. Its immoral to lie about the reasons for war. Fortunately, its not immoral to fight back against such immorality.
This is true, but I also feel like at least here in America they can whip up a new moral panic whenever needed like Qanon or the preschool Satan cult moral panic of the 80s and 90s. I guess that requires too much effort.
That's adorable. Its completely false, but adorable nonetheless. The Russian army has been pushed out of almost every single territory it took in the start of the war.
There are few things in life as reliable as Russian shills claiming Ukraine has been murdering innocents in Donbas. But, lets suppose for a second that was true, which it is not. Russia could have appealed to the UN and requested a security force to protect the region, or it could have used its allegedly superior air defense (lol) to shoot down the alleged bombings from Ukraine. It did neither. Instead, it gave weapons to Igor Girkin and others who promptly used them to blow up an airliner. Then Russia committed to an ill fated invasion of all of Ukraine, not just the Donbas, which is currently not going so well.
Furthermore, Donbas is in Ukraine. Why does Russia have a right to police what happens in Ukraine? According to you there is no international law, therefore Russia has no concerns in Ukraine.
But I thought the moral justification for the war was to save the Donbas? Can you not keep you propaganda straight? This makes as much since as the US invading Iraq to preserve homeland security. Its a lie, in this case perpetuated by a weak, wannabe empire that's struggling to deal with a smaller, much less capable military. But by all means, keep shilling for them. I'm sure if you post enough lies, it will win the war. Happy shilling.