Our knowledge of ancient ideals of beauty comes largely from visual sources. So if we are to gauge just how much derriere was deemed desirable, we have to rely on sculptures, mosaics, and (where they survive) paintings. Artistic convention, as we'll see, was at least as important as representing reality; but such representations do at least suggest how the Romans liked to fantasize about themselves.
When Roman men began to commission nude statues of themselves, they inherited and imitated the Greek conventions for musculature, bulging rump and all. Most nude statues of Roman men belong to (nudity was a mark of divinity, among other things); and to judge from that admittedly limited data set, we might infer that Roman men wanted to be seen as perfectly-muscled demigods. This, however, would be misleading. Most Roman men probably wouldn't have objected to being perfectly-muscled demigods. In reality, however, few were so committed to the gymnasium. Bulging muscles were for gladiators and laborers; the gentleman should be fit, not jacked to the gills. Artistic conventions, in short, were not necessarily standards of beauty.
I would guess that you're asking about women. But let's start with men (as the Romans surely would have), since this will allow us to comment a bit on method. As you mention in your question, statues of Greek men in the Classical period tend to be show every subject as a lithe, toned, and youthful athlete. The bodies of these sculptures may have genuinely corresponded to the gym-sculpted flesh of some Olympic champions. In most cases, however, we should see their nudity as a sort of costume, a way of communicating something about the man. The invariably undersized genitals proclaim the subject self-mastery. The smooth muscles of the upper body suggest dedication to a training regimen (and, more generally, to the citizen ideals of the gymnasium). And the bulging buttocks (visible in, for example, the famous ) bespeak the surging strenh of a sprinter and warrior. (Such buttocks were also deemed desirable in boys, as Mr. Good Argument in Aristophanes' Clouds uncomfortably reminds us).
We need to keep this caveat in mind while assessing, at last, how Romans idealized the female body. To judge from artistic representations, the answer is straightforward: the Romans preferred broad hips and small, firm breasts. The Roman interest in peachy bottoms is on abundant display in the famous from Piazza Armerina, or in the even more famous ("fair-bottomed Venus") in the Naples Archaeological Museum. So should we assume that these represent the Roman ideal of beauty? Only with caution. Like their male counterparts, female nudes in classical art are both stereotyped and freighted with meaning. The famous , the first and most famous female nude in Greek sculpture, played an important role in establishing the body standard of all subsequent female nudes. And just as the male nude was intended to advertise potency, so was the female nude (with its conventionally broad hips) designed to showcase fertility.
We should not be excessively cautious here: the Roman ideal of female beauty probably corresponded fairly closely to artistic representations. To a certain point, of course, such representations actually created that ideal, life imitating art. It also helps that we have various and variously lurid literary descriptions of narrators lusting after broad-hipped women, including a very appreciative description of the Aphrodite of Cnidus.
Hopefully, this answers your question...if you would like to know more about nudity in ancient art, feel free to check out , filmed partly in the Art Institute of Chicago.
This was a wonderfully fleshed out (no pun intended) answer and I appreciate that you took the time to share this I am not OP but I feel like I learned quite a lot from this Thank you!
Ah, finally a serious answer. Thank you for the detailed response on the topic and the time you took to write this. I learned quiet a lot from this, butt but would you say that those artistic representations actually portray an average Roman person? I read somewhere that ancient Greek men were quiet muscular (especially the warriors), although they were less defined and had more fat tissues than their statues made them to look. I'm not sure whether that was true, but it'd make sense since they probably did a lot of labor/physical activities and encouraged the people to do sports. I assume people like an Emperor would be fatter because they and had no labor to do and their access to more and better food. If I were to pick a random Roman person would he/she has more ass or less ass fatter or skinnier? Thanks!