How much do these exhibitions misrepresent the reality of torture in the Middle Ages and the Early Modern Period?
One has to bear in mind that the Inquistion was not allowed to draw blood or cause any permanent or lasting damage on any person, and doing so would result in the annulment of the cause. Furthermore, the Spanish Inquisition did not trust the efficacy of torture for extracting confessions, and I cannot explain it better than the Inquisition's own procedural rules, articles 49, 50, and 53:
I will answer this part, limiting myself to the Spanish territories, as they are the ones I know in reasonable depth.
\-The strapado, known in Spanish as "garrucha". It is a pulley, a rather simple one. The accused or the witness would tied with his hands behind the back, and raised with a pulley that would make the upwards traction from that knot behind the back. A weight was placed in the accused's ankles, to make the torture more effective.
\-The rack. This one is very famous, a peculiar contraption that would partially dislocate the joints of the shoulders and the ankles.
The civil justice had these same methods, and we have some strange literary evidence coming from Juan de Arce de Otálora, a judge from the mid 16th century, and a very illustrious one. He was president of the Hall of Criminal Matters of the Real Audiencia y Chancillería de Valladolid, the highest court north of the river Tajo. In his Coloquios de Palatino y Pinciano, we find this little gem:
49. \[...\] Experience teaches us that the accused, in that agony, would confess anything that is suggested to them, which causes damages to third parties, and occasion for their confessions to be revoked.
Ippolito Marsili, the Hyppolitus mentioned by Arce de Otálora does not mention using the toque, the strings, and the strappado, but the usage of all available methods. Otálora, being a Spanish judge, adapts what Marsili said to his own practices.
PINCIANO- The better I have dinner, the better I sleep, in accordance to the text that says "fill me up, lay me down, and if I don't sleep, kill me". And in the days of fasting, if I don't have a roman collation, I can't sleep. And some times after dinner fights me so hard, that were it disturbed, it would be so hard a torment upon me that would I confess any felony, same as the sorceress that Hyppolitus mentions, who after having been administered the toque, and the strings, and the strappado and having not confessed, had her fed for good and sat down on a bench between two persons that would not allow her to sleep, and who would wake her up when she tilted her head; and he says that after forty hours she confessed.
Different techniques were applied depending on different factors, such as age and physical state of the person to be subjected to torment.
Do we have any sense of which form of torture was considered most severe, and if they were employed in any given order? Was the rack worse than water boarding, for example?
Great answer, thank you. Surprised to hear that stipulation against drawing blood, although I have no doubt that the experience was brutal nonetheless.
This matters of health are very well explained by Crown Prosecutor Agustín del Hierro in his conclusions against the Duke of Híjar, points 72, 73, and 74. Bear in mind that the Duke of Híjar was old but not of frail health as he had tried to claim in order to avoid being subjected to torment.
Sorry if the question is a little marginal, but is there anything true about the story that when the Napoleonic troops entered the palace of the Inquisition in Madrid they were disgusted in seeing people tortured in a gruesome way with all sorts of machines? Seems a legend to me. If so, what is its source?
50. The Inquisitors shall carefully examine whether the sentence of torment is justified or not, and preceded by legitimate evidence. In case they have issues with this, or doubts, as the damage could be irreparable, for in cases of heresy interlocutory sentences can be appealed, shall then the appeal be granted. \[...\] When in doubt, appeal shall always be granted. Also, the sentence of torment shall not be executed until the cause is concluded, and having received the accused's defendants.