NAL - You might still want to try the state public utility commission, since they are billing as part of the utility bill. Also, the service company is probably owned by the utility company. You can also try the state attorney general's office - as I'm sure that you are not the first one to find yourself in this situation.
You might also try contacting the Escrow / Title company you used, in that they probably should have been aware. Also, check the seller's disclosure statement in terms of disclosing any service contracts on the property.
FWIW, it is not in the closing statement nor sellers disclosure-and in this particular case the seller was a POA for for her mentally incapacitated mother.
generally, no, a contract cannot be inherited from one homeowner to the next. Tell the HVAC that their contract is with the previous owner, and not with you. Tell the HVAC that if there are missing payments, they should sue the previous owner for breach.
The SAG’s office is a place I thought about calling and may still call. They have since called me and cancelled the contract and are refunding the small amount I unknowingly paid.
Yes, this has happened to others. I saw the yelp reviews and those it happened to all used the same term “inherited”. With this real estate bubble I truly believe there are a lot of people in this area who are, or are about to be, in the same situation as me. Worse yet, they may not know for a long time unless they look at their bill. I mean, I only came to realize it when my last bill which was for October was $350-having never turned the heat on that month.
Technically, yes, it is possible, but you would have to agree to assume the contract. When you purchased the home, it would be been part of the purchase agreement. The closing attorney should have notified you. If it's not in your purchase agreement but somehow the contract is valid (e.g. a mechanic's lien - which again the closing attorney should have caught), then your title insurance will cover it.
-When the previous owner closed her gas account she had to pay the balance of the contract for the year.
-I bought the house and “inherit” the contract, which has been paid for. I inherited it by not opting out-which I could not do because I was not made aware of it.
-Fast forward several months and they’ve auto renewed me because I never opted out to begin with. I actually paid a few months unaware it was in my bill.
-Now, I’ve sold the house and my final bill includes the balance due for the year (June 2022). Further, now the new owners have it because it goes by house not by owner.
Either way, tell them you won't pay the service contract, because you never signed it. Pay what you owe them for the utilities (less what you accidentally paid for the service contract), and after that tell them to go F themselves.
It’s a service contract for heater, a/c from a sister company of the gas company. So, billing for the contract appears on the gas bill. Funny, I just got off the phone with them again. This time they said a member from their contract team will call me back. This is crazy…..all the staff time they’re spending on this …. It would’ve been cheaper for them to just remove the charges. Only thing I can think of is that they want that contact paid for so it doesnt die - this way they can stick it to the new unsuspecting owners next year.
The only way this would be possible would be if there was a charge on your title, but I've never heard of such a thing before. You can double-check your land title to be sure tho.