No, you should not ask the court to involuntarily declare them bankrupt as you have nothing securing the debt.
You need to pursue a writ of garnishment using the Judgment you were awarded in 2018. You could also attempt to sell the debt to a debt collector for a fraction of the total value up front, possibly 40-60% but your mileage may vary.
But assuming it isn't, OP's lien would be second in line behind the bank who has first priority. If OP did this, then he could move to foreclose said lien. If the bank doesn't step in and make the Defendant fix this ASAP (usually a term of the mortgage), the house gets sold at foreclosure, and the bank gets paid its money. Then two scenarios are likely. (1) Remaining proceeds are used to pay OP up to his $20K. If there is anything left after OP is paid, it goes back to the defendant. (2) If there isn't enough proceeds left after the bank gets paid (i.e., only $10K left), then OP gets paid what ever is available, and retains a claim for the balance. In this example, he would receive $10K, and have a remaining judgment for $10K.
Maybe, but it is unlikely if it is the defendant's homestead. Usually there are greater protections for that.
It’s $605k now and it protects that much in equity. So unless they bought the house with cash they won’t have that much equity. If it was a typical 20% down payment and 80% mortgage then they only have about $300k in equity right now. One thing to note is you have to file something for homestead protection to apply and maybe they haven’t. I’ve been lazy and haven’t filed myself. No idea if protection still applies if they file after a lien has been placed.
This wouldn't help OP anyways. Bankruptcy usually involves removing the debt or changing the power of the creditor to collect or receive payment. OP doesn't want that, OP wants to get paid.
Because it's not up to you if someone else is bankrupt or not. Bankruptcy is a personal financial decision with serious consequences that you have to choose to enter.
And because you are not a creditor with collateral assets on the table here. There is no car for you to repossess because you didn't own their car in the first place. The debt is unsecured.