The claim is broadly true, but with one or two caveats. First, some context. It was actually very common for Mesoamerican lords to keep large gardens. The lords of the Triple Alliance (Mexica, Acolhua, and Tepeneca) all controlled multiple garden, zoos, and hunting reserves. Not all of these gardens would qualify as botanical though. Most had mixed functions, including pleasure, as well as serving as a site of worship and devotion. However, some were used for their botany. The most famous of these, and the one you are probably thinking about, would be Huaxtepec. Huaxtepec displays several characteristics that mark it as a botanical garden: use in research (medical and botanical), as well as an imperial prestige project.
For the medical function of the gardens we must turn to Francisco Hernández. Hernández was a royal physician in the Castilian court who was sent by the king of Spain to Huaxtepec to study Aztec medicine and plant knowledge. His texts contain over five hundred different entries for herb-based treatments, and just as many, if not more, individual plants. This established that these gardens were indeed used to grow medical herbs. Furthermore, Bernard R. Ortiz de Montellano has argued that, in most cases, the Aztecs were absolutely right about the effects of these plants on the human body. This does not mean that Aztec cures were necessarily effective (although many were), just that they knew how taking certain medicines would affect a person’s body. We have several other texts that reveal Aztec botanical and medical knowledge, including Book 7 of the Florentine Codex, and the Codex Barberini. In particular, the Codex Barberini seems to indicate that the Aztecs had a well-developed classification system for medical plants. Lastly, Aztec doctors were considered to be better than their Spanish equivalents, which would be proof of the efficacy of Indigenous medicine.
From this we can conclude that the Triple Alliance had botanical gardens which were used to grow and study plants for their medical uses, as well as to buttress the perceived prowess of the Empire. In addition, the Aztecs had a huge body of botanical, agricultural, environmental, and zoological knowledge that they deployed in the creation of gardens and zoos. However, there is one big caveat. Although the Aztecs may have been able to the scientific method to experiment with plants, their world view was ultimately religious, and their understanding of their results was filtered through their spiritual beliefs. Consequently, their conclusions would, even is practically effective, would lack scientific accuracy. This may not have been a bad thing, however. Instruments did not really exist for their investigations to be carried further, and their spiritual interpretation may have allowed Aztec doctors to develop more holistic treatments to compensate.
The idea of there being a scientific method is largely considered a myth by historians of science, for whatever that is worth (to summarize the argument: there is no single scientific method, it did not arise with the so-called Scientific Revolution, and science is less about its methods than its communities and networks). Trial and error is in evidence across nearly all cultures, for centuries — it is not the scientific method, even if such a thing existed. Medicine and medicinal use of herbs is ancient. I'm not belittling the Aztecs — they had a pretty complex and sophisticated society — but from what I've seen here it doesn't sound fundamentally different from the sorts of things going on in pre-Renaissance Europe, or in China, or in India, for example. The Aztecs did not practice science in the way that Western Europeans later did; they practiced it, so far as I have read, similar to the way that the Babylonians and Egyptians did (anonymous work in the service of a bureaucratic state).
If you one wants to point to innovations in the 16th-17th century Western Europe that ultimately move it into a different mode of knowledge production, they are an increased interest in quantification, a push for the discovery of "natural laws," and the emergence of networks of correspondence and publication. Not method (except perhaps for the emphasis on quantification).
The most accessible source on this would be Durán. According to his historia, the creation of Huaxtepec was the brainchild of the Mexica official Tlacaelel. To quote: ‘Let us send to Cuetlaxtla, where Pinotl governs in your name, and order him to send the following plants to us: cacao trees, xochinacaztli, volloxchitl, cacaoxochitl, izquixochitl, huacalxochitl, cacalxochitl, and other flowers that grow in the Hot Country nears the coast, and see if they will thrive here in Huaxtepec.’ The following passages describe the creation of the garden. Tezozomoc, a Nahua writer, provides a very similar description, but includes even more plant varieties in his account. Keep in mind that this occurred in several other places as well, Huaxtepec was just the most prominent. Together these accounts establish that the Aztecs were indeed interested in testing plants to see the different kinds of environments the trees would grow in. Additionally, the creation of these gardens was connected to the growth of the empire. According to Matthew Restall, this collection practice was not incidental, but a fundamental aspect of elite strategy which extended beyond plants and into animals. Triple Alliance lords would grow plants and keep animals to show their ability to manage, connect with, and rule, the natural forces of the world. What they couldn’t physically keep in gardens, they had replicated in precious metals. The idea was to try and show that the natural forces were being unified under Mexica command, and therefore that the Mexica could intercede using these forces to ensure stability and prosperity on earth.
But you are correct the religious intent is not a disqualification; all of these civilizations intertwined what we would today label science and religion in a very fluid way, because they did not largely draw a boundary between the two. This continued even in Europe until basically the 18th century, well after the "Scientific Revolution," and still persisted well into the 19th century in some circles, and arguably still persists today in some.