You're not being scammed. You signed up for something you didn't understand and are being charged a ridiculous but legal interest rate for. You can pay it or not, but they're free to report the debt to credit bureaus hurting your credit for the next 7 years. They're also allowed to sue you for the unpaid debt, or sell it to a debt collector who will hound you for payment and maybe sue you as well.
NAL but it sounds like you have a balance to pay or let them report to the credit bureaus. This doesn’t really look like a legal issue. You might have closed the account but that doesn’t mean you don’t owe them the remaining balance.
Unfortunately, this is stated in the fine print of these kinds of contracts and as such, you owe the amount or else may be sent to collections etc. My guess is the account was closed for non-payment or whatever other reason, but that doesn't mean you don't still owe the amount. Currently sounds like you're in the collections department of that creditor, but they can and will likely send it to a third party debt collector if you refuse to pay. Those people can truly hound you, and interest can accrue from there as well. You can ask if they have a settlement offer for you, sometimes they will let you pay a lesser amount if paid in one lump sum just to be done with it.
I will also say that the CARD Act requires that statements clearly show that if you pay only the minimum, when the debt will be paid off... So if your statements didn't show you clearly that your debt would not be paid in full by the time the promotional period ran out, you may then have a legal case. This came into effect in 2009 because this is such a common issue for consumers.
It's a common trap people fall into. No interest if paid within xxx months. But then they pay the "minimum payment", not realizing that by doing so, they will never have it paid in full before the interest period kicks in. Once this happens, you not only pay interest on the amount still outstanding, but the full amount loaned to you.