It's a federal crime, and the following link has all the information you need to know. Ignore those who say this isn't a crime and isn't hurting anyone.
Okay, let me rephrase what I said earlier. This is no law specifically on point for this particular action. I'm unware of anyone being prosecuted under the law they're basing this under.
>the unauthorized use of an official government agency's seal (such as HHS or the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)) is a crime, and may be punishable under Title 18 United States Code, Section 1017, and other applicable laws.
True but given that vax cards are only a couple of months old and our gub’ment is still rather busy on other pressing matters, it’s not surprising that there hasn’t been a spate of fraudulent vaccine card prosecutions.
While we can debate the odds of it ever actually happening until the demysts come home, given the pretty clear language of , people forging the cards absolutely face the risk of charges. (Would you advise a client, in writing, that it was legally “safe” for them to forge a CDC vaccine card? I sure as hell wouldn’t).
There's no laws that make this illegal. You can inform the mets stadium to tell them to not admit him, but I doubt they're going to go through all that trouble.
More likely, those who forge the cards will find out that they just played themselves. It's suspected that folks vaccinated against COVID-19 are just protected from suffering the ill effects of being infected by the disease, but may still become infected, carry, and transmit it. Vaccinated individuals can gather in numbers and relax the precautions without much fear of getting sick, but there's a chance an imposter might get unlucky if trying to mingle with them. Then again, maybe that's a self-remedying problem.
That's just the federal part of the law. It's entirely likely that states or municipalities may decide it's a problem and start prosecuting under other forgery, fraud, or impersonation laws.
The best way to think of this is, if creating a forged instrument and presenting it grants you something, whether it's money, authority, access, or other privilege, you can be prosecuted for the crime depending on the damages the fraud causes.