You can’t just point to a roach and say I’m out. (This situation would be a nightmare for landlords in a place like NYC or FL).
It sounds like your landlord has responded when you complain, so it will be much harder to break your lease. He is doing his due diligence. Because the landlord is responding, you may have to prove the apartment is uninhabitable to break the lease.
Unfortunately these things are a fact of life and as long as the landlord is addressing the situation, you may be SOL on the lease depending on location.
Ok. That’s a way bigger problem than just one type or a few sporadically. My only suggestion is to review your lease agreement, and the laws on landlords in your area to see if there’s any inconsistencies between the lease you signed and what is consistent in the area, and also if this can qualify as a failure of the landlord to provide adequate housing. Maybe try reaching out to local housing advocates, as they might know the area and options more. Roaches can also provide public health issues, so maybe research what your city’s resources have in terms of health clauses that can get you out of your lease, since the landlord is obviously not providing a habitable space.
Do you know what type of roaches they are? Some are particularly hard to get rid of, and can come with your stuff if you end up moving. I’m NAL so idk what legal leg you have to stand on, but if others in the building have this problem, it likely won’t go away if you spray with a private company.
You say you signed a lease but you also say it's month to month. These are generally two different things - That's where it is confusing. Do you mean that you signed a long lease, and that you pay monthly? That's not a month to month tenancy. Witth a month to month tenancy, you and the landlord typically have to give 30 days notice to end the tenancy, whoever decides. What does your lease say about ending your tenancy ? If it's truly a month to month arrangement, go can leave fairly easily. If you signed a 6 month or year lease, you are not a month to month tenant, And it's more difficult to leave, as it involves breaking a lease.
It’s month to month his lease just states that I give him 30 days notice before I leave, and that I will adhere to his rules regarding quiet times, cleanliness, and pay on time.
but regardless, i am asking about getting my money back not about breaking a lease unless they’re related?