Except, of course, for the tens of thousands of people that received it during the initial clinical trials, and the continued surveillance and reporting on the millions of people that have received it after the issuance of the EUA.
You can certainly try to get a medical exemption, and explain to your employer that your neurologist is all booked up; but attempting to buttress your exemption request with misinformation from anti-vaxxers is not going to be helpful.
Like has been pointed out, your options are to see if you can get a legitimate medical exemption before October.
Yes, I know lots of people have gotten it...as I said, you can't rush a longitudinal test. I don't care if 100% of people on earth get vaccinated, we won't know the side effects for at least another year.
By the way, you weren't "forced" to get the vaccine. "Forced" is when someone holds you down and sticks a needle in your arm. You chose to get the vaccine because of the impact not getting it would have on your life. But you were not forced.
The rest are valid. I don't care that it was approved via EUA, that means very little when it comes to the vaccine's safety.
They essentially require less testing and analysis in order for it to be released, and the measures passed via EUA have been retracted in the past. That is my point.
It means a lot that an EUA was issued. The FDA does not casually hand them out; and certainly safety is a major consideration. There is not currently any reason to think that full licensure will not be issued shortly; the FDA has publicly stated that the expect the Pfizer vaccine to be fully-licensed in late-September/early-October.
Fully approved drugs have also been removed from the market. Science is not infallible. But when it comes to a vaccine, there's no scientific support for the assertion that "side effects" are just going to show up in two years.
In any event, you are associating correlation with causation here. If you don't get a medical exemption and refuse the second shot, your employer can terminate you.