Yes to both. It is a new development. I asked them what they could do about this, and so far all they’ve told me is “I’m sorry”, that they are going to talk to their maintenance person, and that because the hold up is on the cable company’s end, they say they can’t do anything about it right now.
Not sure what you expect maintenance to do... provisioning service to a new address with a third party ISP is not exactly in the realm of a handyman.
The terms of the lease imply that you are allowed to have those services installed and the building is in the service area, but the landlord doesn't provide them. That is normal - if you request service on an address that's never had it, yeah, it will take anywhere from a few days to a few weeks depending on the ability of the ISP to provision service.
This is a common occurrence; it's not usually wise to move somewhere and expect third-party internet service immediately. Internet is not the same as electric, gas, water, etc. - if your ISP of "choice" is not pre-wired, you are SOL until they show up. And there is nothing the landlord can do about it.
If you are lucky you can squeeze a rent concession out of your landlord as a courtesy; if I were them, I wouldn't grant it, but you can ask. No, this would not be grounds to break the lease.
How do you know what the terms of the lease imply without seeing the lease itself? Is that implication something general in landlord/tenant law that applies to all leases across the board when it comes to utilities? Why is the onus on me to have to double-check that a service, described in the lease as a “service provided for the property”, will actually be provided for the property? Isn’t that what the lease is for?
Also I am not expecting light-speed internet on day one of move in. What I am angry about is that the landlord misrepresented availability of these services and implied that they would be available on move-in. They did not let me know that it would be 2 months (out of a 12 month lease) before cable/internet would be available. Wouldn’t a reasonable landlord let a tenant know about something like this before move-in?
The phrase "service provided for the property" means the internet service provider provides internet service to the property. It does not necessarily mean the internet service provider can immediately provide service.
Yes, it is your responsibility to check with the ISP to schedule provision of service when you need it. Lack of internet is not yet a habitability issue.
The lease controls. The landlord talking the place up is not enforceable when you have a written lease.