Imagine finding out now that most countries have been living normally for 6 months to a year and that you’re the exception. It must be a really weird realization.
I’ve seen images of Chinese diplomats (I think) going through a Canadian airport wearing their crazy hazmat suits surrounded by a mostly mask less crowd and they looked so confused.
The guys wearing hazmat suits at the airport are airline staff for flights to and from mainland China (Ie. Xiamen, Hainan, Sichuan), there are strict requirements to work on their flights.
I have seen Chinese people flying with Hazmat suits between Papua New Guinea and Australia. So even on flights where it’s not strictly required, they are doing it.
Airlines should not allow it as it induces panic. I work in a hospital and we had a doc do this and made him take it off. Just freaks out everyone else who doesn’t have (or need) a hazmat suit.
Not remotely the same. This would be kind of like showing up to the World Cup with a Swat team shield. Not necessary and induces panic. Has nothing to do with race or religion.
That’s the point. They are not sacrificing their personal safety. COVID is not spread through skin contact. A body suit does nothing to protect you from COVID.
If you really don't want to catch it, a simple N95 mask will prevent ≈100% of infections. Their hazmat suits are probably more for symbolism than actual protection.
It's also not particularly useful. Covid is an airborne respiratory virus. Like, you won't magically catch it because it lands on your clothes. Not only that, but unless you are in a very poorly ventilated room, you need to have prolonged contact with someone who is infected for at least 15 minutes. This has been know by virologists since late 2020 at least.
I don’t disagree at all. I wasn’t really crediting anybody, just the CCP in general - of which Deng was indeed the most significant reformer of. It’s why Dengism is in the party’s constitution.
Most foreign students from China probably have pretty good lives and freedoms inside of China, with some level of connection to the CCP. For a lot of the Chinese middle class, the CCP is why they have such a degree of freedom compared to what they had even 10 or 15 years ago.
When I first visited China in 2005, average people couldn’t leave their cities without permission, now the amount of freedom they’re allowed is huge, as are the economic opportunities and prosperity. You never used to be able to make fun of Mao for instance, but now as Xi cements his power, once taboo subjects are now somewhat free to be joked about. If they’re connected to government, even at a local level, then the EU is probably not a massive jump in freedom for them.
>Most NIOSH-certified N95 FFRs offer more than 95% filtration efficiency for a wide range of particle sizes (4–100 000 nm). They deliver almost 100% protection from particles ranging from large droplets (>100 000 nm) to inhalable droplets (10–100 000 nm) and to nuclear aerosols (<10 000 nm).
I’m not exactly sure what the system was, it might have been Hukou but the restrictions were definitely just on movement. We lived just outside of Dongguan and several people we were friends with were unable to travel to Shenzhen or Guangzhou, let alone out of province. And we were pulled over and our driver Id checked basically nearly every time we left the city limits.
I mean, if by not normal you mean that people are still being more cautious and Covid is still around, then that's never going away so I wouldn't call it "not normal". That's just how life is going to be from now on.
Ok but what poing are you trying to make here? Even if it turned out that N95 weren't that effective (which isn't the case), the hazmat suits that the Chinese are wearing are totally overkill. It's Covid. Not a mutated Ebola.