Exploratory Surgery is the name of the procedure and is a recognized type of surgery. (Like saying spay or mass removal) An exploratory surgery by name is a hunt to find a problem. In DFW (I work in the metroplex) a weekend exploratory at a 24 hour or er clinic is usually $2000-3000. Add on radiographs and other diagnostic and you can reach 4k fast. It would be cheaper on a Monday but your friend got weekend ER rates.
Legally they have to give her a copy of her records in a reasonable amount of time and they can charger her something reasonable for it. Most clinics do not charge but I have some patients records that are larger than a text book so it may take more time for your friend to get all her records if her chart is large.
Nothing in your story reads like a winnable malpractice veterinary claim from what I have learned in the seminars on protecting my clinic from lawsuits but I will leave that to the lawyers. She needs to file on her insurance for a reimbursement and find a different veterinarian who gives pre surgical estimates.
Sending out radiographs always means consulting a board certified radiologist. Your friend paid extra for that consult. If a radiologist is worried about something it raises the urgency the general veterinarian feels. If a radiologist tells me to go to surgery I will strongly recommend it. That is standard care.
My/our main concern is that they gave her NO language stating it was exploratory BEFORE the surgery. There was a misdiagnosis combined with a massive lack of proper communication. She wasn’t told that the X-rays were done by a third party radiologist until after the surgery was done. When they called her, it was not at all stated that they weren’t sure that this would result in finding nothing. In fact, they told her it was THE ONLY SOLUTION. It’s not that I don’t understand why they would do such surgeries but if they do them under false pretenses, THAT is illegal. Robyn was not given another option; for all she knew, the dog would die if she didn’t have the surgery done, but that wasn’t the truth in reality. This seems to imply that veterinarians expect that dog owners have in-depth knowledge of animal medicine, enough to be able to tell, themselves, when a surgery isn’t an absolute requirement? Are they also expected to know that enteritis can appear as objects in an X-ray? Is the implication here that she should’ve known it wasn’t fatal, so she could’ve asked them not to do the surgery?
In surgery, we were taught that if we aren’t doing at least one negative explore for every 10 foreign body surgeries, then we are doing something wrong by not sending patients to surgery and will miss foreign bodies. A dead patient because you “just aren’t sure” is worse than sending a patient to surgery.
The surgery was completed, the owner consented, and her dog didn’t die. Her dog also did not have a foreign body, but again, this is a medically acceptable outcome in an abdominal explore. She owes the vet, and the vet can sue if she decides to stop payment.
If your friend is still convinced a medical error occurred, their only recourse is to report the vet(s) to their state licensing board. But again, since a negative explore is a medically acceptable outcome, she will probably have a difficult time proving a medical error occurred.
A negative gastrointestinal exploratory surgery is a possible and medically acceptable outcome in potential foreign body obstruction surgeries. If there was an obstruction, the dog most certainly would have gotten a septic abdomen and eventually died. Absence of a foreign body does not at all indicate a medical error occurred, and this is why we call it “practicing” medicine. Even the most perfect x-rays with the most talented radiologist reading them can still ultimately be wrong.
Edit: also, regarding the suggestion to do an ultrasound—they also aren’t precise. Just because you see nothing on an ultrasound does not mean there is nothing there. Also, an ultrasound is only as good as the person operating it—did they have a tech on hand that day? Did they have someone who could read the ultrasound? Did they even have an ultrasound??? If the outcome was going to be surgery regardless of what the ultrasound said (if I don’t find a foreign body on ultrasound and the x-ray still shows something—I’m going to surgery), then that was just ultimately driving up her bill.
If I do an ultrasound and see nothing, that dog is still going to go to surgery if the rads indicate a foreign body that lines up with opacity of a plastic object. A negative ultrasound means nothing and is not diagnostically relevant in cases of potential foreign body. An ultrasound is also not overtly diagnostic for acute gastroenteritis, so it’s not like some diagnostic test was missing here.
A million things can have the exact same clinical signs. Dogs vomit and have stomach pain for a multitude of reasons. Sometimes they eat things, other times they get an infection. You friend’s job isn’t to know that gastroenteritis and foreign body obstruction cause the exact same clinical signs.
She didn’t know it was exploratory, though. Had she known that gastroenteritis was commonly mistaken for a foreign object, she could’ve asked them to do an ultrasound AND could’ve repeated to them that the dog has had gastroenteritis before. (They claimed they looked at her records but didn’t catch that until after the surgery which is why they were able to ultimately determine that it was in fact gastroenteritis).
We can’t ask fluffy “did you swallow the plastic toy soldier?” The vet did their job, and your friend still has a dog that is alive at the end of the day.
A history of gastroenteritis does not rule out a potential foreign body, especially with radiographs indicating there was one, and any veterinarian must proceed with caution when making an assumption such as “well this is just normal for this dog”.
Well you make a point here that I think should be examined further: Why would a radiologist make a recommendation for an ultrasound, when the results of said ultrasound would be negated anyway? As a layman, it seems odd that you’d ignore a diagnostic tool. What’s the point of even having it to begin with? But more importantly, if the dog has had a history of gastroenteritis (she’s had it twice and my friend had the records) it’s very odd that wasn’t taken into consideration. My friend wasn’t given the entire story; we will never know if the ultrasound gave any other insight because it was never given as an option.
With regard to a radiologist saying “you could perform an ultrasound to confirm position of foreign body” again does not give any additional diagnostic utility in this case. They aren’t wrong in saying “you could do an ultrasound” because, well, you could! They could have also said “you could do an endoscopy or a CT scan”. Just because you CAN does not mean you should.
Diagnostic tools don’t exist to avoid surgery, they exist to aid in diagnosis. The diagnostics performed indicated a foreign body, of which an abdominal explore is the appropriate course of action.
Gastroenteritis is a non-specific diagnosis that simply means “inflammation of the stomach/intestines”, and it also has many causes—bacteria, viruses, parasites, and even ingestion of something. Simply having a history of gastroenteritis does not make this case special.
Again: if I see a foreign body on ultrasound, I am sending to surgery. If I don’t see a foreign body on ultrasound, I am sending to surgery. If my outcome is the same no matter what I see, then why would I charge a client for that test?
It is ultimately up to the vet who has performed the physical exam to determine if this additional diagnostic testing will provide any further direction or if it is just a waste of the client’s money.
Also, your friend didn’t pay for an ultrasound so why are you upset that this test that you, with absolutely zero knowledge of veterinary medicine, think would have avoided surgery wasn’t done in the first place? Your friend paid for an x-ray that indicated a foreign body. It really doesn’t matter what the radiologist said.
Owners don’t know that you’re going into surgery regardless of the tests though. We going in expecting that the reason the diagnostic tools exist is to AVOID surgery. How would an ordinary person know that veterinarians are instructed to perform surgery regardless of test results??
This is all completely fair. My point is that how in the hell are layman owners supposed to know that surgery is always the answer? If this expectation had been set from the beginning, we wouldn’t be having this conversation. In fact, I have read several dog-raising books before all three of my dogs, and none have mentioned this at all. I respect that Veterinarians have gone through lots of education, but owners haven’t—and that lack of knowledge transfer/communication could’ve made ALL the difference here. To expect that an owner wouldn’t be mortified to learn that their animal was cut open and it was all for naught (in their minds—based on the expectations set by the doctor or NOT set by the doctor), is very unempathetic. I am deeply concerned, now, that vets expect that we have a level of industry knowledge that we just don’t. And they make it seem like “well duh, we perform surgery regardless of what the tests show because we don’t want to be liable”—and they shouldn’t be held liable, but they should be accountable to transfer that insider knowledge to the pet owner. I’m glad you took the time to comment, and I appreciate it, because now I know to ask very specific questions if my animals ever experience something similar (and to skip paying for tests of any kind if surgery is going to be the answer every time).
She would be better served to call a few other vet practices in town and ask what a simple exploratory surgery would be usual and customary charges. With that, see if what her vet charged was out of line. If so, use it to negotiate down the bill.