It pleases us to herein correct, for the benefit of our most loyal subjects, the egregious misconceptions about warfare that the vile and perfidious "movie" The King has wrought.
When we intend to fight a battle, we do not recruit dimwitted fools who have no sense of self-preservation. All men who serve under us must be mentally competent and so they know fear, for fear of death is the natural state for man. Though he may face it courageously and die worthily, and though his soul goes to be with our Lord God, he does fear it. It is for this reason that the sane man does not blindly charge into the enemy and get among them, so that they strike their own men as well as he, for this is perilously close to suicide and a doom to his mortal soul. And, if not suicide, then it is an act of courage and bravery that not one man among a thousand has.
No, in our experience, we say that men do not rush and mingle on the battlefield, but do meet in steady lines, man beside man. They advance or retreat but a pace or two as they kill or are killed and they know who their enemy is for he is before them, may our gracious God have mercy on their souls. And, even should a man receive a blow to the head and become disoriented, who does not know the banner of their lord or the arms of their friends, embroidered on their cote-armour and worn over their armour? Would they not instead turn away from their dear and familiar friend and strike instead at the hateful blazons of their enemies? Truly I say that they would.
May Our Lord have you in His holy keeping. Given under our Signet, in our Kingdom of England, the 2nd day of the month of November.
We don't know. They played a role at Agincourt, tripping the French men-at-arms in the vanguard as they were forced forward by those behind, but this was a fair unique situation where the French were under attack from the sides and rear. Light infantry or servants might possibly have come out between the men during gaps in the fighting to drag the bodies away, but it's more likely they were left where they fell and the fighting either continued above them or, if one side managed to get the upper hand, they would step over the body and continue fighting. Most casualties weren't causing during this phase of the battle under normal circumstances, but during the rout afterwards, so the bodies weren't as big a hindrance as you might think.
And, when as at our victory by the grace of Almighty God over the French at Azincourt, the lines of an enemy are broken, even then they are easy to distinguish, for their are either fleeing in cowardice or manfully standing in place with their lords and brothers in arms in distinct groups. These you will reduce with your own men, surrounding them and striking inwards at their group. In this way many noble lords of France were piteously slain by even common archers, for they could not advance beyond their fellows in battle lest they be overwhelmed, yet as a group they could not gain enough space to fully fight.