The point of the UN is to represent every nation. Many of the questionable aspects of it are a response to the failure of the League of Nations which operated differently. Yes many terrible nations are present in the UN, this creates a form to diplomatically resolve things with those nations and hopefully apply pressure. If every dictatorship wasn’t allowed a UN seat the UN would just be another little summit of allied nations.
It's not that I think that they should be expelled, there are many awful dictatorships in the world right now and all of them have their representation and narratives, but in the case of them it's not only that but also the fact that they are very outlandish and isolated that I (yes, just the ignorant or naive me) thought they would just relinquish any seat/voice there and would have no will to participate with the rest of the world not even for propaganda reasons. But thanks a lot!
There are of course times when it’s gotten wrong. China and the US made sure Pol Pot kept his UN seat even after he was unseated from government in Cambodia for instance.
Funny enough it’s not like there haven’t been weirder, more regressive, or more isolated members of the UN. Cambodia under Pol Pot is the peak example. They would execute anyone with glasses because they were trying to reinstate a pre industrial agrarian society yet somehow they still had diplomats, even after they had been overthrown and were hiding in the jungle. Rhodesia is also up there as one of the weirdest and most isolated. Given what’s happened to Zimbabwe and the fact that racism is a thing they’re mostly only brought up by their defenders who are, racist, and idiots. But Rhodesia was a comically dysfunctional and isolated country. They were to racist for even the UK or the US to support at a time when South Africa was a darling, they put the queen on the currency but wouldn’t even be let in their common wealth. They tried to sell their outright race war as anti communism but even Cold War US didn’t buy it. Their currency and economy was an absolute joke, their military and government would make WW2 Italians look functional. They recruited and “paid” (in their funny money) foreign fighters but said foreign fighters would just straight up lie about their experience so they just got the worlds weirdos.
Yeah that’s a good point but interestingly NK wasn’t always as bad as it is now in terms of functionality. While the Soviet Union was around they had a safety net economically to depend on and a global partner/network to stay engaged with. Plus the south was a dictatorship for much of that time so while NK was always NK the distinction wasn’t always so clear. Now of course there is no grey area whatsoever and your right in your assessment in them.
I mean, BRICS is a thing. If you're in group with Russia and China that tries to replace the $ as the global Standard currency, I'd guess they have pretty much made their call?
Ramaphosa has even said russia has every right to fight against western aggression and allowed Russian sanctioned yachts and oligarchs in the country. Dude is playing a fine line but will likely side with China and Russia before the West.