It's not up to you. It's up to the grandparents and their will, and if they have no will, it will be dictated by state law. What state is this? But most states it would be a clean 1/3 split for all. Except, the grandparents won't die at the same time. How much professional estate planning have they had?
If they sell it and give the money to the children, the state may come after the grandchildren to get the money back. They need a professional.
You should tell your husband to have them talk to an estate planning attorney. The grandparents can't just put it in a trust (but that's probably what the attorney will recommend). They need to have legal help here to deal with all these things together at one time.
its split 3 ways. we are not talking about the great grandchildren [which are 7]. the grandparents will be living with one of my inlaws. they will be cleaning the house in the upcoming weeks and put it on market.
from my husbands point of view when they sell the house it will be in all of their names (3 of them.). I am still confused by this and do not think this will work. I will ask more tomorrow because they are looking a month out to sell it. moving everything out in the next few weeks.
okay. I will mention that to him. how long would this process take?I I am sure his siblings will not want to pay for this because that is the way they are.
They don't pay for it. The grandparents pay for it. It's their estate. They must do this themselves. If they do not, they're going to leave a really ugly mess for their children.
That could end up being a terrible idea. They need an estate planning attorney. Are they going to try to collect Medicaid? Sometimes the state will put a lien on the house while the resident is living and attempt to recover the property after the resident has passed away. Medicaid will not count a nursing home resident's home as an asset when determining eligibility for Medicaid as long as the resident intends to return home (in some states, the nursing home resident must prove a likelihood of returning home).