Countries get to decide for themselves what does and does not constitute an act of war. Fact is, you target/kill the US President, you can expect heavy retaliation. In this hypothetical scenario, the most likely consequence would be the same that the US has threatened Russia with if they would use a tactical nuke in Ukraine: total annihilation of their forces in Ukraine and surrounding area's through a sustained air campaign. The US would not set boots on the ground, nor strike deep into Russia, but it would effectively remove their ability to wage war or attack Ukraine.
Considering the Americans warned the Russians a few hours beforehand about Biden's visit, any attack on Kyiv while Biden is there would be seen as deliberately endangering his life. It wouldn't directly be a casus belli, but it would very probably warrant a response from the US.
Fact is, the POTUS visiting Kyiv is a signal of American strenh and dominance. Russia bombarding Kyiv while he is there, is a challenge to that dominance. Therefore, a response to cement that dominance would be required on the part of the US. What the response would be, is hard to say. I'm sure the Biden administration would have gamed out those scenario's beforehand, and may have even informed Russia on the type of consequences they could expect through the deconfliction hotline when they informed Russia of Biden's visit.
Most likely the US and Russia negotiated a window of time. Its not just the President's safety but also for the ukranian govt safety. Its no good if russia missile strikes Zelensky after Biden has left.
No - the US would have simply informed Russia, nothing more, nothing less. "The POTUS is going to be in Kyiv today. Any threats to his safety from you will evoke a powerful response".
No, if the US really wanted to do a show of power, he'd have come in on AF1 flanked by F-22 raptors. Redditors might get off on games of oneupmanship but US leadership aren't stupid to play games like that.
Biden rocking up to Kyiv is absolutely a show of power, more in the sense of "You can't do anything to stop me from being here and supporting Ukraine, and we both know it".
Mate, if the US wanted to do a show of power, Biden would have announced his arrival ahead of time and showed up on Air Force One escorted by fighter jets. THAT is a public show of power. Not sneaking in as a surprise visit in an train.
Very much doubt it. Firstly, agreeing to a time window would be agreeing to a time where it would be "fair game" to hit Kyiv, which the US would never do. Secondly, and more importantly, it would be a huge sign of weakness. The whole point of the POTUS visiting Kyiv is to show the world and Russia that they have NO POWER, and that the US is so sure of that, that they feel confident placing their most high profile asset in Kyiv. If you then simultaneously engage Russia about a time window, you are in fact signaling that they DO have power, and that you fear their potential response, and that you are not confident at all. It would undermine the whole point of the exercise.
I was talking about the security arrangements behind the trip. The US and Russia have lots of experience in syria making sure that they don't accidentally hit each other.
You realize that this has already happened by the US not stationing high value people in Kiev for long periods right? Why not have Biden stay there a week?