Yes, and in multiple places. More can be said if anyone would like to contribute on signal beacons, so if you want to indulge the intersection of your pyromania and historical interest, please feel free to write up a post! For the meantime, OP, has contributions from u/BRIStoneman on signal beacons in Anglo-Saxon England, while u/y_sengaku has a collection of more previous threads about beacons for you to chew on.
I can say the system was also well-developed and organized in Habsburg monarchy as a messaging system against Ottoman raids in late fifteenth and became fully functional in the first half of the sixteenth century, and one such system I am familiar with was in Carniola ( nowadays Slovenia ):
\- 2 cannon shots: gathering of Ottoman troops ( The message would have been relayed from lower parts of the monarchy, nowadays Croatia, and there was a network of spies and watchers ). This also signaled the mobilization of cavalry and meeting in the before-specified places.
\- 3 cannon shots: Ottoman troops already on the move, and regional mobilization under offne General, which also issued the extent of mobilization.
4 extra cannon shots ( without accompanying fire ) were issued if the mobilization was expected to last more than 8 days, and for Carniola, the place was Ljubljana. At this point, general populace would seek shelter, in most places that would be fortified churches or walled-cities.
Well, they were quite common here ( nowadays Slovenia, northern Croatia, southern Austria, and some of them are still standing today ) during the times of the Ottoman raids, as means to protect countryside population.
Each place has a history behind it, most of them were build by late fifteenth or early sixteenth century, unless one wants to be specific about a place precisely, I can show two more examples much better preserved, and .
And to show the seriousness of the situation and ferocity of these raids, in southern parts of todays Slovenia, in early sixteenth century, the ratio of abandoned farms was around 30-40%1, as the populace was either slaughtered or captured as a work/military force. Though natural places, like caves, which are very common topographical feature, were also frequently used.
Certainly, they had passive-defensive role, and were more of a deterrent. Though, they were armed and had provisions to last, although of course this depends, naturally, on the scale and numbers of the inhabitants. And mind, the picture is not so straightforward, the regional nobles certainly had motivations to let them stand as a popular mode of defense, but this was also time of peasant revolts, and cities were also vary of the idea, since it could be used as a place to hoard and trade food and resources outside of city-market places, and so forth.
Sadly, this is quite outside of my area of focus in Slovene history, and although I have some ideas about where to find the material that would answer such concerns for this geographical area specifically, it is all in Slovene language, and I am currently literally unable to do it for multiple reasons.
Luckily, I know this is not regionally specific, fortified Churches are found elsewhere ( France, for example ), and this is more of a guess of mine, these reservations of nobility and cities should be found elsewhere as well. Though I can imagine the circumstances where this might not be the case, it depends on multiple factors.
Were they effective? Comparing them to military fortifications, I assume they were more of a "bike lock" sort of deterrent---they look like they're just enough so that assaulting the population wasn't worth bothering with, and they don't look like a very serious strategic effort.
( This is way outside my area in Slovene history - legal tradition, so perhaps it would be worthwhile for a new post about cannon or mortar communication in early modern period. ) I would still wager that this two modes were not competing or isolated, but complementing, as circumstances can greatly hinder one, without necessarily hindering the other. Lower clouds and fog could make the beacons indiscernible past a kilometre, but mortar shots on windless days could still be heard, and so forth.
In the picture one will find one branch where beacons where used. But the communications where much more intricate and complex, accompanied by cannon shots that further specified the nature of the situation. Beacons were in proximity of either castles, fortified churches, or larger farms ( called kašče ), so the maintenance was not that of an issue ( it was under regional authority ), but also, there was an official regional watch.
It seems on open grounds, the maximal distance was up to 18 kilometre, in valleys that went up to 22 kilometres, but usually less. I should say that this regional communication was paralleled by local, in case of failure. On this note, regional watch was official, and liable to punitive damages by presiding regional authority.
As an example, the "vårdkase" on toop of Hoverberget in Jämtland 1710, being on alert since Denmark-Norway had declared war and an invasion of Jämtland fron Norwegian Tröndelag was possible was guarded by a total of 43 peasants for 267 days. This "vårdkase" was located far from the village, and the peasants were paid for their duty.
Last time the system was used was in 1854, when a large British fleet was sighted outside Vinga (on the western Swedish coast) on its way to attack the Russians in the Baltic Sea as a part of the Crimean War. The presence of such a large fleet that close to the coast was taken as a potential threat, and the fire was lighted. It took nearly 24 hours before the line of fires had been lighted from Vinga to Stockholm, alerting the government.
With the regular post service, which rode daytime and had a fresh horse and rider taking over at fixed places, a letter could be delivered between Göteborg (which is the city closest to Vinga) to Stockholm in about 7 days.
Perhaps a bit ironically, Swedish local defence built "vårdkasar" in 1914 in the aproaches to Stockholm since several of the lookoutlocation did not have access to a phone or telegraph line - in this case the "vårdkase" was only to alert the closest manned location with a telegraph or telephone line. In many cases the landstorm men building "vårdkasar" found the remains of "vårdkasar" from earlier centuries right where they were constructing theirs.