Elderly people often have thin and fragile skin, so follow up with GP may be necessary. And many elderly people stop driving because of vision etc.
Do not think that a taxi or uber driver wants a passenger bleeding in their car — bio hazard and all —how should she have gotten to the hospital? Taken the bus?
I got one and started with him wearing it right after this happened. I'm also carrying him at all times when we are inside the apartment complex but not in our unit. We are also not taking the elevator with him anymore. I'm carrying him up three flights of stairs with the muzzle on him.
You might also think about getting a muzzle for your dog if they are that prone to nipping others. You now know your dog bites, assuming you want to keep the dog you need to prevent this from happening again. A second bite in most jurisdictions is it for the dog (mandatory euthanasia).
I volunteer with animal rescue and bites are nasty — I am fortunate to have been bitten only a few times and could take antibiotics from dr, while some other volunteers have been admitted for IV antibiotics.
I mention the first aid thing only because she is now claiming blood was spurting all over. She did not accept gauze from me, there was no blood on the carpet at the elevator. I'm not disputing she bled. I'm not disputing that it hurt. The whole characterization just seemed odd to me is all I'm saying.
I'm trying to do everything I possibly can to ensure there is no danger to anyone here. I'm taking responsibility for this; I just want to make sure I'm not getting taken advantage of in the meantime.
Call your insurance, if you're covered for animal liability they'll make sure you're not taken for a ride. Victim will be asked for photos of her wounds, medical records etc so she can't just fabricate stuff. But accepting responsibility here means acknowledging that the victim deserves to be made whole from this ordeal, you don't get to pick and choose which consequences you feel like dealing with. You don't need to go through a graphic mauling to be debilitated by a dog bite, if she was unlucky with where the dog bit her (nerve/tendon damage) she could be laid up for a significant period of time. And elderly people take longer to recover from all kinds of injuries. She might need physical therapy. If she doesn't have anyone in her life who can take her to the hospital she might now need to hire help with errands, housework, meals etc. This person is potentially facing significant hardship and may take years to get any compensation.
Victim is actually doing you a favor by seeking prompt and comprehensive medical care here. I can guarantee that there are things she would rather be doing this week than dealing with the consequences of your dog's behavior. The sooner any potential complications are spotted and dealt with, the lower her medical bills will be overall and the sooner this gets resolved.
It might be difficult for you to get insurance coverage in the future, consider posting on r/insurance for advice.
Basket muzzles are good and I always respect owners that have muzzles and take precautions. Definitely do not want another bite on record. And you are taking this seriously so that will help prevent another bite.
I like little dogs — some are, though, more nervous than others. And bites do get infected, and can cause real problems even from a small mouth. With larger animals the potential for serious harm is greater.
You may have to get special insurance after this and you should outline all precautions to the landlord. The landlord may be wary having a biting dog on premises.