So I'm pretty sure that Wickham touched on this phenomenon in his Inheritance of Rome book. I just looked it up, p.117-120 for the right pages, with p.576 for the accompanying notes for other readings. However, this book is from 2009, which means its probably a dozen or so years behind whatever current scholarship is out there.
Wickham doesn't offer a concrete answer as to why, presumably because the scholarship is so hotly debated that I imagine only speculative answers would suffice. His best guess is that we're dealing with a devolution (always present in any state) of power away from the center and towards the regions, a centrality that could only be reinforced by war (e.g. Charles Martel's conquest of the south), and with more functional military power being held by the Mayors of the Palace, the Kings were being relegated to ceremonial roles.
If you want the primary sources, you probably want the Chronicle of Fredegar and its continuation, which covers that period as a relatively succinct narrative history with a pro-Carolingian bent. Otherwise, you will have to cobble together everything from the assorted hagiographies that were produced at the time. I know Fouracre edited a source book on Late Merovingian France for sources that aren't Fredegar if you want more detailed primary sources.
To me, this is not a uniquely Merovingian phenomenon. You see the tale replicated all over the place, from the Japanese Shogunate, to the Abbasid Caliphate, to even Late Roman and Chinese child emperors. This says to me what we're looking at is a human political power phenomenon. You have a shift in the center of power from the "capital" to the regions, from the combined de iure/facto leader to the de facto only. Why does this happen? Who knows, especially if we're not trying to be teleological or determinist.
If I may add an complement to this answer, the late Merovingian kings also suffered of really bad health. All Dagobert's successors died at a young age, in their twenties, leaving very young heirs. So, de facto, the power lay most of the time in the hand of regents from the local aristocraties, and especially the mayor of the Palace. (Source: 481-888, la France avant la France, by Charles Mérieux and Geneviève Buhrer-Thierry).
It was the year 486 when Clovis I defeated the Romans in northern France, and he didn't convert to Christianity until afterward 508. It follows that he didn't come to power (or claim legitimacy) through any kind of Christian religious appeal; his claim to power was that he defeated a bunch of competing powers in northern France (first Roman, and later Visigoth), and as the victor, he got to occupy the power vacuum that he had just created.
My best hot take on it, as a non-specialist, is that the Merovingian political system was always highly fragmented, with its multi-king system, meaning there was a high degree of pre-existing regionality to the kingdom. As mentioned, centralization had to be done by force, and required justification and collaboration with the aristocracy. A long period without royal civil war after Clotaire II meant that competition moved down to the non-royal mayoral level. Sorta like when you're playing Crusader Kings as a king, and all your counts and dukes are at war with each other, but they respect you as king. Nominally you're in charge, but the functional skill set of warfare and accompanying resources brought on by successful contests are accumulating under these subleaders, rather than you. And at a certain point, you get a tipping point. And now you're only left with some rois fainéants (weak kings).
But, this is only my hot take. Plenty of others exist, and the lack of a single narrative (probably a good thing) means academics in pay grades above me can't agree either.
It looks like the follow-up comment I was replying to has been deleted, but it brings a point that seems worth addressing: