I would think that the contract would have a stipulation about the price changing, quotes usually have stipulation to that effect. It could be a change in raw materials the hours could’ve gone over etc. I would ask for an itemized bill to show what the extra $600 comes from the original quote.
You have to look carefully at the contract or estimate they gave you. It is very common for small residential contractors to have a clause that their estimate is just that an estimate and costs may be higher in the end. I've also seen clauses that state they can revise fixed price if material costs escalate. And even COVID clause.
If you have a mortgage your bank may get involved too (pay the lien). I was a condo board member and that's what we'd do on outstanding fees, lien, bank pays it in 15-30 days, tacks it onto the mortgage. I'm not in Colorado though so Real Estate laws could (probably) be different.
Sorry, I didn't really answer your question. You probably have to get a real estate lawyer to get the lien removed, there is a chance that even if you pay, this contractor doesn't remove the lien. For $600 the legal route to fight this is probably not worth it.
Have no proof I agreed to the price. No loans or anything on the property and not planning on anything for a couple years. Is there something I can submit to the county? Or even criminal complaint that they are falsely charging me?
If you didn’t get a contract it’s likely you won’t win if you fight this. Even if you did have a contract quotes are usually an estimate only With stipulations like noted above. Have you asked for/ received an itemized invoice to see what the exact cost of material Ans labor were?
It just doesn’t seem legal that a contractor can falsely file a lien on your property with no repercussions. There has to be some sort of paperwork I can file with the county to fight the claim.
In Colorado the contractor is required to send the property owner a Notice of Intent to Lien 10 days prior to filing the actual lien. Colorado also requires an affidavit of properly serving the notice of intent on the property owner, with their lien claim. So if they didn't actually serve you notice, they have a problem.
They sent paperwork saying it was a verbal agreement on the increased price which never happened. Their policy is 50% up front which was paid and then they charged more after. It was a very small project and the scope was clear.
If that is their claim, then you can get a hearing to dispute (see prior link). If the judge rules in your favor, you may be entitled to any fees you incur.
If you believe that there is no basis for the lien at all, then it may be what is known as a “spurious lien,” and you may be able to get a hearing within just a few weeks to remove the lien. This may entitle you to attorney fees from the other party. See: