You can request replacement copies for all. Have them mailed to a friend’s house so that they can’t get their hands on them.
They take certified copies from the department that issues them for the state. They may or may not take short form birth certificates so OP should probably make sure they have the long form just in case.
The Department of Vital records in your state for the birth certificate. Your closest social security office for the SSA card. And your local post office for a passport.
Just to add. Making a passport requires a non copy original birth certificate. The state will take the certificate during the processing time and they will send it back separately when the passport is done. OP should use the birth certificate to get all their other paperwork first before sending it out for 2-3 months with department of state. For example if OP needs ID renewed or made again then they should do that before they send it out for the passport.
(My state lets anyone order the short form online from the state but the long form needs to be ordered from a county office in person or via mail. I ordered both mine and my cousin’s for our citizenships).
You can submit a certified copy of the birth certificates for US passport. To be certified, it requires the document to be issued from the government authority. It has a stamp (the ones that are imprinted onto the paper) or a seal on it.
True true. The kind of document I personally used cannot have copies even if they were original. There can only be one. And that is why I'm very aware of this situation. Just wanted to raise awareness but making two copies works for sure.
People lose their birth certificates all the time. The copy that is issued is the “certified copy” and is obviously not an original birth certificate because the original birth certificate is the original one issued at birth.
So any additional copies ordered from whoever issues birth certificates from whatever state or US territory is a certified copy and not the actual birth certificate.
So yes, a photocopy is not a certified copy. However, the birth certificate ordered from whatever person does birth certificates is a copy but is called a certified copy.
Just fyi, the passport is unlikely something you'll be able to get until you're 18. When you're 16 and 17 you need a parent's implied consent to apply for a passport.
Like I said. I did NOT use a birth certificate to get a a passport. You cannot make copies of a naturalization certificate. Not even certified. There can only be one copy.