Isn't that how it is done? If I understand correctly, (and I very well may not, but would be happy to learn more if someone would like to correct me).
Keep on repeating until you get the purity you need. So it makes sense they would enrich, enriched uranium. i.e. they are just working towards a higher level of purity, but each step I suppose it technically enriched.
3-spin up that 5% mixture to seperate out purer uranium - let's suppose you now have a 40% pure sample.
Spin up the chemically dissolved uranium to high speed in a centrifuge to very slightly pull the slightly heavier U238 to the outside, and u235 to the inside and siphon it out. Keep repeating. Enrichment facilities will have a series of centrifuges slowly increasing the enrichment from 0.75% to about 20%. By treaty and international law, anything under 20% U235 can be used for reactors. Most fuel providers won't provide higher that 19%, though most civilian reactors don't use more than around 10%.
Once you have your batch of 20% U235, you can run your centrifuges in parallel and quickly get it up to about 65%-80% or more. Technically you may be able to create an effective nuclear weapon, but otherwise, you rerun your centrifuges in series again to get it above the 90% threshold for most nuclear weapons. You cna get it to 99% but a little bit U238 can have its own benefits.
The depleted U238 (remember if you started out with 1 ton of uranium, you'd end up with just 7.5 kg of pure u235., so getti g considerable amounts of u235 requires tons and tons of U238. The U238 can be used for different things. You can convert it to Pu239 in breeder reactors, or as depleted uranium it can be used at tank armor and tank rounds ( though even the US is endnming DU tank rounds out of preference for ithe rmaterials and for environmental reasons. It could be used as nuclear shielding and be quite good in certain applications , as it's denser than lead, but people don't like to use it as such.
It's not about "purifying" uranium metal. That's "just" chemistry, and it's not that difficult to get pure uranium metal from simple known processes.
Extract uranium via chemical processes. At this stage you can chemically reconstitute it and have pure Uranium, but it would be useless for anything else for testing radiation detectors and a door stop.
Enrichment is the process of separating the fissile U-235 isotope from the more abundant non-fissile U-238. Only about 0.7% of natural uranium is U-235, and it can't be separated out with chemistry since they're both uranium and have identical reactions. It's usually some process that exploits the slight difference in masses between the two.
The remainder U-238 from the process is often called "depleted uranium" since it far less U-235, and as a result, is a lot less radioactive.