Your friend should confirm with the lawyer you choose, but I would expect that all work the lawyer does as far as negotiating the entire settlement would be covered by whatever contingency/flat fee rate you agree to.
As far as negating the clawback itself....it's going to depend on a lot of things not included in the post (including whether friend has an employment contract that specifies how severance is paid out), but generally speaking it is a negotiation and you can ask for whatever makes sense to your friends situation, but you lawyer should make sure your friend understands what they are entitled too as a minimum.
By default, severance is a lump sum payment with no clawback. The amount being determined by lenh of employment and rate of pay according to the minimums established by precident (often much higher than the minimums in the ESA, if you've been with the employer a long time).
If your friend agrees, they could pay it out as installments as a salary continuance. To agree to that, your friend would want to factor in: 1) They would continue to deduct CPP/EI etc, 2) Is there a benefit to the arrangment (Is the total amount they expect to receive higher than the lump sum to make up for the extra conditions)? 3) If they find new employment quickly, how much (if any) of the remaining installments are converted to lump sum, and would they come out behind by taking the new job?
Note that the ESA severance is a required payment with no other requirements. Common law notice/severance requires you to make efforts to mitigate the period by finding other comparable employment, at which point payments stop (ie if your common law notice period was 12 months, and you found comparable employment after 6 months, the company only needs to pay you for 6 months).
It sounds like they are blending in the common law notice with the requirement to find alternate employment, as it sounds like there is no contractually required severance or the contract limiting them to ESA only severance is defective (a lot are, as the clause has to be very explicit and include certain statutory requirements, otherwise the entire clause is thrown out) and they want to avoid a lawsuit. The biggest thing here, OP, is to ensure that the clawback is specific (ie they don’t claw back if you pick up a few shifts at a store to help out a friend), and a lawyer is really needed to ensure that it is correct.
I agree with the other commenter that you are blending statutory and common law notice. Under the common law, by default severance WILL be clawed back if you find alternate employment, because there is a duty to mitigate.
Anything up to the ESA minimum amounts is never subject to clawback, only amounts for the pay in lieu of notice...and even then only if earned through comparable employment, ie. Picking up a shift a grocery store to make ends meet is not comparable to severance paid for a higher paying professional job and would not typically result in a clawback.