It depends on your personal situation. If most of what you have to leave can be through beneficiaries (bank accounts, pension, IRA, 401k, life insurance) and real property, which can also be transfer on death, then you may only need a simple will.
What kind of property are you leaving? Is most of your valuable property the kind that can be left to designated beneficiaries outside a will? Do you own a home you want divided among multiple kids, or are you leaving it to one person?
It also depends on your age, marital status, health, and whether you have kids. If you are young, single, and healthy, a simple will would do for now, and later if you are married, you and your spouse do more in depth estate planning at that time.
First of all, a lawyer who you actually pay is going to do a better job of advising you than a bunch of random people on the Internet.
If you only have a will without any sort of associated trust, then here's what happens: You die and after paying for your funeral, any taxes and any debts you have, you assets get distributed according to the will, that's it. If you leave $1M to your grandson Tyler and he uses it to buy the world's largest toothpick collection, nothing you can do about it.
If you have a trust, then you can exercise a lot more control after you die. You can say "Tyler gets $50,000 per year, but if he buys a toothpick collection, then everything that's left goes to charity".
That depends on your having a trustee who actually takes that role seriously. Lots of people post here with "My grandpa left me a lot of money in a trust, and my mom was the trustee, but she used the money to go to Las Vegas"-type stories. And, unfortunately, once the trustee starts wasting the trust money, it's really hard to get it back. So, naming a good trustee is important.
The situations your lawyer talked about are the common situations where a trust makes sense, but they're not necessarily the only situations. (The $11M thing relates to avoiding taxes, so that's a bit different.).