She packed my stuff and left it by the door. I put it into my car and left, but living with my parents has been awful. I lived with her for around six months.
If you lived there for six months, you're her tennant. If she wants you out she must give notice and the state required number of days. If you leave willingly, you're out and she can refuse you back in. If you don't leave willingly, then she must go to court to evict you. If she forces you out unwillingly without properly evicting you, then you can take her to court for wrongful eviction. Court cannot force her to take you back in, but if you win, you can win damages such as moving expenses and rent.
The absolute most you could get (and you won't even get that) is 30 days at her apartment. A judge would be insane to grant you that but let's say they did...
Then what? 30 days passes, you tank your reputation, from then on women warn each other about you (and have the legal documentationto back it up), and you still end up back with your parents because you can't afford an apartment.
Edit: I honestly see this ending with her getting a restraining order. If you're this entitled to your exes home and money I find it very difficult to believe you're not just as entitled on other aspects of your relationship.
If you can't afford to move out, and aren't happy with your current living situation, that money is better off saved and put towards rent in the future.
Generally, you don't want a public record of forcing cohabitation on a short term ex girlfriend. Also, you don't have a vehicle that can handle the snow and it's a 35-40 drive to your job.
Sometimes, you have to realize that just because you can (and I highly doubt any judge is going to gaf about your case) doesn't mean you should.
You're better off moving into your own place than trying to force your way back into your exes home for an extra month (free of charge, I might add). This will be public record. Anyone is within their rights to obtain the case details and this is exactly the type of thing that will torpedo future relationships before they even begin.
Many courts now have their information online. You just need the case number or name of one of the parties to find the info you're looking for. Some make you pay for the more detailed information, but I don't know of one that doesn't at least give you the parties, what type of case, and outcome free of charge.
Through a PI or backgroundcheck firm, yes. And there are online data scrapers that'll have it, both free and for a small fee (2-10 bucks) available to anyone with a computer. Also, if you Google the person's name and town you can often get the public court calendar, which then gives you all the information you need to look up the case.
So if someone says "don't date this guy, he sued his ex to let him move back in to the house she owns and live rent free for a month because he couldn't afford a place and didn't like living with his parents," someone could go online and find evidence backing that claim up in less than a minute.