I must say I respectfully disagree with the answer provided by /u/Peepeepoopooman1202 for the plain reason he does not seem to fully address the question, or more importantly, the source.
Now I must also preface the Ottoman State is quite literally the breadth of a continent away from my area of (partial) expertise, and the author from the aforementioned source, , clearly has written extensively on the topic. He is however a military historian, his area of focus is not conceptions of continuity or ethno-cultural identity, which is more relevant to this, so the chances of a slight oversight is always a possibility.
The Ottomans categorically did not consider their Empire to be the "Roman Empire" or of any remarkable "Roman" nature. They had defeated a people they knew as the "Rûm" (the Byzantines, who knew themselves as Roman) and for some centuries before the Ottomans, the Byzantine State and large swaths of culturally Greek Anatolia had generally be known to the Muslim world as Rûm. Most notably, the Seljuk Turks established an expansive State in Anatolia following their defeat of the Byzantines centuries before the rise of the Ottomans, which we know as the Sultanate of Rûm. To the Ottomans, "Rûm" referred to either the ethno-cultural group we would now simply call Orthodox Greeks, or the territories they inhabited. To say the Ottomans called their Empire the "Empire of Rûm" would be like saying the United Kingdom called itself "Ireland" after conquering the island.
I am an Ottomanist and I do not agree with characterizing the empire as another "Roman empire" or that this was a consistent theme in their imperial image. There was some syncretism with the old Byzantine elite shortly after the fall of Constantinople 1453, but this is identified as the last gasp of this (Halil Inalcik makes this argument if I recall). Cemal Kafadar's work on the early empire (Between Two Worlds: the Construction of the Ottoman State) also does not mention this as a strong cultural force, either.
I wish I could give you a more comprehensive answer, but I'm limited by the fact I do not have access to the Bibliography for Roy's book to see his citation, in addition to the citation for the other claim (Exalted State of Rome) citing a book from 1873 written in in what I assume is Ottoman in Persian script.
The source cited below explains one perception made by a particular Ottoman. These things were also less clear-cut. There was also a large tradition among the elite of writing political ("mirror for princes") works and these reflected a wide range of opinions.
With hindsight Ottoman historians made the case that Suleiman had a grand strategy for Europe from the beginning but more recent scholarship (Kaya Sahin, Empire and Power in the Age of Suleiman) shows that court intellectuals created the concept of universal hegemony much later. This was also partially motivated by the competition with Charles V in the first half of the sixteenth century. This also has roots in earlier Islamic history, as the title used by the sultans in Ottoman texts is "padishah," a Persian term.
Putting the years Ibrahim Pasha compiled that work mentioned earlier into a bit more context: Selim I had just conquered Egypt and the Islamic holy cities, Suleiman takes Belgrade and then defeats the Hungarians at Mohacs, followed by his continued campaigns into Central Europe. This was in addition to the fighting in the East. Ottoman intellectuals are searching for universal justification as I wrote above.
Ottoman writing itself does not really refer to members of the military or the state as "Romans," either. The chronicles I have studied refer to "Muslims," "people of Islam," "army of Islam," etc. Rumelia is used primarily as a geographic and administrative unit, e.g. the Rumelian troops just as there were Syrian troops from that region. The state and empire was tied to the dynasty, not really a specific area.
So this area isn't my field (the iron age? yeah whatever)...I've read this interesting paper going over similar claims . She mentions Ottoman intentional "Hellenism" a few times, but I just love her summary of Michael Kritovoulos' chronicle of Mehmed II (pg 9-10). This chronicle suggests that he was touring his newly conquered places not only as a victor but as a philosopher king in the Greco-Roman tradition but as a direct "Asiatic" ancestor of the Trojans instead of mr. fly-by-night Aeneas. He goes to "ancient sites once visited by [Alexander the Great], such as Troy and Athens," and toured Athens and the Acropolis. Being "Amazed by the remains and ruins, he "mentally" reconstructed "the ancient buildings, being a wise man and a Philhellene." (says Kritovoulos). And how he went to Troy and inquired "about the tombs of the heroes, Achilles and Ajax and the rest." "The sultan, for whom a Greek manuscript of the Iliad was copied around that time, boasts of having avenged Troy and its inhabitants through his own conquests [saying], 'It was the Greeks and Macedonians and Thessalians and Peloponnesians who ravaged this place in the past, and whose descendants have now through my efforts paid the just penalty, after a long period of years, for their injustice to us Asiatics at that time and so often in subsequent times.' " And she notes "his great-grandfather, who...claimed descent from Alexander's lineage, is also said to have entertained a Trojan genealogy. In his Commentaries (ca. 1433), the Milanese humanist Andrea Biglia praised the 'humanitas' of Bayezid I, the 'King of the Teucrians'...'they say they were descended from Aeneas the Trojan.' ".
This simply isn't true, at all. This is also a misconception I've seen before, bizarrely enough also in Wikipedia. As an aside, I've noticed there seems to be some person(s) on Wikipedia utterly obsessed with putting something to the effect of "The Ottomans called themselves the Roman Empire" somewhere in the Ottoman Empire wikipedia page, it's been a little edit war for some time now. I'll speak no further of it, but it was worth mentioning.
Mehmed II apparently had a Greek mother who raised him with the ancient stories. A lot of the early timar holder were Balkan/Greek nobility as well and the Ottoman elite also married women from this group. The pure Turkish element was bred out of the upper class fairly quickly which led to an Ottoman ethnic/linguistic identity.