The exact calculation depends on the ship and cargo size and current value. The fact is also complicated that while Portuguese had a virtual monopoly of importing spices in the 16th century via the Cape route, in 17th they were (not so) slowly pushed out by the Dutch, with English and the French also joining in eventually.
Another great source for you is by Ernst van Veen, who analyzed the profitability of Portuguese and Dutch voyages of around year 1600. Most relevant are chapters .
Spices could be very valuable. In a of mine, I analyzed the profitability of Magellan's expedition of 1520s, and I showed that a single ship that managed to return to Spain with a batch of cloves (which were among the more valuable of spices, compared to pepper which was the lowest in value) and basically paid of the entire expedition which included paying the buying and equipping of 5 ships (other 3 were lost, one deserted and returned to Spain and is not looked at) and the provisions and crew wages!
In it, you can find an approximation for Portuguese cost of carrack that can carry 1000 toneladas of cargo to be 50,000 cruzados (Portuguese gold coins) but the prices fluctuated widely. At the same time, pepper (the cheapest commodity) could be sold in Europe at prices of 28-45 cruzado per quintal (around 51 or 58 kg). If we account for losses and round down that 1 tonelada can fit 15 quintals of pepper, each quintal being worth minimum of 28 cruzados, we get that a 1000 toneladas carrack can have pepper on board worth 420,000 cruzados, almost 8 times the worth!
Of course, the investors had to pay the merchandise, the losses, insurance etc. but to quote the linked text:
Sorry for the slew of questions. My mind is racing with possibilities. A young and interested man with a few moderately wealthy friends seems like he could have become immensely rich with a few of these voyages, as long as the weather held and they made it home.
So for the cost of outfitting (which would mirror the value of the ship) of 2.4 kg of silver per ton, the cargo would be worth at least 16 kg of silver per ton. That's like 6-7 times more valuable!
From Appendix 7.1 and 7.2 we see that the Dutch paid for outfitting cargo ships around 2.1-2.4 kg of silver per metric ton of freight. At the same time (from appendix 7) pepper could be sold in Europe from 24.5 grams of silver per kilogram at the beginning, quickly falling to 16-17 grams of silver per kilogram. That means that a single ton of freight consisting only of pepper would be worth 16 kilograms of silver.
In the same appendix tables, we can see that even in outgoing voyages, when ships didn't carry spices but normal merchandise and money like silver, the value of the cargo was the same or at least near the value of the equipping of the ship, so even the normal value would be roughly equal in worth with cargo.
So if I was going for pure realism I would be looking at more like 6-8x the value of the ship in cargo. That's probably too much for my game but it is good to know the relative value of the goods in question.
Obviously the size of the ship and how much of it was actually filled with cargo mattered. If a ship used half of its cargo space for victuals and other commodities it would be less valuable.
But just to showcase the great disparity in values when spices were involved, according to one , when English in 1592 captured the Portuguese carrack Madre Deus returning laden with spices, they estimated the value of the cargo brought back in port at £150,000 at the time, and that's after large part of the cargo had been looted before arrival (estimated initial value was around £500,000).
At the same time, it seems that building a ship cost around £6 per ton to make the ship (without sails and fittings) that would amount to £3-4000 , or around £10-12000 (but this time includes fully equipped with sails and fittings).
As we see that's an order of magnitude difference than the value of cargo English took of the Portuguese carrack.
Well, my analysis above was mostly to compare the value of cargo vs the ship in case of pirate capture meaning little accounting for expenses, and mostly in cases if the ship was fully laden which was probably not always the case.
If you wanted to trade the calculation would be different. You would have to account for shipwrecks, delays, and losses, victuals and wages for the crew, also paying for merchandise/silver you will use to buy the spices at the source, together with customs and taxes to pay. Loans and interest, and insurance to cover yourself.
Still, as showed above, the profit of a semi-successful voyage was practically guaranteed and it would cover a lot if not most of the costs and losses.
Even equipping just one ship for such an expedition would be super expensive as the voyage to East Indies was extremely long and highly dangerous, accompanied by horrible high death toll from diseases and malnutrition, and that's when the ship would actually make it without being shipwrecked. The ships had to be able military defend themselves against the locals and especially other Europeans who were jealously protecting their own interests. If they reached Asia successfully, the expedition would have limited time to buy spices - if they could even find and buy enough of it against existing entrenched competition. Both Portuguese and Dutch realized the best (for them) way was to establish year-long presence at the location and slowly sell wares and buy spices over the year to fill the ships once they arrive. Such permanent presence involved setting up outposts, fortifying them, followed by keeping (and paying for) soldiers, weapons, ships to defend it.
This all meant that while there were some smaller independent European missions the type you describe (most were failures for any of the reasons above, but some managed to successfully return) due to the exorbitant cost involved it was almost mandatory that to succeed, especially long term, necessitated access to incredible amounts of capital, manpower and resources. Portuguese did this through the Crown and, basically, theirs was a state-driven venture. Dutch used joint stock companies with massive amounts of investors that could raise enough capital to fund all the activities. And even in both those cases, the final tally of income/expense was not as clearly profitable as we would first think.