I think the best most recent account of Hitler's life prior to his rise in politics is contained in Ian Kershaw's Hitler: A Biography. I can't recommend this book highly enough. It is both authoritative and entertaining. I read this several years ago, so my memory is spotty, but Hitler as a private citizen was recollected as fairly unremarkable.
For instance there at times has been a myth that Hitler was extremely poor after WW I and before his rise to power, but Kershaw states that while Hitler did live in a men's home from time to time after the war, he was also sent fairly regular sums of money from his doting mother, who he often pestered for more cash. He hailed from a slightly upper middle class family background. He didn't come from da streets. .
He was kind of a lay about and not a great student, but not really in an unusual way. He was just somewhat intellectually lazy. Much preferred bumming tickets to go to the opera over buckling down over his studies. This is a big reason for his failure as both an artist and a prospective architectural student. While he wasn't completely w/out talent, (his postcards aren't bad), he lacked the natural talent in art or architecture that might have made up for his generally lackadaisical work ethic. A style that he displayed as dictator of Germany. He kept a rather bohemian schedule in which he slept in late, screwed around most of the day, got to work in the afternoon and worked into the late evening, then repeated. Often described as a procrastinator.
tl;dr - He was a somewhat lazy and socially awkward guy, but not one without friends. He loved Wagner, was a good soldier, was a bit of a boor in social situations who tended to drone on and on, not smooth with the ladies, but was a damn good politician.
He was generally well regarded as a soldier during WW I. Somewhat withdrawn and serious, but not unpopular with his comrades. He won several medals including the Iron Cross First Class, and served as a message runner during WW I, which could be a very dangerous job. By most accounts he was a good soldier and comrade, and his service in WW I was one of the happiest times of his life.
He was an excellent politician. He was good at organizing and originally saw himself as a behind the scenes guy. He early on described himself as the "drummer boy," playing the tune but allowing others to lead. But he turned out to be a brilliant speaker, and was far too headstrong to not want power. His performance during and after the Munich trial I would again say was brilliant. Both for burnishing his national image in a forum where he was on trial for treason, and for showing that the National Socialist movement was hopeless w/out him while he was in (a very comfortable) prison.
An on average 7 day per month trench duty, of which 2 in the first line or working 12 hours a day in a mine for 6 days per week, 4 weeks a month can't be compared but neither is pleasing to say the least. If it's not a major offensive of course.
He is described socially as somewhat awkward, but again not incredibly so. Thought of as a bit of a rube by the upper class once he started running in those circles, which of course he was. He was considered comically awkward and uncomfortable around women. Chivalrous and extremely polite, but in an antiquated kind of way. Very much a "m'lady" kind of guy. Described laughingly by Helena Hanfstaengl (wife of early Hitler upper class ally, Ernst) as almost sexless.
Good question, one thing I missed in my OP was Hitler's dad died when he was 14. He had a successful civil service career but was older and died. This must have had a negative impact in their economic fortunes. Though again they were never poor or destitute.
Thanks for the interesting post. We were taught in school that Hitler's family Doctor Eduard Boch treated Hitlers mother for reduced payment as they could not afford to pay. However your post states he came from an upper middle class background. Did the family fortunes decline or were the cancer treatments at the time out of reach for even upper middle class people?
This can be due to a lot of factors so I wouldn't call it odd. If you keep in mind the scale of the mobilization you had soldiers coming from all kinds of backgrounds. We can't peek into the minds of 66 million mobilized men but here are some reasons why some would look favorably on their time in the army.
Contrast with previous civilian life: Some were unhappy, unsatisfied with their role in life before the war. I can't find where I read it but I vividly remember a french accountant, who enjoyed the thrill of combat. In daily life he wasn't remarkable nor athletic but in a bayonet charge he felt truly alive.
Economic reasons: Many came from rough and extremely poor backgrounds. A better pay, 3 meals a day, higher social standing. Trench warfare is of course atrocious but mine-workers, vagrants or factory worker's life in the early 1900 was harsh as well.
Disenfranchisement with civilian life: Soldiers returning home for a vacation often had trouble adapting back to civilian life, especially that for nearly the entire war the horrors were contained to the front-regions. Life in a southern french village or an Austrian hamlet in the mountains were of course affected due to global conflict and the lack of young men, the effects of rationing, etc were visible signs off the disaster unfolding 400 km away but for the young men who had such life changing experiences the differences between the civilians living their life and their comrades fighting and dying was a mental strain. When at the front you want to go home, but when you are at home you want to go back to the war.
Their view on war: War is a boys game, the adventure, the glory, the honor, the cause! The romanticism of war was widely spread, the values of war and combat were held in high esteem. World War 1 would shatter most of it of course but for some these values, ideals would hold true.
The social bond: Or as you have said it yourself, the camaraderie. The shared joys and trauma's. Being part of something greater is a powerful lure and this was the event of a lifetime. Nothing could compare to this and they were a part of it.