You'll need to include your state. Broadly your recourse is going to be an emergency order. But you really shouldn't do this without a lawyer even if it means you don't see the child for a few months. You seem to be implying this letter isn't really from a mental health professional, which would be a pretty darn bold thing to do on her part. But either way you're either dealing with a fake letter which you need a lawyers help in proving or it's a real letter and that is problematic. You'll need to play the long game here and have your ducks in a row when you go into court.
If the filing was not served on you and it has been withdrawn in court then it isn't currently "in play," but I would venture to say it is a glimpse of what is coming.
What are your husband's rights per the divorce settlement/custody agreement re: medical records and speaking to his son's providers? If he has a court order stating he has acces to the records, then while you are waiting, it could not hurt to request copies (which you are most likely going to have to pay for).
Your husband could file an emergency motion on his own that she is defying the court order and ask the judge to enforce it. Judges are usually not happy when someone defies their orders, but you never know. If her attorney files a response that is jarring and/or the judge opts to hold a hearing, then I definitely think you need a lawyer and can ask for time to retain one.
If the other motion is truly withdrawn and she is defying the order, imo it is in your best interest to have the upper hand and get an emergency motion in, before they can file anything else (which may look like it is retalitory). Have all your phone records, emails, anything you have showing you have tried reaching her (sending a nicely, but strongly worded letter re: court order missed visitation via certified return receipt mail is well worth the $7) to show the judge and you should like the time and dates in the motion.
Here is some info on custody/visitation in KY - towards the bottom of the list is what to do about not being able to see your child and if you should file a motion for contempt.
I'm not licensed in Kentucky, but I'd certainly talk to your lawyer about filing the motion without her SSN and driver's license number. I doubt a judge would throw the motion out for such a trivial "deficiency.".