In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Now this is the problem I have with sites like this; I was edited out, start again the Defense of Marriage act was passed in 1991 and signed into law by the democrats and Bill Clinton and made it illegal for gays to marry.
But we'd be happy to see the fucker buried under the prison if he did anything wrong. That doesn't warrant a congressional investigation, we can just pass a joint resolution to tell the DOJ to do their job and we can move on. But as long as Trump-Nazis are in are in office, nothing can be that easy.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
We do give a shit. In many cases that is a problem. Nazi Germany did not rise to power by people who gave a shit. It was all about sticking it to the libs who cost them the humiliation of losing WW1. How is the Trumpism Nazis different from the Hitler Nazis?
I don't think you understood me. Libs don't give a shit about Hunter Biden nor his laptop. The Trump-Nazis think the world will be so upset that they dared to investigate the President's son, that we will be outraged beyond their normal distraction tactics. They'll sell it to their base as getting even with the Libs over Trump's two "witch hunt" Impeachments.
Most recently they change the part making gays illegal and change the name of the law to "Respect of Marriage act" But Biden blames Republicans.
Now this is an example of how much hate dems have, there are no Trump nazi's, none, Hitler was a socialist and ran the National socialist Party similar to modern-day Democrats, everything the radical left believes is what they blame others for.
Again if a Party's main contributor is George Soros the Nazi Collaborator who participated in murdering thousands of Jews and destroyed Governments in Europe why would you think he is a good guy and accept him as your main source of Political contributions ....come on Granny explain this one? But us Republicans know how he and the Nazi's cast blame on innocent Jews to have them thrown in Concentration camps, Then your Democrat Partymoney trickles to Antifa, and the scam group called Black lives Matter geewiz sweet granny how many radical groups can your beautiful Democrats cling to?
I am unable to reply to Granny the liberal bot on here won't let me, but to answer your question yes I believe George Soros runs you Party with his billions contributed to you, after all if you don't have to take it.