A case for what exactly? You were not "fired after saying I'm going to HR" and that could still be a legal firing. You were fired after yelling and assaulting your boss, with or without a weapon.
Your boss yelling at you is not normal nor is it acceptable. I was defending myself. And he only started yelling after I said I was going to HR.
Which is why I am here. He stole documents from me and when I bumped into him claimed assault. Even though I did not intentionally attack him.
I was yelled at after saying I was going to HR, which ultimately led to my firing. Nice job twisting the story.
Correct. But it is not illegal. And it is not the basis for a lawsuit, nor is it justification for using a weapon.
If this is true, then that doesn't mean you cannot be fired. You can absolutely be fired for defending yourself. But if true in a criminal (not civil) court you would have a defense.
Sounds like a crappy workplace, overall, but for harassment to be illegal it has to be due to a protected class characteristic. 99.99% of harassment aimed at someone who is white, or Black, or Hispanic, is legal. If someone is harassed specifically and provably because they are white, or Black, or Hispanic then that is prohibited.
What you see as "twisting the story" is what a court is going to see as "muddying the waters" even on an otherwise legitimate 0.01% claim, but ultimately no one here was there, and can't really tell you that you have a case. You would need to speak to a local attorney about it, someone who handles these cases in your area. And one tip: if your unemployment is denied, as it probably will be, you can always appeal.
I will once again, say, however, that you seem to be confused. He was reaching for a weapon and approaching me while I was already in the process of leaving. That is the only reason that I drew a weapon of my own.
And thanks for the information regarding the race issue, I was not too sure, but wanted to make sure that I did not level a false claim. That said, I do have proof of harassment, even if it is not race-based. What about constructive discharge claims?
You were fired, you didn't quit. And constructive discharge has to be quitting over egregious protected-class based harassment. Most workplace harassment, however toxic, isn't illegal. Some people are just assholes. The law doesn't punish them for it.