In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Well, after Florida lowered the bar to basically allow military vets and their spouses to become teachers without any certifications, there is no way Republicans are going for that. Only 7 teachers were gained by that program, and there will be many more teachers leaving soon enough from Florida, by the way DeSatan is operating.
If this goes into effect, I have a feeling that a lot of Oklahoma teachers will be leaving to Colorado and Hawaii in a New York Minute.
It's something like $250 tax rebate when teachers spend easily $1000s for stuff for their classrooms.
But Republicans paying teachers would actually contradict their intent. If they value teachers instead of blaming them for all societies and calling them lazy for "having 3 months off" (which we don't get paid by the way), how will Republican panic work?
And I'm not talking decorations but actual school supplies that their students need to succeed. It's fucking outrageous.
Sounds like a whole lot of work. What would be easier and more consistent? Just let the teachers claim it as write offs for the year, but also set it to a higher cap (couple thousand perhaps) instead of $250.
It just continues to support the idea that they should be buying things for the classroom in the first place.
So if a teacher decides they need to get something for their classroom, they get a tax rebate at the end of the year that essentially pays for it.
Why are you giving the town an interest free loan for goods they should be providing in the first place?
If the teacher needs to buy something the school should be paying for it UP FRONT. I've never had a private sector job that wanted you to put expenses on your personal card or wait until tax season to be paid back.
Teachers already get an allowance for their classrooms that the school pays for. This is to get supplies, etc.
I'm talking about all the things they get for their classroom that is extra. Maybe the teacher wants to buy some books to better their in class library.
What is better is making it so that nearly any extra spending that teachers do in this way can be written off in taxes. Just give them a huge maximum. It would make things way easier.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
What about decorations that you feel like putting up around your work area, but is not really required of you to do?
You feel your job should pay for all of that? If they're going to pay for it, most businesses have what's called a budget to account for that spending.
This budget gives you an idea of what you can and cannot spend on such things. We all know how budgets work and how typically money not spent is taken away so you have to generally spend all of it. And like with most budgets, there is what's called a cap.
Such a budget would vary from state to state, school district to school district. Some might be better than others.