No one can answer that question definitively. Since you could not find verification that there was a will probated at the courthouse, that means possibly that the will was never probated. If the will had been probated the executor was required by law to mail a copy to your half brother, unless the executor deliberately left half brother's name off of the list of heirs to be notified.
Thank you, I was hoping for some DIY stuff I could do to skip getting an attorney but it’s unlikely.
You have already indicated that a trust exists. Get the attorney to ask for a copy of the trust first, and see what is discovered first before you proceed to the next step.
After doing some snooping of a few of the properties I know the decadent owned it is a living trust so it makes sense it was not liquidated.
If the assets were put into the trust, then there will be no public record of how it was administered since trusts are managed privately by the trustee.
Get an attorney (representing your half-brother) to write a letter to the trustee that requests a copy of the trust plus any accounting statements for each year the trust has been in existence. If half brother is named as a beneficiary in the trust, then the trustee is obligated to send the copy of the trust to the attorney or to your half brother.
If half brother is NOT named as a beneficiary in the trust, then the trustee doesn't have to send half brother anything.
Ok, so if my half brother was named in the will, and received a disbursement is that indicative that he is a beneficiary or could that be irrelevant?
Thank you I’m terrible about small errors like that, even throwing my writing in word for auto correct still lets little things like that slip through in my writing.
Pretty much the only way to get any information about his entitlement or his status as a beneficiary is to contact the executor.
I’m pretty certain I need to get a hold of an attorney regardless but it’s be pretty cool to get an idea of what the process would look like.