As someone with a focus and interest in Latin American history, let me try and answer this to the best of my ability. .
1) The first of these is foreign invasion and military conflict. An invasion of peoples from the northwest (Mexica peoples or otherwise) may have contributed to a political destabilisation of the Mayan civilisation, resulting in attacks on cities and with the theoretical consequence of forcing people to flee into the countryside and jungles, fostering the creation of much smaller cities, towns, and less connected urban areas. However, while it answers a question of what may have happened, it does not confirm that there was an exodus of peoples.
Let us go over the number of theories that have come about the collapse of the classical Mayan civilisation:
The Mayan "disappearance" is a bit of a misnomer I would say (I'm actually unsure as to where the term "disappearance" comes from as I have always heard it termed as the Classic Maya collapse), as Maya speakers still continued to exist following the downfall of their major urban areas, and exist today still in Mexico, Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, and El Salvador. The period preceding the collapse is known as the classical Maya period, and the "disappearance", which is more akin to a collapse, is similar in a way to the fall of the Western Roman Empire in that certain aspects of their civilisation collapsed, but they continued to exist as peoples and polities following this time period.
2) The second is an economic decline - the Mayans had a very complex economy, and their economy was dependent on trade with large city-based civilisations in Mexico, the most notable of these being Teotihuacan. With the collapse of the former, the latter (Mayan states) may have experienced a period of general economic decline, a lack of jobs, and forced relocation.
3) Tropical diseases are another theory which may have contributed to a population decline, and thus people leaving cities for other areas, and unfortunately diseases are very common in tropical areas.
4) Another theory involves that of the Medieval warm period, which affected the world from the 10th century to the 13th, but this is unproven, due to the fact that these climate models do not exactly line up to the period of collapse of the classical Mayan civilisation, but it may have contributed to the "final ending" of it, in a manner of speaking, especially if climate patterns caused agricultural difficulties.
5) This explanation, a "climate exhaustion" or ecological collapse, relates to the former in a way that if there were climate shifts, it could have affected the agriculture of the region. What also could have affected the region were slash-and-burn patterns of agriculture resulting in soil degradation, the inability to grow food, and population decline from it.
So looking back on what we have, we have several explanations, none of which are confirmed, but which we can make solid conjectures about in relation to other regional civilisations of the time, and events surrounding the Mayan peoples. I personally do not agree with the term "disappearance", as it would imply a complete destruction of the Maya peoples. Following the Classical Maya civilisational collapse (not dissimilar to the Bronze Age Collapse or, like I said previously, the fall of the Western Roman Empire), other Maya states arose in the area. What is also notable is that the power centres of Mayan civilisation changed - the Northern Yucatán Peninsula became of greater importance than the Southern portion, and Mayan civilisation did continue (not a true "collapse", then) as independent polities until 1697 (the final conquest of the Maya by the Spanish authorities), and Mayas exist even to this day (although not in any organised polities, as they have all been subsumed by Spanish speaking nation states which exist in the area.
Scholars as recently as the 2000s began to question the terminology of "collapse", simply due to the continued presence of the Maya peoples in Mesoamerica following the decline of their urban centres at the end of their classical period, and it is still disputed by some academics today, but not completely.
From what I do know and am able to discern, the concept of their "disappearance" as a peoples (and perhaps the belief as such) comes from 20th century study, and seems to be another way to phrase the "collapse" of their classical civilisation. Most of this scholarship tends to come from the 20th century, specifically the latter half of the 20th century, although the earliest work (in the English language) where the Mayan civilisational collapse in the classical era is mentioned (at least in passing) is William Prescott's 1843 History of the Conquest of Mexico. It's difficult to state the precise origin down to the letter, however, of the term "disappearance", I'm also unsure of how widely it is used, as most scholarship uses collapse, as I stated in my previous response.
It's a great answer, but I'm not sure it's quite what the OP was asking, since the way the question and post text is worded implies that they're aware it's not quite true. His question seems to be geared towards the historiography of the idea, as in why we think the Mayans "disappeared." Is there an author or something we can point to as "Patient 0" for the misconception, or is it the extension of colonial attitudes towards the natives?
Would you mind expanding on the tropical diseases you mention that could have contributed to “collapse”? Would it be something similar to what we’re experiencing now where an illness mutates and then runs rampant?
Let me see if I can summarise it perhaps in a more succinct way and perhaps that'll be of better accuracy. Essentially, the idea of a collapse or "disappearance" tends to stem from study of the Maya in the post colonial period, not during the colonial period itself, as there wasn't much time dedicated to the historiography of indigenous peoples in Colonial Spanish America due to the attempts to Hispanicise them and assimilate them to Castilian criollo culture (or via the process of mestizaje). The Spanish colonists themselves never used the term "collapse" or "disappearance", for example. They saw it as a conquest and assimilation into the viceregal structure they had established in the 16th century.
The diseases and infections would directly and indirectly lead to a civilisational decline. Enough people get sick and die, and you have a declining population. People would understand that being in close contact for long periods of time with others would result in illness, so they would leave major urban areas and cause an exodus toward the countryside, but given that these insects, parasites, etc. are native to the region, there is no really escaping them, just staving them off. Such an exodus of people from major urban areas would inhibit civilisational and population recovery in urban areas.
It is indeed fascinating to think of this in the context of the Maya, but consider too that the "collapse" of the Classic Maya was really more of a shift away from the classical major urban centres and changed the pivoted focus from the Southern Yucatan to the Northern Yucatan, population changes included (once again not dissimilar to the fall of the Western Roman Empire). This change resulted in the rise of Chichen Itza in the north, and the Kiche kingdom in the South, the former of whom (the Itza) were not conquered by Spain until 1697, only 323 years ago, and was the last Native American kingdom to fall to a European power.