There is a body of European folktales, ATU 1365, which deal with the contrary wife. The ; it comes from Hans-Jörg Uther, The Types of International Folktales (Parts I–III) (Helsinki: FF Communications No. 284, 285, and 286, 2011). :
My grandpa always told a version of 1365B! Everyone in our family views it as his signature joke. It made my grandma so mad. Reading it in abstract form put a smile on my face.
How wonderful! If you feel comfortable answering, is your grandfather European - and from where? If not, how far back would emigration have occurred and from where?
The distribution of these stories suggest considerable age and is one way to tackle the answer to your question. This doesn't take us definitively to ancient times, but Uther cites medieval sources. In addition, the wide distribution hints at the possibility of even greater age. Perhaps an authority on ancient sources will recognize these motifs and provide examples.
I enjoy seeing what elements of the tales documented on the website have been preserved here. It seems like his version is most similar to the Italian one involving the well, except the idea that the thing was impossible to cut with scissors has been forgotten in favor of the wife just asserting a string has been cut with scissors entirely without evidence. I suspect this may be a dig at my grandma, which would explain why she hated this one so much.
In his version, husband and wife are going fishing, and are out on their rowboat when he pulls up his line to find it has been cut. Perplexed, he turns to his wife and remarks "It looks like it was cut with a knife..." The wife answers with prim superiority: "No, it was clearly cut with a scissors." They proceed in an increasingly exaggerated fight where the husband eventually holds her over the water and slowly presses her further under, until of course her hand weakly rises above to make the snip-snip motion with her fingers.
So, reading the tales on the page, it is clear to me that someone (maybe my grandfather) American-ized elements of the joke and also dropped any prelude establishing that the wife is contrary in favor of play-acting the extended and escalating argument between them.