This question is a little problematic to answer because what survives today is not necessarily the same as what was common 600+ years ago. What was "common" was unlikely to have been preserved because it was used as a working tool. We wouldn't know conclusively exactly how polished an average weapon would have been because so few of the "average weapons" survive in mint condition, not just because of use, but because of time. An average weapon likely would have been used until it was unusable, sold and the metal re-purposed for something else. Else it was lost, and it has rusted away.
So let's limit the question in scope and talk about the late medieval period in England and western Europe. Roughly the 15th century, although a fair number of the examples below stretch into the 16th century.
This is also subject to the Caveat that "medieval" is a huge time period itself with many different areas that had different resources, different skills etc. And you vastly increase the scope by bringing "greek/roman" times.
And the answer to your question is, absolutely, yes. Late medieval blacksmiths could produce forged weapons that are of a quality comparable to what you'd see on TV or movies. The catch is that it took them much longer, and consequently, the pieces tended to be much more expensive, reflecting the hours of work that went into them. This means, of course, that cheaper weapons would naturally have been less polished or less ground.
Surprisingly, they did have many of the things we have today, but with different means of locomotion. Blacksmiths had power hammers driven by water wheels, and we know, for example, that the was founded around 1607. Older mills existed but they do not survive.
Likewise, replacing a modern belt grinder, they had pedal driven and handle driven grinders and apprentices to use them. The Luttrell Psalter dating to about 1430 describes in some detail a grindstone with two hand cranks on each end of the axle to be used for driving.
It's also important to note that like many other things, swords were tools. A "working" sword in the possession of a warrior would be well maintained but might not be kept "pretty" and would accumulate dents and nicks if used in combat. On the other hand, ceremonial weapons would have been prettier, more detailed, AND are more likely to have been preserved to the present because they were as much works of art as they were ever meant to be working weapons.
So let's look at some examples of well preserved relic weapons. Like I said, many of these are ceremonial weapons.
However, I don't think it matters for the purposes of your question. A high quality ceremonial weapon shows the skills of blacksmiths of the era at their height. If they chose to produce less quality work for lower cost, that was a decision they could make and their customers can make. Spears and axes and mauls require less metal and less work than swords, and were far more common as mass infantry weapons.
is a 15th century design probably made in London, but experts think it was fitted with a new blade in the 16th or 17th century. Given that it's ceremonial but not "royal" it may be more indicative of common quality in that era.
presented by various popes to catholic rulers as gifts. On page 39 is a photograph of a sword presented to the Archduke Ferdinand in 1582 and some drawings of swords presented in the 15th century.
they have also been rusted, but you can get an idea of teh craftsmanship. Some hammer marks are evident, but they likey would have been quite polished when new.
Although not nearly well preseved, that carry a common trade mark. approximately 44 have been found in Norway, and 31 in Finland, but many of the examples are fragmentary. The earliest example is thought to date to the 9th or 10th century and later examples date to the 12th century. although it has been rusted and the hilt had rotted away, you can get an idea of what it likely looked like in mint condition.
Kind of a follow up question: how did blacksmiths (then and now) make swords that appear to be perfectly flat and straight? To me, it seems like it would be very difficult to do using a hammer (manually or machine powered). I've seen the man at arm's YouTube videos but still am not clear on how they get the metal to look so perfect.