You could have used your own form of contraception if you were not willing to risk having a child. You could have refrained from sex acts that could result in a child being created. You chose not to, and in doing so, you chose to run the risk that you would create a child.
You cannot force another person to have a medical procedure on their body against their will. There is NO legal mechanism to do so.
If the child is yours, you will be liable to financially support the child you chose to create. You can give up your physical access to the child, but short of adoption, you cannot waive or give up your financial obligations to the child. If she is on taxpayer assistance, the state will likely pursue support on her behalf which means she cannot decline to collect or name you as a potential father either.
Child support is a right of the child, and your main opportunity to avoid it is by not bringing children into the world. Neither parent can sign a child's right to support away: however your child comes to exist, even against your wishes, you have a legal responsibility.
You can, if there is someone willing to do so and with your co-parent's consent, put an unwanted child up for adoption, and the adoptive parents will take over your responsibilities, and your rights as a parent. That could include a stepparent adoption if your co-parent wants to adopt your child with their new partner, down the line. Putting a child up for adoption without both parents' consent is very hard, and generally only happens in situations of substantial abuse or long-term abandonment.
You have the absolute right not to be involved as a parent, however. The courts cannot and will not force you into being an unwilling father. Being fully absent from your child's life may increase support, as you are not contributing materially, but it is a valid option. One path forwards might be to sit down with your ex and spell out to her, in plain language and with as much calm clarity as you can muster, that you are serious about not having a child and that you won't participate, won't babysit, won't take her kid to school, et cetera, and that if she's serious, she needs to plan for that. No guarantees it will be convincing, and it _is_ manipulative, but it's legal and it's honest to state your intentions.
Beyond that, child support amounts are based on your income, and are not intended to leave either parent destitute. A child will likely change your life plans - you might have to find a full-time job to make ends meet, if you don't have one, or might have to move if your rent is a significant portion of your take-home and cuts into your ability to support your kids.
Legally, what to do next is up to her and the local laws (which in Texas, as you note, are potentially quite restrictive).
You can give your opinion, but to my knowledge there's no legal remedy that you can pursue. You can't force her to get an abortion. You can't sign away your responsibility to provide money to support the child, and neither can she.
It's entirely possible that the outcome of this is that she keeps the pregnancy, has a child, and you will be responsible for child support and you should prepare appropriately.
You can pursue alternatives; you could ask her parents or yours for help, she could explore adoption, you could both do what you can to find employment and start saving money to prepare for the child, etc.