As a researcher on desertion and defection during another American conflict, the Vietnam War, I’m very interested to hear about the process of defection during the American Civil War. Defection ostensibly involves surrender followed by integration - how did this process look during the Civil War?
Compared to Vietnam, lots more soldiers surrendered in the Civil War. In the book, I argue that 1 in 4 soldiers surrendered at some point during the war (lots at the end, but also throughout). Relatively few switched sides. Those that did (called Galvanized Yankees or Galvanized Rebels) did so to get out of POW camps, especially in 1864 when these camps became dangerously overcrowded.
Yes, they are in places like Andersonville, Point Lookout, Camp Douglas, etc. There were only a few thousand soldiers who did this, which considering how many POWs there were in 1864 is only a drop in the bucket.
The other option that soldiers stuck in prisons considered was escape. Lots of prisoners escaped from Andersonville and other massive prisons. There is a great book by Lorien Foote that examines how they made it (or not) from Andersonville deep in Georgia to Union lines.
What was social life like after someone surrendered or defected? Would they have been embarrassed to share what happened when they returned home? Would their new comrades-in-arms isolate or exclude them?
When Robert Anderson and his men arrived in NYC after surrendering at Ft. Sumter, they were greeted as heroes. There was a huge rally in Union Square, and they became some of the first celebrities of the war.
When Confederate soldiers went home after surrendering in 1865, they were almost always welcomed as brave veterans who had survived a lot. Many of those who surrendered with Lee at Appomattox later wore it as a badge of honor, basically saying that they stuck it out to the end. The Lost Cause did a lot to help former Confederates make sense of life after defeat.
Something that is always fascinating to me is the parole system and its mechanics. How widely was it respected prior to its break-down midway through the war, and how effective was enforcement of it by the opposing sides, lacking the kind of modern tools we would have to check identity?
The parole and exchange system in the Civil War is fascinating. During the middle of the war, the US and CSA had a formal arrangement called the Dix-Hill cartel that allowed for the quick parole of soldiers on the promise that they would not fight again until they were formally exchanged. It seems crazy to us that you'd release an enemy soldier on his promise not to fight, but both sides seemed to uphold the agreement pretty well.
Soldiers took their oaths very seriously. When the army wanted to send soldiers paroled after the surrender of Harpers Ferry in 1862 to fight Native Americans out West, they refused, saying that no soldiering meant no soldiering.
The system worked really well for lots of soldiers. I talk about a few men in the book who surrendered 3 times within a year and were prompted paroled, exchanged, and returned to their regiments.
The whole thing fell apart when the CSA refused to recognize USCT soldiers as legitimate. That's what led to overcrowded prisons like Andersonville.
That's a big question. My understanding is that in the eighteenth century, there was a lot of discussion in Europe about how to fight war in a civilized way and what the laws of war should be. Surrender and treatment of prisoners of war were part of this. You see elements the Civil War idea of surrender in the American War for Independence, where two important milestones were the surrenders at Saratoga and Yorktown.
Soldiers who surrendered on the battlefield (the ones who threw down their guns and raised their arms in surrender) were usually treated as heroes when they got home. To surrender on a CW battlefield you had to be really close to the enemy -- they needed to hear and see you over the smoke and the noise. It's usually the bravest soldiers who ended up surrendering -- they were the last to run when everyone else was retreating.
Compared to other CWs, surrender was much more common in the ACW, largely because officers and soldiers expected to be treated well afterwards. In other CWs, it was common for POWs to be executed as traitors (results vary depending on which cw we're talking about), but the American Civil War was really unusual for how often and how prominent surrender was.
One of the most important documents in this respect is the Lieber Code -- the Union 's official articulation of the laws of war, issued in 1863.
That's a really good question and one of the central themes of the book. When the Union introduces African American soldiers midway through the war, the Confederacy said that they won't be treated as POWs if captured but as runaway slaves. In practice, Confederate soldiers often killed captured USCT soldiers (called raising the black flag) -- there are lots of examples of this, especially in 1864 (Ft. Pillow, Plymouth, etc.) As a consequence, USCT soldiers didn't have the same option to surrender that white Union soldiers had. In return, they often refused to allow Confederates to surrender (see Battle of the Crater).
Officers who surrendered honorably were seen as heroes. After Ft. Sumter, Robert Anderson and his men were given an enormous rally in NYC. Likewise, Lee left Appomattox Courthouse with his honor enhanced by his conduct.
Honor, yes. But also that they thought they were fighting a civilized war -- a war that had rules. Allowing the enemy to surrender was one of those rules.
Honor is one of the major themes of the book. Starting with Fort Sumter both sides shared a common understanding of what an honorable surrender looked like: if you had been fired upon, had no chance of winning or retreating, surrender was honorable to prevent the unnecessary loss of life. Indeed, fighting to death was seen as extremely poor leadership. Nearly all surrenders during the Civil War fulfilled the rubric established at Fort Sumter. There were a few cases, like Harpers Ferry, where officers were seen to surrender too early and this was a source of tremendous dishonor.
The first chapter of the book examines the role of surrender in the Revolution, in 1812, in the Mexican War, and in Indian Wars. What happened in the Civil War built on what happened in these earlier wars (and indeed many of the people who surrendered in the Civil War had prior experiences that shaped their conduct). What made the Civil War different was how often they surrendered.
The prisons were really bad in 1864 after the prisoner exchange system fell apart. But before that, conditions in prison were actually pretty good (for POW camps) and most soldiers who surrendered didn't stay in prison for very long before they were paroled and exchanged.
The horrors of places like Andersonville (which didn't open until 1864) tend to overshadow how surrender worked in the rest of the war. Part of the reason why surrender was so common in 1861, 1862, and early 1863 (Ft. Sumter, Ft. Donelson, Roanoke, Ft. Jackson, Harpers Ferry, Vicksburg, etc.) is that commanders thought that they and their soldiers would be treated fairly.
Surrender also became pretty easy at the end of the war. Lincoln told Grant and Sherman to give generous terms. At Appomattox Courthouse, Lee's men were allowed to go home, given rations, allowed to keep their horses, etc. Considering the alternative was fighting a battle they would have lost badly, surrender looked like an excellent option.
As you point out, however, for black soldiers, surrender worked very differently. The whole dynamic of surrender changed in late 1863 and 1864 when we start to see large number of black soldiers and the collapse of prisoner exchange.
Surrendered soldiers generally got the same medical treatment that other soldiers did -- surgeons as a rule saw their obligation to treat the wounded regardless of who they fought for.
Sometimes, after battles, officers would agree to exchange wounded POWs so that they would be treated by surgeons from their own side.
The point in which things got really bad is after prisoner exchange fell apart in 1863-4. Then you end up with the overcrowded prisons like Andersonville, where disease killed thousands.
The above only applies to white soldiers. African American soldiers weren't extended the same generosity.
Some of the last Confederate surrenders in the war came in the west, as components of Edmund Kirby Smith's Trans-Mississippi department laid down their arms in May 1865.
The West has some of the earliest and latest surrenders in the CW. Gen. David Twiggs surrendered his command (one of the largest in the US -- 15% of the whole US army -- in February 1861, months before Ft. Sumter. Twiggs was seen as one of the first real villains of the war because he surrendered without firing a shot.
In July 1861, Isaac Lynde surrendered his command at San Augustin Springs in New Mexico. In that case he surrendered because his soldiers were overcome with heat on the march.
I do talk about the surrender of Native peoples prior to the Civil War in the first chapter for context, but I don't address the Navajo. It's an extraordinary story, but I didn't have room in the book for it.
I talk about that a lot in the last chapter of the book. There is a real shift during the 20th century in American attitudes towards surrender. Indeed, you find lots of American politicians saying that "Americans never surrender." JFK said it during the Cuban Missile Crisis, and you can find lots of other pols saying similar things.
I'm not aware of a case like that, though they were tons of examples of people surrendering to someone they knew, often quite well. For instance Beauregard was Robert Anderson's student at West Point. Simon Buckner was a very good friend of US Grant. The social network of the army prior to the CW was pretty small.