From the upper-upper Midwest here. When I was growing up it was a big deal to take a trip to Fargo and hit Red Lobster. When my town got a Taco Bell there were literally people lined up outside for weeks.
Live In the Midwest too. There’s amazing polish and German places. Pretty good Italian places(mom and pop Italian places that make different homemade pasta noodles each morning), great Mexican food, a great Salvadoran restaurant. There’s also really good Vietnamese and African restaurants. Plus others in forgetting. That’s all within a 20 minute drive.
As to the article, I backpacked all over SE asia for 6 months. IMO Malaysia had the worst food of all the countries, of the 41 countries I’ve been to it would probably be in the bottom 10.
Not sure how to explain it other than I just didn’t have good food? I spent about a month in each country so I had a fairly good idea of the food. 90% of my meals were at food carts or little local restaurants with those tiny plastic chairs. So the type of restaurants I went to were all the same across Asia.
There just wasn’t much flavor, no meals that I remember as standing out. No particularly tasty meat.
Malaysia, Indonesia and Singapore share many delicious foods that build flavour on a variety of herbs, spices, fermenting or frying flavour pastes made of aforementioned herbs and spices. It's something that's hard to find elsewhere. Us Singaporeans rarely make local dishes at home because of the sheer labour and effort needed. Not to mention the cost. Homemade food is much simpler, and being able to get local cuisine affordably when eating out is a real privilege. One that is facing danger of being aged out, but it's a topic for another time.
I agree with you. I backpacked and lived all over latam (im chilean), europe, and asia for 6 years and Malaysian ranks at the bottom of the list in food.
Tier 4: Cambodia and Malaysia. 4/10. Nothing really memorable about the food. Compared to tier 1 and 2 they weren’t even close. Very cool places, the wildlife in Borneo along the kinabatangan river and Angkor Wat were probably my top 2 favorite things I saw/did in all of Asia.
I talked to loads of other backpackers in hostels and there was a pretty solid agreement among everyone that Malaysia/Laos/Cambodia didnt have the good food of the other countries in SE Asia.
If you can't get Malaysian, try Singaporean (oops! Please, I'm not trying to bait arguments here, i highly respect our Malaysian neighbours' cuisine) or Indonesian. Absolute flavour bombs, don't challenge the spice level you're provided and it should be a great meal.
Now that the lunar new year is coming up (22 Jan), see if you can score some handmade/homemade pastries and biscuits like pineapple tarts, peanut or almond cookies etc. Often buttery and flaky, very delicious and not too sugary.
I’ve backpacked around loads of countries(all over Asia and Europe) and I was pleased surprised at the backpackers I met who had been to the US and said it’s some of the best food they’ve ever had. And that’s coming from people that have 20-100 countries checked off their list.
I just learn to roll with it. Talk to any person that’s well travelled and also loves good food and they’ll agree the US easily deserves a top 10 spot. It’s the people that go to red lobster for a fancy Friday dinner that think US food is shit.
A guy in Finland loved American bbq, he travelled all over the hotspots(st Louis, Kansas City, Texas and more) for 3 months to learn how they make it so good. Then went back to Finland and opened up a bbq place. I’ve been a few times and it could easily hold its own anywhere in the US. The place always has a line out the door. My Finnish friends said they thought they knew what bbq food was until they tried that place/real American bbq food. Now they understand how good it is.