I don’t think im being tracked but someone made a facebook post in my neighborhood and someone commented that police should track my car so they could catch me speeding.
They gave you a warning as part of their ordinary community caretaking role, based on your neighbor's complaint and testimony.
Police can generally not ticket for speeding that is not witnessed by an officer (which is why speed cameras are such tricky things).
There is absolute zero possibility, no matter how aggravating your driving is to your neighbors, that police will obtain a tracker to use on your vehicle as part of an investigation into a traffic moving violation.
Police can track vehicles: they put GPS trackers and bugs in suspect vehicles all the time. Some cars (and cell phones !) have speed logs that could be the subject of a subpoena.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Some toll roads have that technical capability, of course. They can ID a vehicle via its transponder, and measure its average speed between instrument sites.
Dedicated-purpose street level speed cameras have been illegal in Tennessee since 2015, except for in the limited circumstances of school zones and certain highway S-curves.
But of course those takes a court order to approve, and there is zero chance that your speeding is the sort of crime for which a judge would authorize that kind of measure.
I know that in my non-Tennessee state, the laws that authorize the collection of toll road fees also explicitly prohibit the systems from being used for any other reason, including speed enforcement. That's so strong that a red-light camera company had to destroy evidence of a drive-by shooting instead of turning it over to investigators.
The more general question of "do police have to inform me if I'm being surveilled" and the answer (at the Federal level, at least) is yes. If the Feds have a wiretap on you and they fail to get it renewed, they have to inform you about it 90 days later. If they keep getting it renewed, they can of course keep it secret.