So the battalion of more modern Leopard 2 led by Germany is complete (18 German and 3 Portuguese Leopard 2A6 + 10 Swedish Leopard 2A5) having reached 31 tanks in total.
And the slightly older Leopard 2A4 battalion led by Poland will receive 4 more units from Canada and may get 4 more from Spain, Finland has pledged 3 at least - I think that puts them close to setting up 1 battalion and 1 additional company.
14 from Poland, 8 from Norway, 8 from Canada, 3 from Finland, (hopefully) 10 from Spain - that's one battalion of 31 tanks + 10 more to equip another company.
Unlike the Russians, Ukrainian troops in Germany are being trained not just in operating a Leopard 2, but in the tactics of combined arms warfare. Training includes officer training up to the brigade level. That means these Leopards never operated alone. First of all MBTs and IFVs (40 Marder, 50 CV90, 60+ Bradleys initially) are basically joined at the hip - they only operate in tandem. And they don't operate without artillery support to call in as needed. M270/MARS II can take the place of CAS (close air support) and other elements like Pioneers trained in setting up ponton bridges, clearing paths through minefields and blowing up enemy strong points, along with reconaissance units equipped with drones and units like the French AMX-10, etc. have been sent to Ukraine with trained crews over the last 6 months.
Also, remember that they're getting about 180 Leo 1s from Germany as well. No match for the Leo 2s being sent (2A4s and up), but still more than good enough against Russia.
Not 31, at least 62 (2 battallions), probably more. That sounds like not very much, but remember that we're talking modern MBTs here. Those things, in good condition and operated properly, are themselves extremely effective, but even more importantly, serve as a gigantic force multiplier for allied infantry. This is furthered by the fact that the tanks that Russia is using cannot be compared to modern MBTs like the ones being sent here.
So being able to wage combined arms warfare NATO style is a force multiplier, it's aimed at high-speed operations and much more likely to succeed in taking large areas from the enemy in a short period of time than sending a few isolated tanks and/or IFV at a time into enemy territory as we've seen Russia do.
They have the equipment for combined arms warfare ("Gefecht der verbundenen Waffen" in German) but it seems coordination (maybe with the exception of calling in artillery support) doesn't happen until way up in the hierarchy which takes too much time to work. Having artillery, rocket artillery, air support, armoured mobile infantry, MBTs, pioneers and reconaissance all work together like a clockwork apparently can be, as mentioned, a massive force multiplier. At least that's what I've read.
Don't forget Ukraine is huge. 31 or 62 tanks is still just a drop of the water in the ocean. They've lost what, 300, 500? Need more than that to go into offensive. I am hoping for Bradleys and other IFVs to preserve more lives and make their hit and run attack easier.
The training in Germany also includes training officers to conduct this kind of operations at the brigade level. And the slightly older Leopard 2A4 contingent will likely be able to set up another company in addition to the battalion. (Depending on those 6 Leopard 2A4 that Spain is trying to get battle ready).
2 reconaissance battalions equipped with 30 Dingo, 30 Bushmaster, 10 AMX-10, surveillance drones and snipers.
1 pioneer battalion with remote-controlled mine-clearing units, mine-clearing tanks, 10 armoured Biber bridge-laying tanks, 6 mobile medium bridge systems/ferries, Skorpion mine-laying vehicles, sappers.
Exactly, and from what I've read, the troops training in Germany (and I assume those in Poland as well) don't just learn how to operate the Leopard 2, they learn combined arms warfare, working together with artillery, reconaissance units (equipped with AMX-10, Dingo IMV and Bushmasters), pioneers equipped with vehicle launched bridges as well as medium mobile bridges systems that have been supplied with trained crews over the last few months by Germany and others, air support (where available) and rocket artillery (HIMARS, M270) which can to some extent fill in for any lack in close air support.
Now imagine all those different capabilities working in sync, sharing all information with the same battlefield management system (Delta in the case of Ukraine).
And as those troops advance into enemy territory, more troops with older equipment, mobile infantry units with second-tier equipment like M113, pickup trucks, BMPs, tank companies with T-64, territorial defense units, etc. can follow them into the breach and advance in all directions to make it even harder for the Russians to gain reliable information how far enemy troops have advanced and where to establish new defensive lines.
With the tanks and IFV arriving, Ukraine will have modern equipment not just for 2 tank battalions, but for 3 or more mechanized infantry battalions, 1-2 pioneer battalions, at least 3 reconaissance battalions, up to 10 SPH artillery battalions, 1-2 rocket artillery battalions, etc. They're being trained in combined arms warfare and that's another beast entirely. These units won't be scattered along the front, they're meant to achieve local superiority in combined arms warfare - which they're currently being trained in, not just the soldiers but officers up to the brigade level - breaking through Russian defenses and advancing at a fast pace into enemy territory, while other units follow suit and spread in all directions, creating chaos behind Russian lines and making it difficult for them to ascertain how far the enemy has advanced and where they can safely set up a new defensive line. They're meant to form the tip of the spear for the next offensive.
Ukraine is only now receiving several integral elements for real combined arms warfare. If they already received training in advance, all the better. From what I've seen, they're indeed already trained in this doctrine for smaller operations, combining mechanized infantry, tanks and artillery support. Now they're receiving the components to use combined arms warfare in major offensive.
Plenty of systems for Pioneers (Biber bridge-laying tanks, M3 expandable bridge segments/ferries, remote-controlled mine-sweeping vehicles, Skorpion mine layers that can create a 1.5km minefield in less than an hour) have only been transferred, along with trained crews, in the last couple months. Same with French AMX-10, Dingo IMV and reconaissance drones for Recon units. Most important, the kind of rapid advance of mechanized infantry (Bradleys, CV-90, Marder) working with extremely mobile and precise Leopard 2 tanks was not possible, those systems aren't even in Ukraine yet.
More tank donations in quick succession are going to be questionable from both a polticial standpoing, as well as from how many are actually still available.
I think that depends on the success of (mostly American) efforts to get supplies from ME countries, as well as British-Jordanian and German-Greek negotiations:
Jordan has just (this year) retired over 400 upgraded Challenger 1 tanks they originally received as a gift from the UK. The UK have also announced the provision of Challenger 1 to Ukraine. If Jordan doesn't want to provide these tanks officially, there's still the possibility to "convince" them to bolster UK deliveries. If those end up being 150 Challenger 1, that would substantial. They also have some \200 M60A3 in storage.
Ukraine is big, but the front is a fraction of its size. Also, while the Leo 1s aren't as good as Leo 2s, they really shouldn't be discounted entirely. Most of Ukraines losses, meanwhile, were soviet-era stuff.
Egypt has some 2,000 M60A3 either in storage or active service. At least 600 are in active service in Saudi Arabia. Unknown amounts that have been phased out but might not have been scrapped yet might be available in Greece, Spain and half a dozen other countries.
Greece has at least 300 Leopard 1A5GR that are meant to be phased out and scrapped in the very near future. Shouldn't be too hard to convince them to add those to the German/Danish/Belgian contingent currently being overhauled, especially if they'd be offered future Leopard 2A7V and/or KF41/KF51 deliveries in exchange. And since at least part of them is in active service, they might not require a complete overhaul before they can be sent to Ukraine.