What is the outcome you're going for here? Are you looking to be released from your contract? Certainly you can't use a contract to force them to have what they don't have.
What does your lease say about this situation? Most student housing type contracts would speak to these issues. What remedies are offered in the contract?
I know I can't use a contract to force them to give me what they don't have, but I have been waiting months to be moved back. They won't even prorate my rent to accommodate this.
"If occupancy is or will be delayed for construction, repairs, cleaning or a previous resident's holding over, we are not responsible for the delay. The lease will remain in force subject to abatement of rent on a daily basis in the form of a prorated discount on an installment payment during delay. In the event Landlord cannot deliver possession of the Unit to you on the Commencement Date through no fault of the Landlord or its agents, Landlord shall have no liability and the Rent herein provided shall not abate. Landlord or its agents shall have thirty (30) days after the Commencement Date in which to give possession of the Unit to Resident, and if possession is tendered within such time, Residents agrees to accept the Unit. In the event possession cannot be delivered within such thirty (30) day period, the Lease and all rights and obligations thereunder shall terminate upon conclusion of the thirty (30) day period from Commencement Date.
"for purposes of operating efficiently and harmoniously, we reserve the right at any time, upon five days prior written notice to you and without your having to pay any transfer fee, to relocate you to another bedroom in the dwelling or to another dwelling within the Community. We will assist you in moving your personal property and pay for rekeying if we require transfer".
My dad called yesterday and they told him the manager would be back in in 20 minutes. Every time he called they said she wasn't back yet.
I have not yet. Mostly because I wasn't sure if I the issues stated are with reason to terminate the lease.
I have also contacted student legal services at my university regarding this. He sent them a letter and got no response. I have gotten any where with using the attorneys and I'm at my wits end.
My main issue is the roommate and my rent not being prorated. I'm paying more for something they can't even provide.