Absolutely wonderful answer that I wanted to complement briefly with of modern-day Mexico, and bioarchaeology data from 16th-18th century cemetery samples.
There was actually a major African presence in colonial Mexico. We don’t have exact figures but following some estimates Mexico received more than 200.000 African slaves during the colonial period. In the late 16th and early 17th centuries, New Spain (spanning modern-day Mexico, central America, but also parts of the Caribbean) had more black slaves than any other part of the Americas. After this, especially Brazil (far ahead) and then the Caribbean would become the most important destinations. Still, already by 1640 roughly a quarter million Africans had been forcibly brought to Spanish America and a similar number to Brazil.
So with African slavery a major force, your question could be framed simply in economic terms – why did chattel slavery not take hold in Mexico. This can be partly answered with chattel slavery being introduced at a later point, when Mexico (the earliest Spanish American possession) had already developed a different economic system – one especially focused on the important silver mines.
The other, maybe more important answer here is that in Mexico – in contrast to your other examples – Africans early on mixed with other groups. This meant that already by the 18th c. mixed descendants of Africans made up roughly 40% of the colonial population. By Mexican independence in the early 19th c. this trend had increased even more, and black slavery had virtually disappeared. This did not mean, of course, that other forms of forced labor for native and black people were not still in place.
I'll first look briefly at these larger economic differences and then turn to the fun topic of race relation in colonial Mexico.
I think is an important question also because it ties to a larger topic that's still not so widely known: the major African presence in Latin America since the beginnings of colonisation. While scholarly interest has increased for decades, there are source problems with comparatively few documents of course written by African slaves, and with Spaniards showing relatively little interest in them (in writing, not for labor). Plus there are larger processes of social and political exclusion at play until today, of which more below.
In the other examples you mention, chattel slavery was introduced mostly later from the 18th onwards, with Portugal starting to focus more on Brazil in the mid colonial period. “Slave societies” even developed e.g. in northern Colombia and Brazil that were nearly apart from colonial society. of really like Cumbia in the later 20th c.].
This connects also with the larger economic system of Spain: only the metropole (Spain) was allowed to trade with its overseas colonies. Officially, say Mexico and Peru should not trade between them. In the long term this meant that local economies were much more focused on export to Spain, and on producing primary products for local consumption rather than export. Some experts say this stifled Latin American economies in the longer run, which is a different question though.
In contrast, the earlier colonial centres of Mexico and Peru developed a different economic focus, with the silver mines providing the main income. There the extremely deadly labour (esp. in Potosí in the Andes) was mostly carried out by indigenous people, since African slaves were seen as "too expensive" for this (note the absurd logic here). Instead, many Africans did also work in less dangerous positions connected to the mines, e.g. in the mints.
and esp. 2) the increasing mixity between ethnic groups. This mixing could take place both in cities and in rural communities. Overall, we know that Europeans in Spanish America were even in the cities clearly outnumbered by both Africans and indigenous people.
We can say that the production of silver and its transport from Mexico was really the crown’s main concern in the region – with silver the motor of the Spanish empire’s economy. Partly because of this, agrigulture was of course an important sector esp. for Mexican production, but for the most part did not become a major source of export.
Restall & Lane make another helpful distinction for your question: between "slave societies" of mass slavery on plantation, ranches and in mines (so incl. chattel slavery); and on the other hand "societies with slaves" where auxiliary slaves took up a variety of tasks. In the latter case.
We have to be careful not see all this as too rosy or “cosmopolitan”. The Spanish casta system was early on still quite flexible; nonetheless Spaniards were clearly on top in the social hierarchy, and Africans and Asians at the bottom. Plus most of this movement of people from the other continents was also tied to enslaved or forced labor – the base of colonial society. Then again, by the later colonial period, the black and mixed black population had merged with the creole (criollo) and mestizo populations. By the end of the colonial period, black people had mostly “disappeared” into Mexico’s mixed society.
Due to these different economic systems, Africans and their descendants in most of Spanish America had quite a different status from those in Brazil, the British and French Carribbean, and the later U.S. Africans carried out a variety of tasks (of which more below), would often intermarry with native women, and in many cases could buy their freedom.
According to Restall & Lane, in the mid-colonial period in most of Spanish America, more than 50% of Africans and mulattoes (so mixed African and European or indigenous) were freed, through manumission or other means. This is in contrast e.g. with Brazil with a much lower rate of freed slaves, where manumission was more complicated. This decrease in Spanish American slavery also coincides with the British increasingly taking over the American slave trade after 1640 from the Portugues - leading to a major increase in slaves forcibly transported from Africa.
With some exceptions, Spanish America then had mostly such societies with slaves, in contrast to the examples you mention. Economic history is not exactly my specialty, so in the following I want to look more in detail at race relations in Mexico, and how Africans integrated into colonial society – probably the main influence on the petering out of official African slavery in the region - and what tasks slavery comprised there.
There were even large communities of escaped slaves or "maroons" that lived in relative autonomy from colonial rule in different parts of central America (and other parts of the Americas). Four major uprisings of such maroon (or cimarron) communities led to their demands being met by the Spanish authorities - there the maroons had become powerful enough to lead their own communities of native Americans and Africans far from the colonial reach.
Moving on to Mexico in colonial times, large parts of the population were made up of "mixed" groups, then called e.g. mulattos (European and African parents) or mestizos (European and indigenous parents), and intermarriage between people of African and indigenous descent was also common. Changing between such casta groups - e.g. between mulattos, indios and mestizos - was easier in earlier colonial times but became more difficult towards the later colonial period.
Most of those people would have been slaves, working mostly in households or as assistants in commercial endeavours, but a growing portion was being freed. Urban slaves were especially privileged, working for masters who provided prestige and could also free them. African slaves worked in various other tasks: in pearl fisheries and sugar plantations on the coast; in the central highland and north in the important silver mines; they worked as artisans and overseers. The Spanish also turned to Africans as intermediaries to control native workers.
By the late 1530s there were already around 10.000 Africans living in Mexico City alone. By the late 16th c., in connection with the native population's demographic disaster, the majority of Mexico City's population was of African descent. A peak came when Portugal, the chief slave trading state, was a possession of the Spanish king from 1580-1640.
More generally, the first black Africans were brought to the Americas around 1502, but at the end of the century around 100.000 Africans had been shipped there. Again, some estimates speak of 200.000 for the whole colonial period, with numbers declining towards the later period.
By 1571, blacks and mulattos actually outnumbered Spaniards in many of New Spain's cities, and sometimes also native people - they represented "the greatest threat to the realm," according to colonial officials. Rumors of a supposed Mexico City "slave rebellion" in 1611-12 led to the execution of as many 33 alleged participant (I go into this rebellion and others some more ). This clearly shows Spanish anxieties of a majority of Africans and mulattos taking over the Spanish minority, a fear common to other slave-holding societies.
Let’s look at the development of mixed groups (or Afrodescendientes) that is central to your question. In comparison with other regions we have some good demographic studies for New Spain, despite the difficulties of measuring population for this time frame. I won’t go into too much detail here, but the overall picture is: the indigenous population making up the large majority in the late 16th c (ca. 98%), a bit less by the mid 17th c. (ca. 75%), and still less by the late 18th c. (ca. 60%).
Thanks for the great insight! I'll link to this above in my answer now. Natural sciences are a bit of a blind spot for me, so really glad to get your perspective on these current studies - and to combine powers.
- For Africans in Spanish America the chapter "Black Communities" in Restall & Lane's Latin America in colonial times is a great overview. For a nice bibliography on this big topic, see article.