When looking at casualty statistics for WWI generally, but especially in France, it is important to remember that desperately haphazard mobilization efforts, the astonishingly concentrated nature of much of the mortality, and a zealous culture of hiding casualty statistics from the government much less the public mean that the dry statistical tables that you will find hide a lot of uncertainty. In a unit that is missing a third of its men, who counts the bodies? Medical units also only receive the wounded and cadavers who can be practically carried back, and so only receive a portion affected by biases that can't be practically accounted for. So the best way to figure out who died that the High Command arrived at early on was to do their best to have some idea as to how many soldiers were active in each unit at any given time, attempt to count who showed up where they belonged after battles, attempt to count who showed up to medical units, and then to make maximally informed guesses based on the difference. This rough methodology naturally leaves a lot of room for double and undercounting on practically every level, but also very little room for comprehensively understanding very much about who died aside from often rank, division, and combat arm as well as what can be inferred from them.
That said, approximately 1,397,800 French soldiers died in uniform during The Great War out of a total population of 39.6 million\[1\]. This would be a particularly extreme selection event when you consider the dead represent a horrifyingly high proportion of the male half of a relatively narrow generation of this total figure. Thus, at first blush, it doesn't seem so implausible that odd selection biases in these deaths could have noticeable impacts on who you would see walking around in France after the war compared to before. However, I'm not sure that we would need a direct accounting of the relationship between hight and war mortality in France to discount this theory. At least as I understand it, the idea is that taller men would be more vulnerable to having their heads exposed over a parapet while manning a forward trench, and thus more likely to die by a sniper's bullet right?
While the threat, mortality, and morbidity imposed by snipers clearly had a profoundly outsized impact on morale, experience, and memory of the war, it was also clearly a remarkably small part of what actually caused casualties. For the most part, WWI was a war primarily fought by artillery, particularly on the Western Front. For example, field and heavy artillery caused 60% of French war wounds\[2\], though importantly this will relatively overrepresent those hit by artillery near logistical centers while underrepresenting those shot, stabbed, or burned away from them, and also doesn't account for likely large differences in the survivability of these very different kinds of injuries. The vast majority of other deaths would be due to illness or during major engagements.
Thus, the real threats to mortality for French soldiers likely did not meaningfully select for hight.
For the most part, rotating through a forward trench on the Western Front for a period of time meters away from the enemy was a remarkably safe thing to do given the circumstances. The men in the opposing forward trench would be among the least of the threats to your health compared to the heavy artillery behind them, the mud, the fecal-oral pathogens in that mud, and the trauma imposed by the context. Survivor accounts suggest that activities like sniping and trench raids would have a way of reciprocally dissipating over time as the threat of reprisal deterred them, and had to be creatively encouraged to continue.
EDIT: I have found the following paper: "" but have not included it as I am not especially convinced by the statistical case it makes. More modern machine reading techniques than were necessarily accessible at the time applied to the data set could definitely do some cool things.
I assumed it had to do with less chance of any of the metal flying catching you, like shrapnel or non-sniper gunfire, just as function of the likelihood of your head being exposed above the trenches.
Do you know how these numbers would compare to Russian casualties in WWII? I once spoke with a Russian woman who grew up in the 60s Soviet Union and she casually mentioned that she did not know a single person through her entire childhood with a living grandfather because they were simply wiped out.
Very little in modern history can be meaningfully compared to the impacts and contexts of the extraordinary mortality experienced by Russia and Eastern Europe on the Eastern Front of WWII. While I feel ill equipped to attempt to more meaningfully contrast the two events, .
\[2\] Ministère de la Guerre, Direction du Service de Santé, Etude de statistique chirurgicale, Guerre de 1914-1918, Paris 1924.
Aside from scale, one of the biggest differences is the consequences of the very different war aims. The Western Front of WWI was a war of conquest and subjugation, with the Imperial goal of exerting suzerainty over the European continent.^(\. Thus, while the Central Powers were responsible for , and shelled cities like Reims, Amiens, Verdun, Dunkirk, and Paris killing large numbers of civilians, the industrialized murder of civilians on the Eastern Front was of an entirely different scale and character.
But the postwar USSR was in large part built by the millions of people who returned from the frontlines throughout and after the war, in the similar sense to the American mythos of the Greatest Generation. Even in fields such as literature and film (close to my own perspective), veterans, sometimes to the surprise of a modern audience, comprised a large part of the workforce. Poets and musicians, comedians and dramatic actors, directors and graphic artists, children's cartoon animators and clowns. And of course any other industry you could think of. Veterancy was an extremely important concept in USSR for the rest of its span.
Regarding the alleged statement: this may be a bit of overgeneralization. It is a widely acknowledged fact (and a canonical public speaking formula) in Russia that "no family was left untouched by the war". But that includes knowing the casualties — not necessarily losing close relatives to fighting (and the casualty not necessarily dead). It is true that (maybe with some regional exceptions), there were no people in post-war USSR who didn't personally know a family with a fatality, either civilian or military. Post-war reconstruction hardships, complications from wounds, and psychological trauma cut a wide swath through the survivors, too. And it is absolutely true that some families or communities were simply decimated, with multiple families in a community left with no male adults at all. Which would make the woman's case very possible.
\[1\]Steinberg, Jonathan (April 2013). "Old Knowledge and New Research: A Summary of the Conference on the Fischer Controversy 50 Years On". Journal of Contemporary History. 48 (2).
EDIT: . Soyuzmultfilm, the largest animation studio in USSR, had lots of animators who were WWII veterans (over 70 employees in all). In the article at the link, you can see a painting that depicts all (or most) of them — it is a play on the existing "After the battle" painting, into which the artist (their colleague) painted these animator's faces instead of original characters, to celebrate the studio's veterans.
Your second question is complicated by how what France and Germany are geographically, as well as who is French and German, has changed significantly over the relevant time period. France had a population of 39.6 million in 1911, losing 4.29% of its population during the war, while Germany had a population of 68 million in 1913, losing 3.82% of its population. During the Second World War France lost 1.44% of its population including colonial military deaths, while Germany (within 1937 borders) lost 8.23%. However, today France has 67 million people while Germany has 83 million, bringing the relative size of France to Germany from 58% to 80%.
So France has in fact increased in relative population size to Germany since WWI, while we might expect World War mortality considered alone to have had the opposite effect.
Ok, now seeing how narrowly defined the analysis is I think I can follow and respect it, but I still think that /u/eulos_'s presentation might be deeply misleading about the demographic impact of WWI on the three named countries. I'm more scientist than historian, but I think that the public health tools I was raised with might be more appropriate to the question than the tools they are using. While it is true that the annualized mortality caused by WWI for each country was smaller than or comparable to the number of existing annual deaths, the additional deaths were at least much more additive rather than is being presented and they will be very different.
The war mortality not covered in the graph, focused mainly on young men, will have had very different demographic impacts in that they significantly impacted the number of productive workers and households. In the era before the great demographic transition, populations were remarkably resistant to mass mortality events that would carry off the very young, very old, and the sick, as babies would be replaced to the number a household needed and the very old had limited impacts on the ability of a household to do so. By carrying off men too young to have started stable households but too old to be replaced, the World Wars did something very different.
Belarus was profoundly impacted by conscription into a dizzying array of armed forces, with attendant combat deaths, during the two wars and interwar period. However, it was one of the primary battlefields of both wars and the Russian civil war, and was particularly hard hit by German exterminationist policies.