In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
That doesn't even include the time it takes to validate each mail in vote so they know there's an issue to rectify.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
So the state allows for a scenario like this. You mail your ballot in a month before the election. You don't get any record of it being delivered. So election day, you assume it got lost, go to a polling station. Tell the staff you think your mail in ballots got lost. Get a chance to vote provisionally.
Well, given that ballots still have about 24 hours to arrive to an elections office, if they were postmarked on Nov 8, it's...kind of impossible for vote counting to have concluded counting all votes by now. Literally could not have happened, if ballots are still in the mail.
Actually the state allows for a couple of weeks for ballots to arrive as long as they're post marked on or before election day to account for any postal errors.
It also has a robust tracking system that allows you to find solutions if your ballot seems to have been lost.
Now the state has to contact your polling place and you to rectify the conflict. In a state as big as ours, there could be a lot of cases that will need the state to contact people. You might not get contacted until a month after the election to clarify the situation, get the provisional ballot invalidated so your one vote gets counted appropriately.
So there's a lot of edge cases that can happen where people genuinely and legally want to vote and we live in a state that wants as many people as possible to vote.
Also, as far as I knew, if you vote provisionally, I thought part of voting provisionally was pro-actively spoiling your earlier ballot, and not something to be chased back down the chain after the fact. But I've never had to do so (or any voting complications at all, really), so this would all be news to me.