In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Keep in mind this is amending existing law, so right after this section there's a bit further defining that it's gotta be of a child, not a milf. The full is:
because it's an empty threat, porn is covered by the 1st amendment, full stop, no getting around that, no matter how loud the right wing yells about it.
The right wing keeps wanting to change everything and destabilize the country because the stuff that has been stable is getting in their way.
Probably an unconstitutional addition under the first amendment as per prior supreme court precedent, but not banning all porn either way.
it's a backdoor, take something that's already illegal and just reclassify something legal as that thing.
The good thing is, this kind of legal shenanigan isn't tolerated by the courts, even as bad as they are, as it's basically...just a lie. The bill, if passed, would get instantly thrown out by even the most right wing judge. You'd have better luck just trying to ban the covered stuff outright instead of reclassifying it arbitrarily (which itself would get thrown out for 1a violations).
And when it comes to books about people discovering their sexuality, sex is going to come up, the broader point is THAT'S OK.
I mean...a lot of them really. Not like, with illustrations, but you'd be surprised how often sex scenes pop up in all kinds of stories. I was just reading a cute little fantasy novel by Neil Gaiman that's a fun little adventure with a pg-13 rated film adaptation...and it's got two pretty explicit sex scenes inside (as well as brief moments of pretty graphic violence) This is absolutely a book you'd find in a school library.
oh...yeah it probably was about ankles, I always assumed it was to keep people from seeing panties/bloomers, but having the crossbar there wouldn't hike them up anywhere near that high.