Welcome to /r/AskHistorians! We require replies in this subreddit to be in-depth, comprehensive, and to reflect current scholarship on the topic at hand.
We do not allow posts based on personal or relatives' anecdotes. We do not allow posts that are largely copy-pasted from another source or simply link to them.
If you're wondering "why is there no answer?": It takes time and effort for someone to write the type of answer that this sub is known for.
For a list of great ways to see how that pays off, check out of ideas. You can , read up on the best posts of the week in the , or set up a PM-based (NOT IN-THREAD) .
If you're wondering "why are there all these removed comments?": Because approximately 100 people have decided to whine about how many removed comments there are.
These complaints are unfair to OP and frustrating to every other redditor who clicks on this thread expecting an answer. Consider this your warning. Shitposters will be banned.
Grob GN. Public policy and mental illnesses: Jimmy Carter's Presidential Commission on Mental Health. Milbank Q. 2005;83(3):425–456. doi:10.1111/j.1468-0009.2005.00408.x.
Edward Shorter. A History of Psychiatry: From the Era of the Asylum to the Age of Prozac (Hoboken: John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 1997).
The peak institutionalized population was in 1955-- approximately 550,000 patients in mental institutional around the US, at a time when the US population was 165 million, roughly one in every 300 Americans. In 2019, with a population twice the size of 1955, we have roughly 110,000 patients institutionalized -- roughly a %90 reduction in the percentage of the population institutionalized.
New psychotropic drugs gave the possibility that some patients previously thought to be incapable of living outside an institution might be released to less restrictive community based organizations. Hard to justify keeping someone locked up in a miserable institution, when the prospect of medication and release to the community seemed so much more humane (and so much cheaper).
Federal legislation to accomplish this goal included the Community Mental Health Act of 1963, a part of John F. Kennedy's "New Frontier" social programs; he was reportedly particular sensitive to the issue based on the experiences of his sister. This policy had an immediate and dramatic effect.
Ronald Reagan dealt with mental health issues more directly as Governor than as President, and California was in the midst of a major deinstitutionalization movement. This wasn't perceived of a bad thing at the time; in 1967 Governor Reagan signed the bipartisan Lanterman-Petris-Short Act, a modern mental health statute with laudable goals, it sought to “end the inappropriate, indefinite, and involuntary commitment of persons with mental health disorders.”.
This was considered -- and objectively is-- a progressive statute, very much in keeping with the objectives President Kennedy set out earlier in the decade. What it meant in practice is that involuntary commitment became very difficult . . . the spectacle of the mentally ill on the street became common, in California as it did everywhere.
I'm particularly interested by the last quote from Seawright and Handel on where the de-institutionalised patients ended up. I have frequently heard that many of these patients moved "out of the institutions and into the prisons". Can you comment on to what degree this is true? Do you have any statistics on the population growth of the mentally ill within the US prison system during this period?
The hospitals were run by the States, not by the Federal government-- so Administration action couldn't really "empty" institutions they didn't control. What they could and did do was fail to provide funding needed to make deinstitutionalization work. And, critically, the States didn't have the policy capacity --nor the political inclination- to design a system of community mental health services.
So Governor Reagan is not unlike other Governors-- one can argue that he had less interest in community health services than did, say, Nelson Rockefeller, and certainly could not compare to Jimmy Carter-- but the basic policy was one which most people thought was good.
The Reagan Administration made things worse through the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act, which repealed President Carter's Mental Health Systems Act, depriving the community based health organizations of the funding they needed to support the deinstitutionalized. The Administration's actions caused trouble not so much by "shut\[ting\] down mental institutions and releas\[ing\] the mentally ill into the streets" -- but more by drying up the funds that were supposed to support the mentally ill who were being deinstitutionalized.
This was the issue that President Carter had worked on, and where a solution now existed, and in which President Reagan had no interest and consequently scrapped. Leadership matters, and the greatest failing of President Reagan in this regard is that having had the experience of running Sacramento, when he got to Washinon -- what did he do? Punted the problem to States and localities that he knew or should have known didn't have the capacity to generate policy on their own.
Writing in 1988, Searight and Handal made an observation that still holds true today, a rather bitter irony of just how far policy hasn't gone, and look to the funding programs, rather than a deinstitutionalizing agenda per se as the root of the problems.
Unfortunately we don't have great statistics on mental illness in prison from the period of maximum deinstitutionalization-- we have data now, which tell us that we have lots of mental illness in prison, but in that heydey of deinstitutionalization, how many of the folks released moved to prison? And how many folks who would have gone to State Hospital in 1953 went to prison in 1965? I don't have a source for that, but it's a good question.
"It's more complicated than that". Deinstitutionalization was underway long before the Reagan Administration, for good reasons. The notion was that the mentally ill previously held in large State institutions would receive care in their community, a more humane solution made possible in part by advances in medication. Reagan has two roles in the problems of deinstitutionalization: as Governor of California (1967 to 1975) and as President (1981 to 1989); as Governor he, like other Governors, oversaw the dismantling of the State Hospitals. As President, he pushed responsibility for mental health policy from Washinon DC to the States-- which weren't equipped to handle it.
The Department of Justice Bureau of Justice Statistics did a report in 2006 (not exactly timely-- I'm sure there's something newer, but this is what I can lay hands on at the moment), entitled.
which suggests that 64 percent of local jail inmates, 56 percent of state prisoners and 45 percent of federal prisoners have serious mental illness.
-- Highly recommended to read the full report, which has a lot of data on the intersection of drugs, mental illness, homelessness and crime.
Was pretty much "gubmint bad", with a healthy dose of "Carter bad"-- President Carter made tangling with thorny issues a priority, and mental health was high on his agenda, was a priority of the First Lady Rosalynn Carter as well. As Governor of Georgia, Carter had created the Commission to Improve Services to the Mentally and Emotionally Retarded, to which he'd appointed Rosalynn. One of the first things he does in office is to create a Presidential commission on the issue, which dealt with the subject in depth (think of Bill Clinton's Health Care Commission for a parallel) and produced legislation, the Mental Health Systems Act of 1980.
So as a political/policy issue, mental health care was very much associated with Carter's legacy. You can see in Reagan's hostility to Carter's Mental Health Systems Act of 1980 a reflection of Trump's hostility to Obama and the Affordable Care Act.
The Reagan Administration was much less polemical about it, though- they represented it as a budgetary necessity, and accomplished the repeal in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act-- eg no straight vote of a "Repeal Obamacare" variety, but the motivations were pretty much the same.
One thing to note about the Reagan policies which are much hated by mental health advocates-- what Reagan did, for the most part, was to convert mandates with funding "you will build 100 beds in the community and here's the money to pay for it" to block grants "here's the money, do what you want with it".
You can see this as a legitimate anti-Federalist position, "Sacramento is in a better position to decide how to spend their money than Washinon". In practice, no State chose to spend their money, if given a choice, on doing what they'd have done under the Mental Health Systems Act of 1980.
See: "Ronald Reagan's shameful legacy: Violence, the homeless, mental illness" for a more critical take on Reagan than I'm presenting.
They were rolled up with other issues in the ADAMH (= Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Services ) block grant. One of the things that was noted was that the political constituencies for mental health services at the State and local level were relatively weak.
So one can see that more money and attention get spent on policing issues-- everyone wants "drugs off the streets"; much less support for community based mental health centers. There was a lot of nimbyism there too, assisted living facilities for the mentally ill not only don't have a lot of support, they provoke a lot of opposition. By moving the locus of fudning decisions from Washinon to the community-- well, the community was generally of a mind that we don't want a facility for the mentally ill here.
Alex Beam, Gracefully Insane: The Rise and Fall of America’s Premier Mental Hospital (New York: Public Affairs, 2003).
Michel Foucault, Madness and Civilization: A History of Insanity in the Age of Reason (New York: Vintage Books, 1988).