Small scale migration? British genetics were seriously impacted by Anglo-Saxon migrations it was not a small migration at all. That is the typical archaeological "pots not people" argument which doesn't seem to apply to the Anglo-Saxon migrations.
Literally nobody argues that there wasn't any migration in post-imperial Britain, because "pots not people". What's (sometimes strongly) debated is the scale, the cohesion and the nature of these migrations compared to the traditional historiography where entire peoples (their politic and social structures with them) would have translated across the North Sea.
Likewise, the genetic impact on contemporary Britain (especially in Eastern regions, with a less diverse genetic landscape than the other regions) informs us on the consequences of these migrations, but not their make-up or their scale; that's where we need to turn to archeological evidence and historic context.
Post-Imperial Britain was essentially ruined in the Vth century, its institutions having collapsed, its economy significantly simplified and its society disrupted; people coalescing into smaller and impoverished communities. Eastern Britain in particular seems to have been significantly hit by these changes, with fewer emerging communities and early polities forming out of what had been the most Roman part of the diocese, quite possibly possibly because of this, with the difficulties re-building social and economical lives that were more dependent from their relation with the Empire and its institutions.
This provided an opportunity for small-scale familial establishments comprising some tens of men and women at least for the mid-to-late Vth century, without evidence of the traditionally held large-scale and cohesive groups of peoples translating across the North Sea from their motherland, would it be traces of strong social hierarchy, widespread and important settlements, disappearance of native features, etc.
It's not to say that there was definitely not the occasional larger migration, possibly led by a great or famous man, but that remains speculative and, eventually, unnecessary to propose an explanation to what might have happened when regular and several small-scale familial groups seems to have continuously migrating into eastern Britain in the "low hundreds of thousands spread over an hundred years or so \[...\] still a minority at a 'national' scale"1.
Roman Britain, in comparison of other western Roman provinces, was faintly populated to begin with and the continual stress over its population in Late Antiquity, especially in the destitute eastern regions certainly advantaged newcomers, not unlike what seems to have happened in Balkans in the VIth and VIIth centuries.
How exactly advantaged were these newcomers is another matter altogether. Getting rid of the elephant in the room, it's probable that violence might have played a role, but it is not really attested as a generalized phenomenon (it is true that social violence leaves little evidence, tough, and it might have played a role in the late Vth-VIth centuries); but the attractiveness of a less socially polarized way of life, a better connection to North Sea and Channel trade, a pastoral way of life (possibly more resilient in time of climatic changes and epidemics), etc. might have impacted there along with a general cultural and identity shifts on the Vth-to-VIth centuries, with the caveat that focusing on the "why" of Germanization of eastern Britain too much is made at the risk of ignoring the cases where migrants went native, possibly "re-Germanizing" later trough exchanges, sense of kingship and being part of the regional changes.
Overall, it's difficult to consider the likelihood of large-scale migrations that would have left little to none evidence (without even considering the adventus at face value) where a set of small-scale migrations over the Vth and VIth centuries (which are not necessarily that easy to distinguish from later settlements of the IXth and Xth centuries on a genetic ground2) could provide a first explanation with satisfying fitting to archeological and genetic evidence.
Actually quite a lot of people argue that the migration event of the Anglo-Saxons was small, and that the local people became Anglo-Saxons because of trade and exchanges of ideas. Which is the essence of 'pots not peoples', I never made any references to a "nobody migrated" argument.
2 Anglo-Saxon DNA?; Catherine Hills; in Mortuary Practices and Social Identities in the Middle Ages; D. Sawyer an H. Williams (eds.); Exeter; 2001.