The substance of Franklin’s reforms was fairly simple. The post office he inherited was a barely functioning mess, and most post was carried privately by merchants and travelers. Franklin’s basic innovations were straightforward: He had postal riders travel by night as well as day, as you noted. He also penalized postal riders for delays, and he had post offices tally and list letters, so that there would be a record of when a letter had been sent, and post riders could be held to account for their efficiency. He also improved the roads, laying milestones along the post roads, so that post riders wouldn’t get lost, and would be able to measure how far they’d travelled. Making the post officer more reliable also made it more popular, and the volume of mail increased dramatically under his leadership.
But really, 24 hours between New York and Philadelphia is not so remarkable, if you think about how the post office worked in the colonial period. There was no home delivery of letters. The post office merely transported letters between post offices. If you were expecting a letter, you’d go to the post office and see if it had arrived. And in fact, one of Franklin’s reforms was keeping “dead letters” or unclaimed letters at the post office for one month. So if one post rider goes from New York to Philadelphia once a day, and another post rider goes from Philadelphia to New York once a day, all you have to do to get this amazing service is show up at the post office in New York before the rider leaves, give him your letter for Philadelphia. Then, your interlocutor in Philadelphia just has to pick up the letter from the post office and write his reply before the next day’s post rider leaves.
As for the “remarkable” 24 hour deliver between New York and Philadelphia, I couldn’t find a scholarly source for this fact (I didn't look very hard, to be fair), but I don’t disbelieve it. Moving mail quickly between New York, Philadelphia, and Boston was a huge priority for Franklin, because he wanted the official packet ships that carried mail between New York and London to be able to serve all three cities. Franklin had the packet ships wait for several days at New York, which meant, if he could move the mail up and down the eastern seaboard quickly enough, a letter from London could get from New York to Philadelphia, receive a reply, and then the reply could get back to New York quickly enough to go out on the same ship the original letter came in on.
The post office no longer provides a service like this, because it is a much, much, much more efficient system designed to move millions of pieces of mail, not only between post offices, but between every address in America. Franklin’s colonial post office faced a much simpler task. That said, if you did need to send a letter between New York and Philadelphia and get a same day reply, you would have no problem hiring a courier service to do it for you. Before the internet/fax machine, I would assume that a huge amount of business correspondence went back and forth in just that manner on the trains that run between the two cities.
Kathleen Grandjean, American Passage: The Communications Frontier in Early New England (2015) (this book only deals with Franklin briefly in its conclusion, but it was handy as provides a very efficient summary of his reforms).
Rohit T. Aggarwala, “‘One Chief Letter Office at New-York’: Packet Ships, Imperial Administration, and the Geography of the American Post, 1692–1783” (2019).
So, in general, a “packet ship” refers to a ship that departs on a fixed schedule - it does not refer to any particular type of ship. Prior to the early 19th century, merchant ships never sailed on a schedule. Generally, they arrived in a port, unloaded their cargo, and then slowly filled up with new cargo. When the hold was full, however long that took, they would depart. Thus, the timing of arrivals and departures varied based not only on factors like wind, weather, climate, route, etc., but also on merchant’s decisions about what kinds of goods they were transporting, how expensive those goods were, and their commercial priorities. So, for example, one merchant, who had received news via another merchant’s ship from Holland that logwood was getting excellent prices in Amsterdam, might fill up his ship as quickly as possible so he could take advantage of the market, even if logwood was “dear” or expensive in New York at that moment. Another merchant, shipping wheat to Jamaica, might hold out months for a better price from farmers in New York.
I looked up the distance between Manhattan and Philadelphia and found its about 100 miles. This doesn't seem like a realistic distance for a horse to cover in a 12 hour day. Was this route run like the Pony Express with a series of handoffs between horses at full gallop over shorter distances?
In the colonial period, “packet service” referred to scheduled departures of ships who were under contract with governments to carry mail. In the British case, operated by the General Post Office, as part of Britain’s imperial administration. The service was driven by military needs. It was first introduced between New York and Bristol around 1710, but quickly discontinued when Queen Anne’s War ended around 1712. [The British Post Office also ran packets between different European cities and to the Caribbean, although I don’t know the dates that those services began]. During the Seven Years War, the New York - Bristol service was reintroduced, along with a Packet service to Charleston and to the West Indies. The reason why imperial officials liked the packet ship was that they were generally a more secure, reliable, regular, and trustworthy way to communicate military intelligence (for example, they could be counted on to destroy the mail if captured by an enemy ship), as opposed to relying on private merchants - many of whom, incidentally engaged in rampant smuggling with enemy (read: French) colonies, even during wartime. Thus, the packets offered a more secure way to transport information across the Atlantic during wartime.
After the war ended in 1763, British officials continued the Packet service, and tried to make it profitable. They ran 12 packets a year using 3 ships, departing once a month. However, most mail continued to travel in private merchant vessels. So, for example, in 1769, 66 ships departed Boston for Britain, 37 ships departed Philadelphia, and 47 departed New York. Only 12 packets sailed, all from New York. So for most people, most of the time, the easiest way to get a letter to Britain was on a private merchant ship. That said, there was a seasonal dimension. Merchant ships mostly sailed in the summer, so in the winter, the monthly scheduled packet ships became a more important service. [It is worth noting that, although, for obvious reasons, we don’t have records of how many letters were sent through private means, probably through the end of the colonial period, even within North America, most of the mail was carried by private ships traveling along the coast, not by the post office. So the postal system complemented or supplemented the use of coastal vessels to carry mail, it did not replace it].
In the 19th century, private merchant shipping would move to a “packet ship” system, of scheduled arrivals and departures. This was one part of a commercial revolution with vast implications for global trade and New York’s place in it. But when Franklin was running the Post Office, that transformation lay well over a half-century in the future.
The above-mentioned: Aggarwala, “‘One Chief Letter Office at New-York’: Packet Ships, Imperial Administration, and the Geography of the American Post, 1692–1783” (2019).
Apparently, the West Indian packet ships were 150 tons, and carried 26 men each, while the New York Packets were larger, owing to how rough the North Atlantic could be in the winter: 200 tons, manned by 30 men. However, I’m not really a boat person, so I don’t have any idea what that tonnage means in practice. Perhaps mid-size by 18th century standards? Apparently, however, the carrying of merchandize by the packets was forbidden, to ensure that no private interests corrupted or interfered with the central information and post-carrying functions of the Packets.