If you are using his writing, you have to contact him for permission or you can get sued by him for copyright violation and have your book banned from sale.
His estate owns the copyright for 70 years after his death. Even if he has no family members, they are still under his copyright for 70 years after he dies.
Look, would you like it if someone published your private letters for profit? Meghan Markel just won a multi-million dollar lawsuit against a newspaper that published a letter she sent to her father.
I'm not a lawyer, but I owned a publishing company for over 15 years. Write your own text... Don't steal from others.
The fair use rule applies only to non profit AFAIK, like if a professor used an excerpt to teach a class.
I am not looking for judgment, I’m looking for legal advice. This person leeched off of me for years and then harassed me from prison. I tried to be a friend to him and he repeatedly crossed boundaries I set. I want to write the story because there are incredibly different perspectives between us. I have my own texts already. If he can overcome his mental illness/obsession then we can do this together but it feels unsafe to contact him again until he gets himself together. I can write it without taking directly from the letters, I just need to know the legal guidelines for that.
You've gotten the legal advice several times, you just seem to not like what the law says. You cannot use his letters. Full stop.
Got it. Am I able to quote him at all and cite my source as if in an academic paper? I’m ignorant of what would be done further within the publishing process but some quick Googling revealed a “400 word rule” and the “fair use rule”. I understand those are loose terms and subject to plenty but assuming I use no direct quotes and only relate ideas from the letters that I’ve further expounded upon myself can I still pull generally from those letters?
Title: I want to write and probably publish a novel using some general content and several direct quotes from letters I received from someone in prison who had a sort of obsession with me. Could I be implicated in a legal issue by not asking his permission first?
Thanks for the replies, I expected it to be a problem but was trying to stay hopeful. Morbid but necessary to know- do the circumstances change entirely if he were to pass away or would I instead have to get permission from a family member?