You're not going to jail, but you could in theory. You have been charged with a crime. Lots of people in VA find themselves in this situation. The smart ones hire an attorney to represent them and hopefully get everything knocked down to a non-criminal charge. The people who hire attorneys (I sound like a bad commercial here) sleep much better at night. Start calling around tomorrow.
I plan on doing most of this. Unfortunately i cannot perform the community service in time because i work 7 days a week all day. But i plan on doing the other stuff.
You can't afford to not have a lawyer. Many will take payment plans. Get a loan. Ask friends. Sell your new car. Seriously. If you are convicted of this, it will be far more expensive than a lawyer. Your insurance will skyrocket. You could lose your license for six months. You'll have a criminal record. You can avoid all or most of that. The insurance hike alone will be more than a lawyer. It's the cheapest option.
PA and VA are both members of the DLC (Drivers License Compact). PA can suspend your license because of the ticket in VA, but you are correct, VA itself cannot suspend your PA license. I'd keep calling attorneys to find one who can knock this down. You're looking at $2,500 in fines plus court fees and thousands in increased insurance rates.
Unfortunately, we’re not all in positions to be able to afford a lawyer. The most i can do is ask a public defender and work from there. I didn’t get this yesterday and exhausted my options.
Unfortunately i don’t have the ability to do any of that. I had a free consult with an attorney. I’m unable to have my license to suspended by VA because i live in PA. Unfortunately i live very paycheck to paycheck and have almost no money.
Not worried about the actual license suspension. I’m moving soon and working from home so not driving often. The lawyer is $2500 alone along with non guarantee of knocking the fine down and having to pay for the other things he said i should do before the court date. Unfortunately, i can only request a public defender at the moment and do the things the lawyer consult said. I was denied for loans and do not own anything i can sell like that. I’m not in a position for it.