Phew, that is a lot to deal with. Do you have anyone in the family to assist you with understanding your options?
1) The mortgage terms may allow you to stay in the house and continue paying for a period of time like 3,6,12 months. A copy of the mortgage or a call to the lender to inquire can answer that. Of course, if you call you may also start the clock ticking.
3) Houses are expensive to maintain. If you received an inheritance that can help cover such costs that's great - but a roof leaker, issue with the heating system, a plumbing issue, etc. all happen over time and can costs hundreds to thousands. Ideally you have a house that was impeccably maintained, but perhaps not. Definitely review your mom's checking/saving to see what types of recurring bills she was paying.
2) Does the mortgage include an escrow for real estate taxes and homeowners insurance? Those are your other two big recurring expenses with a house. Some people have their real estate taxes bundled and paid by the mortgage lender and others pay the taxes separately and on their own. The same for homeowners insurance. If you look at the mortgage statements you should see if there is a separate escrow (account) that is used to pay those costs. If not, you could be looking at several hundred dollars more per month. You can look the house up online to see what the taxes are or look through bank info if needed.
4) Consider a house inspection if you plan to stay. Someone can come to the house and inspect all systems and parts of the house and help give you an idea if the roof has 5 more years or if there's a huge problem with foundation, etc. About $300-500 and they provide a huge write-up.
The mortgage does include escrow and as far as homeowners insurance I went ahead got that in my name. When you say real estate taxes is that the same as property taxes ( sorry if that’s a dumb a question)?
5) The challenge with staying is that if you do need a new mortgage, it may be impossible to get given your age, work history, credit history, etc. This also depends on how much the house is worth and how much the mortgage is, of course. If you had an inheritance in cash, you could pay down some of the mortgage and refinance a smaller amount but that's putting a lot of eggs in one basket...having cash available for whatever you decided to do next is key.
I’ve reached out to the mortgage which was a struggle since they wouldn’t give me any information since I wasn’t an authorized user on the account but I got that squared away by sending them my probate letter. They told me that they would give me a call back at the end of my probate.
Yes, property taxes and real estate taxes are the same thing. That's great that they are already included! Escrows are totally optional but it takes the taxes and insurance and breaks it down to a nice monthly amount. The mortgage company will actually keep track of how much those are and will adjust how much you have to pay monthly each year (or you can pay a lump sum and keep the same payment each month). In my mind it just helps smooth out the expenses and keeps me from forgetting about them.
I would really like to keep my mothers house because she’s worked so hard to get it and I guess the memories I have attached to it. If I can assume that loan or get another mortgage then I will keep it. I would like to fix that property up and make it a rental home. I live by the air force bases so I know I could find renters. I have a job that requires me to stay somewhere for a period of time (2-3 years) and move again. My company typically pays for everything so I’m not worried about incurring any crazy cost by moving around. I think I could manage my money and my home.
The house is pretty old it was built in 1978 and does have its issues. I’ve been using some of my inheritance to fix the problems but I’m really looking into so type of home warranty if there is anything out there to help me out just a bit if any of the appliances break down. I will definitely get in contact with a home inspector!
I'd say 1978 is old except that I was born in 1973, lol. Age is one thing on a house, but maintenance is another - as long as it is maintained it'll last as long as you want. A home inspection is perhaps a bit of a luxury, but for someone who is new to owning a house on and on their own, it's a great crash course. If/when you have the inspection, actually go around with them and ask them all the questions you can imagine. Is problem X a big deal? Is it expensive? What are the top 5 things to keep on top of? etc. etc.
In the meantime, pace yourself and know that you don't have to get it all figured out this week - it'll come in time. Good luck with that mortgage stuff, fingers crossed!
Renting is a good option, indeed If you are not living there you may need to change your insurance type from a homeowners to a dwelling/fire or similar policy. Your insurance broker can help out. (There's probably lots of other things related to being a landlord so keep seeking out advice from others). One thing I believe is that if the property become an income property, the income is treated in a similar fashion as your income when you go for the mortgage. So if you make $35K and the rental is $25K a year, then they consider it as $60K in income (woot!). That could really help you out. In the meantime, check your credit score and take care to keep it going up (keep your job and income and don't open your credit too much, ensure all of your bills get paid, etc.).
So the question is, do you want it? Pretty much comes down to you getting a loan for it the same way your mom did.