Good. It's bad enough they've been running their quasi-legitimate police stations. They have no business policing their citizens or former citizens.
Maybe some of these students need a crash course in basic rights and rule of law before being allowed entry in to any Western country for any reason.
Dude they harass people who are multiple generations away from being Chinese. Chinese descended families have been in the US for centuries at this point, and China somehow think they owe loyalty to the current regime. When their family left China, there was still an emporer.
I'm a Chinese American, and what always bothers me is the fact that not just the current Chinese regime, some Chinese people also hold this toxic belief that somehow Chinese descents have to be loyal to China despite their background. Even some naturalized citizens of different countries who are of Chinese origin still think they owe allegiance to China. This belief is based on ethnonationalism, of which places race and ethnicity above civic and personal values. I don't think this is an exclusive problem to Chinese diaspora, because ethnonationalism is not something that only affects the Chinese.
I don't care if someone calls me a "traitor", but I did not chose to be born into a certain ethnicity or culture background, but I can chose which country or culture I identify with. It is good to have a sense of heritage, especially in an already multicultural society, but to have the belief that you owe any type of allegiance to any country based on ethnicity and culture background alone is a concept I vehemently disagree with. If someone is an American/Australian/Canadian citizen of Chinese descent, then they are American/Australian/Canadian first, and have no obligation to the PRC.
Edit- this obviously isnt true for every culture but I think it applies to New World Chinese and Old World Chinese.
That ethnic loyalty cuts both ways. It is all in how you approach it, the children of the Old World are riddled with insecurities and roadblocks that children of the New World aren't. Just remember that, everything that they wallow in is stuff you've transcended. The Chinese children of the New World are the models for what the Old World needs, not the other way around.
Most Chinese Americans are well adjusted and happy. For those who are not, I tend to separate Chinese Americans with identity crisis into two major groups:
2) Those who genuinely believe they are somehow perpetual foreigners that are more afflicted to their ancestral land.
The first group of Chinese Americans mentioned are not really affected by the idea of being obligated to their ancestral land, and are 100% Americans by heart. They can be extremely unsatisfied with the country and critical towards it, but deep down, they just want to feel more acceptance and have more power and representation in America, and just be treated and viewed as Americans. They generally hold American values such as democracy, liberty, individualism, multiculturalism etc, basically, they are culturally American. This group consists of mostly 2nd generation+ immigrants.
The second group tends to suffer more from the psychology and poison of ethnonationalism I mentioned above; they are usually first generation immigrants or grew up in a very culturally conservative family. These people tend to identify much more with their country of origin, and in some cases not just culturally, but politically as well. Unlike the first group, the people in the second group tend to be less culturally assimilated, and care about different issues. On surface, they also complain about issues such as racism and not being able to fit in, but the specific issues they concern themselves with and particular positions they take can be very different from the first group. I know Chinese Americans who are very supportive of PRC/CCP while being very anti Taiwanese independence and Hong Kong autonomy, and they consume most of their news from Chinese sources. Their values range from skepticism to outright rejection of the civic and culture values of the US, and are much sympathetic towards the narrative and political positions of the PRC. When they decry racism and intolerance, they are mostly affected by the fact that they live in a country that doesn't fit thier worldview and value system.
The fundamental difference between the two groups is basically the first group views America from the perspective of an American, and believes they are an integral and authentic part of the country that's been overlooked, while the second group views America from the perspective of an outsider, and believe America is never truly their home.