A 504 doesn't need a medical diagnosis. (Legally) If there is not paperwork to back it up, counselors are supposed to take the parents word. At 15, you are old enough to advocate for yourself too, so talk to your school counselor and see what you can do to get accommodations. You won't get meds, but you can get extra time, distraction free areas for testing, use earbuds with white noise, seating in front of room, brakes to get water/walk/refocus. If your school says they need medical letter....they are wrong and you need to come back and ask how to handle this as you have less resources as a minor.
While this is true, the parents have the ability to revoke services. If they decide they no longer want their child receiving services the school will allow them to opt out. Parents/Students cannot be forced into IEP or 504s.
Life lesson time. Many people in your life will act against your best interests even if they're objectively not supposed to. This is especially when it's a pain in the ass for them to do so, violates their principles, or whatever arbitrary reason they see. In your case it's probably a little of all of the above. Your parents can stick to their principles all they want, but if you start to falter in school they don't have to bear the consequences long term. Your teachers/school administrators don't want to because accommodating your needs is a hassle for them. This is a squeaky wheel sort of situation. Work with your counselor and keep bugging them until you get what you need. You're fifteen and in only three short years you're going to be allowed to advocate for yourself in full capacity with or without your parents good graces. Get practiced at it now. I'm 37 and I learned that lesson way too late in life.
True. However, students CAN work with teachers and get accommodations without an official plan. This student should initiate the process, even if it results in individual accommodation in each class. The accommodations I recommended above were ones my son had prior to medication. They did help a good bit, and may allow this student enough to pass classes. In college, if that is the plan. I highly recommend doing the process for college.