David Chandler. "The Campaigns of Napoleon: History Greatest Soldiers" is almost the must-have Englidh-speaking book on the subject. The author greatly admired Napoleon for his genius, will power and work ethics and greatly critical of the mistakes that led to Napoleon downfall. My impressions on Chandler' s masterwork is that he is too enamored with the idea of the great man. Almost all Napoleon' s victories are attributed to Napoleon' s plannings and hardworks while almost all defeats are attributed to his personality flaws. While many parts of it was outdated, it was still the most comprehensive overview of the era. The book opinions of Napoleon swing between the extremes.
Many of the books that can be critical of Napoleon can be the biographies of his allies turned enemies. The biographies of Talleyrand and Bernadotte contained what they believed are wrong with Napoleon' s diplomatic strategies and other areas. There is often a contrast from biographers in portraying the beloved, scheming fatherly figure of Bernadotte against the highly-demanding, narccissist figure of Napoleon.
Napoleon must be nearly impossible to be wholly critical of (or to "hate"). I have somehow managed to not learn anything about the French Revolution and Napoleon during my school days and have very little as regards "received ideas" about him, but from where I am picking up bits and pieces these days, anyone who talks about Napoleon seems forever amazed at him. I am looking forwarding to discoveries ahead!
I think Napoleon is also somewhat unusual because he was consciosuly trying to mold his own image in a fairly modern way. Napoleon is very much building the Myth of Napoleon even when fairly young.
If you want a critical book from a person who hated him. See War and Peace by Tolstoy. Probably not the most accurate since it is fiction but the way he intrepreted Napoleon actions was a great refreshment. Suddenly, Napoleon and all the historical characters looked like average joes.
I think Napoleon got so many admirers because he is the first modern ruler of western nation that came from obscurity like most people today. Most other conquerers in Europe came from royalties or nobilities while Napoleon came from merits. He was also a history nerd, and of course, his biographers are history nerds. Being attracted to success, especially those who share similarities with your self, is a common occurences.