In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
No, I'm saying cherry picking one event and laying it all at the feet of one guy when this is a common occurrence is how you take advantage of a problem for political gain rather than fixing it.
Yep and Biden also pushed a BS strike resolution in which the very people who’s responsibility to try and keep these trains safe said they wouldn’t go back to work until things changed. Both administrations are at fault.
They are all to blame, but that doesn’t mean Pete can’t do SOMETHING in regards to this horrible disaster.
Crazy that the federal government required people to wear masks because of a virus, but a giant black plume of hazardous vinyl chloride is perfectly safe.
Obama caved to lobbyists as well by only requiring electric brakes on petroleum carrying trains. Trump just finished the job.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
But, no, let's ignore history... Pete Buttigieg or Joe Biden talking about Ohio is _the_ Most Important Thing Right Now. Also, balloons. Balloons are comin' for yer guns.
So, what's ridiculous again? I'd say, if anything, the ridiculousness is that we've _completely ignored_ everything else now y'all are hyperfocusing on one train.
Compared to a flash flood of coal ash, a chemical plant exploding and killing three, or any of the other arbitrary industrial accidents that murder US citizens? Yeah. It's pretty standard.
Because like the Obama admin, the Biden admin is relatively scandal free. That means mundane stuff will be elevated as the end of the world in order to feed the outrage.
Why? How am I insulting Ohio here? Am I saying their problems aren't serious? No, not at all. If anything, I feel I'm more respectful of the situation by not buying into this notion that a disaster is a reason to attack someone else who had nothing to do with it.