Not all archaeological sites are deeply buried. Often they're just under the surface. However, the well preserved remains tend to be deeply buried as these are less effected by the processes that disturb the soil (for example cultivation, plant roots, burrowing animals, getting churned up by freeze- thaw cycles).
- Aeolian deposition- windblown sediment is deposited on the site. Tends to be in places with light sandy / silty soils and exposure to the wind.
There are a number of processes by which sites get buried. None of them are mutually exclusive. A lot depends on the local soils, topography and environmental conditions. The main ones are:
- Volcanic ash or tephra can deposit a lot of sediment very quickly. See Pompei or many sites in Iceland.
- People. A good place to live tends to be a good place to live over time. People will knock down buildings and deposit soil to level the ground to build new buildings. This is most striking in urban sites, where you can have buildings built on top of each other over millenia. In agricultural contexts centuries of manuring and adding material to the soil can lead to significant deposition.
An important aspect to this is that these processes are often accelerated by human land use. For example, deforestation will lead to an increase in erosion and thus sediment deposition.
So I guess my follow-up question is, are these places sinking at all, or is it just deposition? To take Rome, as an example, my understanding is that Roman architecture is being found 100 feet down as they dig subway tunnels. Is the appropriate inference that Romans from 2,000 years ago were living 100 feet closer to sea level than the Romans of today?
Deposition is the most significant process, and 'sinking' isn't really something that happens at the scale of substantial structures.
Rome is a great example, in that it has a hill, Monte Testaceo roughly 35m high and 1km in circumference made entirely of discarded pottery. This gives a a good visible indication of the quantity of stuff in Rome.The quantity of material people dumped in the city was immense. This has built up the ground over time, so in places the ground is many metres higher than it would have been before the city was built. In the paper below they present some cores that show this, and how it varies spatially. Have a look at fig. 2.
I hope it's okay to ask a follow-up. I'd like to know, are there any academic meta studies which examine as it pertains to the proportion of ruins which are found burried and the relative state of preservation? None of the answers here seem to address the issue of how the burial of a civilization's remnants might be influencing the odds of those remnants remaining untouched for modern archaeologists to find. Is this a topic of much research? Have any proxy studies been attempted? I'm probably using the wrong vocabulary to query Google Scholar, hence why I'm not finding any papers on the subject. Cheers.
Marra F, Motta L, Brock AL, Macrì P, Florindo F, Sadori L, et al. (2018) Rome in its setting. Post-glacial aggradation history of the Tiber River alluvial deposits and tectonic origin of the Tiber Island. PLoS ONE 13(3): e0194838.
I'm not aware of any large scale meta- analyses of this issue. This doesn't mean they don't exist, just that my reading is very focused and pretty specialised these days.
However, there's a lot been written on bias in the archaeological record from two main angles. The first is taphonomic bias- which is that particular types of artefacts and ecofacts are more likely to be preserved, which skews the assemblages of material and thus our understanding of sites. An example of this is fish bone in Norse Greenland, where there's very little found in the middens. Whether this is because preservation conditions mean it doesn't survive, or that the processing of fish took place off site, or that there was a cultural bias against consuming fish has been the subject of much debate.
Realise this isn't so much about burial conditions as such- more about how archaeologists spend a lot of time thinking about whether absence of evidence is really evidence of absence and work hard to correct their biases.