Thank you. I understand that the company can require it if they want, but it's more that if it is a company policy rather than an IRS one, they have repeatedly lied & that's a major concern for me if a company I hold stock in is comfortable lying to me, so I'm trying to verify that.
Title: Is there an IRS policy or law that requires your signature be your full legal name rather than a nickname of it? (W-9 Form) (Federal).
It's really just prudent. If your signature is a squiggle, no one will care, it's your "mark." You can ask at /r/tax, they may know if there's a new law (but the IRS has been allowing e-signatures more lately).
For the W9 it is the IRS rule that the name on the form match the SSN. When a company gets a W9, they have to verify with the IRS, and something doesn’t match, it kicks it back with a reason and the company cannot legally pay you.
Does that go for the signature or just the name in the actual form? Cuz a lot of signatures are illegible anyway.
And yeah, in terms of time, it's not really an inconvenience. But even if the signature was "Joseph Smith", it could be argued to be a different person, lot's of people have the same first and last name & that's true in my family especially. But that'd come down to who is doing the arguing, because if I'm arguing that it's my signature on a form with my legal name & it matches my signature everywhere else and is the name I commonly use, there's not much dispute. And if I was doing the opposite, the evidence wouldn't be in my favor as I sign everything that way, partially for that reason. Anything signed with my first name is unlikely to be me - except in this case I guess.
Thanks! The company required me to submit a physical form. And sure, it certainly is prudent, but it's also prudent to have my signature consistent as well, and it's consistent on all federal documents I have as my middle name that I go by. It's less about resubmitting the form since that just takes a few minutes (plus a few weeks for snail mail & processing), and more about trying to figure out if a company I'm doing business with is lying.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.