So, tax fraud, whether run through an LLC or not, is still tax fraud. In order to have a tax deduction it must be ordinary and necessary expenses in connection with the pursuit of income. No one "makes money" by deducting legitimate business expenses.
Expenses required to run the business-office rent, supplies, employee payroll, travel between job sites, that kind of thing. Child support most certainly is not.
Then my question if it's not legal for him to write off his 40 hours a week and child support. How has he been doing it for so many years? IRS just says looks good and stamps it?
This is tax fraud? He was explaining to me everything that costs you money in life is a write off simply because you are a business owner. They want you to have as much money as you can to fuel your business.
Owning a business allows you to deduct legitimate business expenses. Things like gas, car repairs and insurance might be deductible. So, a cab driver or truck driver can deduct those expenses. A guy selling beer Koozies on E-Bay? Nope. Time? "He writes off 40 hours a week of his work into his business" Nope.
No, the IRS doesn't just say "looks good and stamps it". Your friend is taking advantage of a system that relies on Taxpayer honesty and has an enforcement department that is severely underfunded and understaffed.
Eventually your friend will be identified, audited and end up owing tax penalties and interest. Whether his activity is pursued on a criminal basis remains to be seen.
You also have to keep in mind that people will lie or stretch the truth to you to make themselves sound good, or smart, or whatever. He may not actually be writing off all of that, he may just be exaggerating to impress you.
It's just he's been doing business for 30 years. He learned everything from his father who was also a business man. Calling him a friend is a bit much.
Whenever people start making grandiose claims or what they're describing just sounds fishy, take what they're saying with a huge grain of salt.
Well the thing is he legitimately said it's legal. Told me to investigate on my own and talk to independent tax representatives. So really made me start believing in it for a second.
So your acquaintance is either exaggerating his write-offs or is due for a rude awakening. How does he make money? Does he have a job someplace or does his business actually perform some service?
He does have a working job on top of his business or really multiple working jobs. His business is a kind of service and product selling rolled in one.
He may also not be aware of what he is and is not actually writing off; he may have an accountant who's handling it for him and he's just convinced himself that he's found some Great And Wonderful Loophole.