Have you tried to find a lawyer outside legal aid? California allows lawyers to recover their fees from the landlord, if they win the tenants case. An initial consult should be fairly low cost, and will give you an idea as to the likelihood you would win a case against your landlord.
You MIGHT try going up to the next level of managment and appealing to them. But this may not do any good at all.
That is my next step. I am doing the intake process for a lawyer and giving him all of my information now. I’m also going to see if I can find a contingency lawyer as well but I know that’s going to be very difficult as well but I will try. I’m just not the type of person to allow myself to be bullied by anyone so even if I do end up having to move I want to cause an equally big nightmare and financial upheaval to them as they are trying to do with me rn. I’m thinking of also filing restraining orders against my property manager and BLR in ngeneral so they can’t speak to me or leave notices/letters anymore.
If you can cite code and statutes for what they are doing is illegal, then suing In court is the best rout to go. But its not super a easy DIY, and lawyers aren't cheap.
I have proof that what they are doing is illegal tho. And tbh I’m not in a position financially rn to just up and move due to the pandemic. I was hit hard, never received any stimulus money and struggled to get EDD to pay me anything at all. I literally went two month almost with no money. And to be honest I feel as though they are doing this because we are both black and they think I am some ignorant ghetto person and I’m not gonna have it at all. What can I do legally besides just move as that’s not really a viable option for me rn.
Even with COVID protections? Our governor extended eviction protections here in California until September 30th. Not only that but I was under the impression that my rent regardless of being on month to month could only be raised a maximum of twice a year. They raised my rent in June and July 1st I got an additional rent increase. The first increase was for 5 percent and the second was for 3 percent. That has got to be illegal. I’ve let them know I’m not paying it and will be continuing to pay the 1,116 until the DFH comes in and does their investigation in November. I also let gem know I don’t want any further communication regarding rent increases/lease violations until then. I am looking into taking out a restraining order on all of them until the case is settled in November.
I'm not super familiar with California law. If the law allows 2 raises per year, then they can raise it two times. Which it appears they have.
Election protection is just that. You can't be evicted. Doesent mean they cannot do other things like raise the rent.
You might have a case for harassment. But its a stretch. You'll have to convince the judge they weren't just doing their jobs as reps for the rental company. Thats going to be really hard.
I know it all sounds bad. But it's just a bad situation. I dont think there's much protection under the law here. You have to remember the law is intended to balance fairness between everyone. They as a rental company and you as a tenant. Finding a good balance is hard and defining what's really fair is even harder.
Also I’ve already tried to speak with upper management. They are the ones doing this so that didn’t work at all. Any attempts I have made to confront them with the evidence just gets ignored. I need a lawyer to get in all their asses and make them back off.
I seriously doubt a judge will approve a restraining order on them. Any of them. They don't seem to have been stalking, threatening, or harming you in any way.
By upper management I mean the people above your local managment group. The people you don't normally see and won't generally even have access too. The property managers boss, so to speak.
As I said before your only real recourse to force their hand at this point is to sue in court. If you're confident in your abilities, it can be a DIY thing. Iv successful sued a landlord in court before over bogus move out charges. It took me about 6 months to research the relevant local laws, and put together a case to present before the magistrate.