You should expect to have to provide some sort of documentation if you want him to accept your late assignments. While I appreciate your desire for privacy, your professor isn't unreasonable to expect more than just your word that you had a good reason.
Usually, there is a way to say you are going to be absent from class via an online portal and that will grant you leniency. Due to this class being purely online because of covid, it is not included in that, and you cannot request an excused absence from it from the school. You have to email the professor. He did not originally say he would not accept the work without documentation, but that he would like to have some. Now that the work is in, he has not graded it, and is asking again for documentation, with there being an implication that he will not grade the work until he gets it. If he does not grade those assignments, 1 of which is a large assignment, I will not be able to pass the class due.
And I mean he gave me a deadline to get the late work in by, and I met that deadline. So the original date was missed, he said to get it all in by a secondary date, which I did.
I'm not sure what you mean. You said you missed assignments, but you also got all your work in on time?
So, is he saying that he won't accept this late work now without documentation? Did your grade get lowered because it was late and now you won't pass?
What are your university's policies about late work? Are there any attendance or work policies for online courses?
The policy from the school about long term absences merely says that we have to inform our instructors, and to just make up the work.
I honestly don't have any documentation that isn't super need-to-know. Our billing is electronic. We communicate with the hospital over the phone. I genuinely don't have anything that isn't a picture of the kid in the hospital.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
At this point this may be something that you need to take up either with your department, or with the dean's office. What he's asking for isn't unreasonable, and without clearly defined makeup or absence policies this is mostly going to come down to what your school believes is a good policy.
" All students are responsible for making up the resultant missed exercises or examinations according to an appropriate schedule agreed upon with their instructors. ".