You signed a lease that said nothing about this, I assume? You have a few options here depending on what you want out of this;.
1. Keep flushing toilet paper and ignore him. This is inadvisable because on the off chance that it DOES damage a bunch of flooring, cause a flood, etc, he will probably go after you, and even though he LIKELY can't get anything from you, it will be a hassle that you don't want to deal with and waste time, $, + energy on.
Nuclear option if he ignores ALL of this and is basically a slumlord, have an attorney draft a letter saying that he needs to fix the issue immediately or let you out of the lease with a full refund, since you've basically not had a working toilet for the whole stay so far, and then if he STILL doesn't, you take him to housing court, so start recording all messages between the your landlord and you, and get him to say in writing that you are not allowed to flush toilet paper.
In New York, "Under the warranty of habitability, tenants have the right to a livable, safe and sanitary apartment," (includes working toilets).
This is the place to find the report form for New York, under the "Apartment maintenance complaint" section.
"Plumbing is a necessity, and landlords must keep the sinks, tubs and toilets in working order at all times. When a tenant is having issues using any of these facilities, the landlord commonly needs to step in and fix the issues.".
2. Tell your landlord he is in violation of NY housing law and he needs to have a plumber fix the pipe problem immediately so you can flush toilet paper, as this is not legal. Your unit MUST have a working toilet, and if he's telling you the toilet does not allow for toilet paper being flushed, then it isn't in working order. During the time this is being fixed, if you don't have a working toilet, he needs to refund you rent for each day you are without, or pay for you to stay somewhere else, but you can also contact your renters insurance (if you have any) about this if the unit is uninhabitable while they're doing repairs.
All of this, but yet again I will refer any renter with issues to call their city's code enforcement. Inspections and fines are a thing. The cherry on top is that the officers tend to find other code violations while on premises.
You mentioned you're in NJ - what county and township? Some of them have pretty old piping, including the use of lead, unfortunately. It can also be a limitation based on geography / topography, but very unlikely, that would govern the waste issue.
You will have a county water board, or something that's involved in governing utilities and piping, including waste and refuse (assuming you are not on septic). Find out if it's a known issue in the county / township, in which case the landlord would not have needed to specify that limitation (they don't have to specify common knowledge items, if they are reasonable and customary for the area - they don't have to specify "you will have hard water" for example).
Someone else mentioned about warranty of habitability, certificate of occupancy, and making sure it is a legal rental (rather than an unauthorized / illegal tenant situation).
You landlord has a legal obligation to provide you with fit and habitable premises. Part of that means having working plumbing, especially working toilets. So, you are NOT locked in for a year.
If the pipes are backed up, that's a LANDLORD problem, not your problem. Even if it is the city's sewer system, the landlord has an obligation to get the city to fix it.
Are you in NJ or NY? That will help people here tell you exactly what your rights are. You might have the right just to up and leave because he can't provide working toilets.