Let's start with a thought experiment. Imagine that the Western Roman Empire survived for another thousand years. Maybe Adrianopole went the other way; maybe one of the fifth-century emperors managed to stop the parade of civil wars that ruined the state. We might imagine all sorts of political scenarios - a strong and centralized Empire, a Roman commonwealth, etc. - but we can be sure of one thing: the Western Empire would have used Latin to the bitter end. Spoken Latin would probably still have evolved in the direction of the Romance languages; but since the imperial elite would have continued to uphold the Classical standard as the only "correct" form of Latin, the change would have been much slower. And since there would have been only a single reference point for linguistic correctness, the Romance languages themselves – in the sense of recognized and prestigious alternatives to Latin – would never have come into existence.
This scenario was played out in the Eastern Roman Empire, which of course did survive its western counterpart by nearly a thousand years. As the political and social structures that maintained a single standard of Latin fell apart in the west, the structures that upheld the unity of Greek endured. There was of course always variation in the use of Greek, and all sorts of local dialects. But there was only one standard - or rather, as we'll see, two closely allied standards - for "good" Greek, and that remained the case as long as the Eastern Empire endured.
By the first century CE, Greek was the lingua franca of the Eastern Mediterranean, spoken by cultural and political elites in a great sweeping arc from Bulgaria to Libya. It was the language of the majority only in the Greek peninsula, western Asia Minor, and a few areas of heavy colonization. Elsewhere - in Syria, in Palestine, in Egypt - it was the language of the cities that Greek colonists and Hellenistic kings had scattered along the near the coast.
The Greek language, famously, was never monolithic. In the Classical era, there were several major dialects, all mutually intelligible but markedly different in sound. Though originally regional (Doric Greek dialects were mostly spoken in the Peloponnese, Ionic in the islands of the Aegean and along the coast of Asia Minor), the dialects also became artificial literary standards, with authors using (variants of) one or another in different genres. In keeping with the economic and (especially) cultural importance of Athens, the Attic dialect became increasingly prominent, both in literature and (apparently) in common use. The vast expansion of the Greek world during the Hellenistic period and the Hellenistic canonization of Athenian literature as the golden standard of Hellenic cultural achievement cemented the ascendancy of Attic as the most prestigious form of Greek. In everyday usage, Attic became the basis of the "common" or Koine dialect, the Greek used in the teeming new cities of the Hellenistic world.
By the first century, Koine was the spoken standard across the Greek-speaking world. It had also become the accepted variety for written works with no literary pretensions - including, famously, the Christian New Testament. The standards for high-style literary composition, however, was still Attic. The Greek cultural revival known as the Second Sophistic fetishized a hyper-correct form of Classical Attic. (The second-century author Lucian has one work in which he profusely apologizes for using a non-Attic greeting when he met a friend, and another, comedic treatise in which the letter sigma sues the letter tau in court for encroaching on his syllabic territory.).
Awesome answer! I was wondering if you could elaborate on the differences between the contraction of Greek and Latin in the middle ages/late antiquity. For example, Gaul was also overun by "barbarians", yet Latin and Latin's descendents remained prominent. Why did this not happen in areas overun by the Arabs and especially areas overun by Slavic tribes?
The area in which Greek was spoken contracted rapidly in the early Middle Ages. The Islamic conquests stripped Byzantium of its eastern territories, and Arabic swiftly replaced Greek as the language of prestige and culture in Syria and Egypt. The Slavic incursions drove deep in the Balkans, driving Greek-speakers into scattered enclaves. By the time the smoke cleared in the ninth century, Greek was spoken only in parts of Sicily and southern Italy, the Greek peninsula, and Asia Minor.
The dual standard of imperial Greek - Koine in everyday use, Attic in literary contexts - survived into late antiquity and beyond. The Byzantine Empire retained, if only in Constantinople, the essentials of the Roman educational system, founded on memorization and imitation of a small canon of ancient masterpieces. Although spoken Greek drifted steadily away, shifting its sounds and simplifying its syntax, literature continued to be written in stylized Koine or the author’s best stab at Attic, and the unchallenged prestige of the ancient models prevented a rupture between literary and vernacular usage.
The Greek spoken in the smaller, medieval Eastern Empire was quite different from either Attic or Koine (by the eleventh century, in fact, it seems to have sounded much like modern Greek). But thanks to the enduring strenh - or if you like, inertia - of the ancient standard upheld by the Byzantine court and educational system, the spoken forms had no prestige. A language, famously, is a dialect with an army and a navy; and Byzantium represented the single recognized source of political and cultural authority within the Greek-speaking world.
The Greek language, in short, was saved from developing into multiple languages by the persistence of the Eastern Roman Empire and its schools, which continued to endorse ancient paradigms of “good” Greek. Thanks to the Greek Orthodox Church and Greek nationalism, this dynamic survived Byzantium itself.
Their cities were; Antioch and Alexandria, in fact, were the two largest Greek-speaking cities anywhere (with the possible exception of Seleucia in the Parthian Empire). But at the time of the Arab Conquests, despite a millennium of Hellenization, both the Syrian and the Egyptian countryside remained largely non-Greek speaking. Although Christianization seems to have helped to bring about the extinction of many non-Greek languages in rural Anatolia, it actually strenhened Syriac and Coptic, which became important vehicles for Christian literature. Arabic replaced the Greek of the cities fairly quickly, but Syriac and Coptic survived as living languages much longer.
As you note, Latin contracted almost as dramatically as Greek during the early Middle Ages. Arabic replaced Latin throughout North Africa (and made serious inroads in Spain). Germanic dialects displaced Latin in Britain and parts of Central Europe, and Slavic languages pushed Latin out of the western Balkans. What was left was the populous and prosperous core of the old Western Empire: Gaul, (parts of) Spain, Italy, and parts adjacent. Latin survived here for several reasons, but the most important was the nature of the "barbarian" conquest. The fall of the Western Empire was a gradual process, during which a Germanic elite that knew and respected many aspects of Roman civilization gradually wrested control from native Roman magnates. Most of the "barbarians" who conquered the Empire were already half-Romanized. The majority were Christians; virtually all could speak at least basic Latin. And the new elite was not only familiar with Roman culture; it actively recruited Romans. The Germans had no real written culture or tradition of literacy, and so had to rely on the old Roman elite to administer their conquests. Within a few generations, intermarriage between the Germanic and native Roman elites had created a blended ruling class that was Germanic in style but Latinate (or rather, Romantic) in language. Latin survived for a long time in both North Africa and the Balkans; but the Arabic and Slavic elites who ruled those countries were neither familiar with Roman culture nor interested in assimilating themselves to it. As a direct result, Latin became first a subaltern language, and then a dead one.
To add on to what u/chonchcreature wrote, there was a policy of Arabisation in Egypt that gradually pressed out Greek. I'm pulling the below from talking about the history and interactions between Coptic, Greek, and Arabic in Egypt.
There is a very thorough book on this subject, From Byzantine to Islamic Egypt: Religion, Identity and Politics after the Arab Conquest by Maged S. A. Mikhail, that I sourced most of this from. Unfortunately, it is a bit expensive if you don't have access to it from a university/other program.
Those are fascinating questions that I am sadly ill-qualified to answer. I can, however, refer you to this survey of Greek words in the pre-Islamic Iranian languages: