Your mom needs to talk to an attorney if she's been served. Is she paying a mortgage on the property? If so, the bank may want to help her from a group trying to lawsuit away a property they have a stake in.
I would definitely talk to a lawyer first, and then possibly your mother's city government representative, before talking to the bank, who will have their own interests ahead of your mother's.
I'm not a lawyer. There could be some legal kung fu that would see her lose the house if she's not careful. Though it's also possible a lawyer will tell you that taking a loan out for these repairs will circumvent the legal argument the original predators are bringing. It's likely your mother will need her own lawyer for at least one court date anyway.
Even if you wait till after the court date your mother could tell the court that she intends to do these repairs and contribute to the city's housing market. Keep in mind you may also need to consult an engineer. These guys will likely have their own engineer, who will act as an expert witness, based on photos taken outside of the house. Your engineer will be in a better position to talk as an expert. He will likely have a list of repairs, they likely won't be cheap. Have an itemized plan of these repairs and a timeline you see towards completing them. This shows a good faith effort to get this property into the rental pool.
Blue sky idea. Take a mortgage out on the property to perform the repairs, rent the house to pay the mortgage, let the banks cabal of lawyers fight these predators.
The physical condition of the premises is not legally considered to be an encumbrance on title/property. The appropriate avenue for redress against the property owner for it is to involve town officials, namely, the building department, and possibly the health department.
Title insurance covers issues and encumbrances that affect title or property caused by factors that were not discovered in the course of a search of land records and therefore not explicitly excluded in title insurance policy. Further, issues and encumbrances that are not recorded on the town/city/county/state land records are not legally valid or binding and therefore cannot affect title/ownership, are not covered by title insurance and there can be no liability. A suit filed for something like that would get dismissed on summary judgment.
I'm not a lawyer, but I worked as a title searcher when I was fresh out of university for 2 years. I actually miss title searching!