Superman was created by a pair of Jewish-American men who, as kids, had absorbed the news of Jews in Europe being tormented and attacked. The idea of 'passing' as non-Jewish was something familiar to Jews around the world at the time, and a good argument has been made by writers like Harry Brod that this is where the creators got the 'secret identity' bit. Brod and others make the case that Superman was conceived of as a secret Jew who cuts through bureaucracy to go out and personally protect people who are obviously suffering.
The Superman-type hero is a twentieth century invention. We find heroes with pieces of that archetype in history, literature and culture before Superman. But it wasn't exactly the same thing.
This exact archetype that you describe did not exist before comic books. But heroes did. Sir Walter Scott's 'Ivanhoe' describes a character that was held out as a model for heroism and proper behavior for American and English youth from the early nineteenth century into the early twentieth century. No special powers, though.
Odysseus might come the closest to what you describe. He didn't have super powers, but he was a hero with tremendous ability in combat who adopted an alter ego before fighting to reclaim his rightful place in his own country.
In Norse mythology, Odin had the power to throw a spear and always hit his target. And he can see into the future. Odin was known for often disguising himself as a normal human. Does that fit the archetype that you are describing? Probably not quite, but it deserves a mention.
...... I’ll just uh, see my way out. It’s a right, then to the end of the hallway and a right or a left after r/mapporn? I’m sorry I just can’t remember, these damn halls... haha am I right?
While Superman was a new twist, I’d say he wasn’t entirely unique by the time he appeared. The pulps of the 1920s were filled with esoteric powers and men capable of a variety of extra human feats. The Shadow, The Phantom, The Spider, Tarzan, and Doc Savage the Man of Bronze were all familiar and popular pulp characters. Even Sherlock Holmes has what might be considered “powers.” Doc Savage in particular is described as stronger and faster than even the world’s greatest athletes, along with multiple “powers” including super-senses and a number of mental abilities akin to a Jedi mind trick.
Odysseus was never one of the best fighters in the Iliad, if anyone can be thought to be a superhero in there, it probably is Achilles. In fact, if one looks at Greek Mythology for a superhero figure, surely Hercules is it. He performed twelve impossible tasks, killed a giant, fought Death, and even founded the Olympics. Perseus, even before that, has superhero characteristics.
Costumes, secret IDs, sigil/crests, and abilities beyond that of mortal men had all been popular motifs. Superman is credited with being the first superhero, but in 1939 nothing about him was unique. He was just the first character to bring all the classic 4-color elements into a single character.