There's always more than can be said about his specific name and family history, but I wrote an answer on the German immigrant experience in schools that gets at some of what you're asking. The full answer is but the part I think might be most relevant for your question is about the shifting nature of whiteness in America and geographical differences:
I'm also going to leave a link to a question about the "Americanization" process for immigrants, including some history about the (not exactly accurate) idea immigrants were forced to change or Americanize their name when arriving at Ellis Island or other immigration points.
I've seen you comment on a lot of random things and how you can find the basis for an answer in the history of education. Which I find cool and fascinating AF. Is there a book you would recommend to dipping ones toes into education history? I'm from Texas and I've always found it interesting the difference in education when I meet people from other states.
I likewise think education history is cool and fascinating AF! (If you're curious, I wrote an answer and used Texas as an example and . In terms of recommendations, I have a few at the bottom of you might find interesting but I'm happy to provide more if there's a specific topic you're interested in. The books that give the most comprehensive overview of American education history tend to be textbooks designed for that purpose and aren't always the most engaging of reads.
Well I didn't have anything specific in mind but after reading your other posts and thinking for a moment. I seem to remember a statement from some politician about 'states are not in the business of indoctrinating the young' as a form of pushback against state schools. Which made me remember the Texas GOP 2012 platform to remove "critical thinking" from the state curriculum as it was deemed to go against how a parent might want their child to think.
So I would be really interested in a book that covered that topic. I'd like to know more about the pushback against public education. Who were the major players, what was their philosophy on why they were against it? Are there any examples of where they succeeded and the outcome of education? And it doesn't have to be specific to Texas. But any resources on the topic would be greatly appreciated.
At the same time, it's helpful to understand that while the Founders advocated for public education for white children, there were Black educators pushing for public - i.e. taxpayer-funded - education for Black children which is why Kabria Baumgartner's, is such an essential read.
First, the work of education historian Johann Neem is really interesting as he focuses on the connection between public education and democracy. His book, is a solid overview. It also speaks to how the idea of "indoctrination" is exceptionally squishy and in the eye of the beholder.
Does it mean it was possible for German-Americans to live in and be a part of society without ever learning English, in the same way French-Canadians could in Québec?
To clarify, German language was just one of the many courses and exit exams students had the option of taking in New York State. All of the other courses and exams would have been in English (with a few, limited exceptions until the modern era when federal policy changes meant recent non-English speaking immigrant children had to take a high school math exam, which meant the state began offering the math exams in more languages.).
I could keep going but will limit myself to two more. First, is by Natalia Mehlman Petrzela which gets into modern history about "culture wars" in the classroom. Also, focuses on the impact of conservatives and conservatism. I've only read his but he's done a bunch of shorter writing that's helpful.
OK. One more. Other historians have raised concerns about his historiography but Joel Spring's is a solid overview of the impact of racism and ablism on public education.
and are two good new releases that both use the history of public education to help the reader better understand current events and efforts to dismantle public education and why so many are pushing for privatization or dismantling of public education.
I have to defer to those who study German immigration experiences but my understanding is that no, that likely wouldn't have happened in the 20th century on a large scale. I can't say for sure it wasn't possible, but I suspect the social pressure on German American young people to assimilate into English-speaking WASP culture likely overwhelmed any familial ability to maintain a German-speaking enclave. Likewise, by the 1920s, casual German language usage in public schools by German-speaking teachers with German-speaking students had pretty much died out. (There may still have been isolated instances but it was more likely to be German-speaking American students conversely informally with German-speaking American teachers.) The exception might be Amish and Mennonite communities, but again, I'll defer to historians who know their particular history.
One of the few truths about racism and xenophobia is that it doesn't make a lot of sense and the rules can change based on the whims of those making them. As an example, a 1951 sociology dissertation I came across while doing research for a question was titled, "A Study of Social Attitudes of German and American High School Students As Related to Authoritarianism" and contained a section called, "List of the Character Traits of the Authoritarian Personality and the German National Character" which ironically enough, included the line, "10. He thinks in terms of stereotypes." The term "disordered" was used to apply to basically any behavior the author wanted to. (Early texts on education would use the word "peculiar" to describe particular students or behaviors.).