In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
This was more common in the 90s and early 2000s, but the PLCAA stopped them until they found a loophole to sue due to "marketing" which will get them nowhere because unless they have proof that Daniel Defense was marketing their gun for mass shootings.
I’m curious how California’s new law allowing victims to sue gun manufacturers will play out as well.
That lawsuit and the one in the post have no legs to stand on. The only reason they happen at all is because anti gun lobbyists orgs bankroll them. Not because they are likely to prevail, but because it makes gun manufacturers spen money on lawyers.
Daniel Defense isn't going anywhere so they won't settle. And they have no actual liability so they won't be getting forced to pay anything. I suspect this story will disappear for the next 5 years until Daniel Defense counter sues to recoup legal costs after they are found not at fault and then headlines demonize them for it.
Trying to disregard the debate over the second amendment as that's a different animal. The lawsuit is suggesting:
Read the article dude. It was a 73 million Dollar SETTLEMENT from defunct Reminon. They were not awarded any damages. Your article does not dispute what I said.
Reminon didn't have to pay anything. They went out of business while the lawsuit was ongoing (for unrelated reasons) and their insurance company settled to finalize the bankruptcy.
Due to the Federal Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act, the California law basically only applies when the gun store/manufacturer have done something knowingly illegal. Which means that it is toothless.