Seriously I roll my eyes so hard got a lot of friends fighting so hard against elimination of some many mind numbing, back breaking, sanity cracking positions, that a robot would be so much better off doing. They are so stuck on well people will be out of a job, not realizing that it was going to happen at some point anyway better to start planning what comes next rather than fighting progression.
This take is assuming that those who resist are Luddites but within this we see the problem with that view. In fact, the Luddites who are portrayed as being scared of technology were not at all against the technology but rather the way in which the technology was used as a tool of class oppression. It's not the mechanization that is the problem, the problem is who benefits and who loses when the automation is introduced. Calling it "progress" is a loaded term.
Except I'm not taking the owner class. I'm looking at where technology has come from a historical perspective and where it is going. There is no freaking stopping that as hard as you try. What we can do is institute government action to help provide support systems to deal with the fall out. Did we stop the replacement of automation and the implementation of assembly manufacturing during industrial revolution? No. Did we stop small little shops prior to that time period from being eliminated because it they got efficiency out and the cost of production basically drove them out of existence, no we did not. Can we stop the elimination of positions that can be fully automated no. What we can do is provide the systems and support systems to help with that transition.
This is going to be a recipe for confrontation between increased numbers of displaced workers from all fields, and the owners of these production sites.
I completely agree that getting rid of shitty jobs is a fine idea and moreover I think that the vast majority of jobs including not just factory work but cashiers, drivers and even teachers are all doing shitty mostly useless jobs. I agree 100% that those are all shitty jobs that should be eliminated and we'd be better off with out them. However, in the process of getting from here to there there we have to begin with political reform to take the power out of the hands of the owner class, the investor class. The problem is that they would rather die than let go of their control and that means there is a need for confrontation. When you take the side of the investor class and say --"Oh well just let the owners introduce automation as they see fit" you're laying the foundation for a massive expansion of the already vast wealth divide. Doing so is taking a side in a very real class war. That's what is being discussed, not the value of a shitty job that should be automated. You can take the side of the investor class if you decide that's who you are but you should not pretend that it is something other than what it is like some sort of practical common sense view of the world. The topic of automation is the topic of class war.