Adding to this, it's equal rights regardless of how much one pays (as long as you both are on the title), i.e. simply offering more money doesn't give you greater claim over a vehicle (absent any agreement btwn you and your friend).
So yeah, OP, ask to buy her out and do a title transfer to your name only (you'll have to qualify to assume the car loan of course).
My dad will be the one taking on responsibility for the title (buying out). Again though she is very unwilling to hand over the keys. I will have my dad with me to ask for the keys. Do I have other options for taking possession of the key/car if she is unwilling to hand it over. If I can take initial possession over the car it is unlikely she will fight to get it back. Of course my dad wants to buy out the car so somehow I will need to get the title and her signature as well. I was thinking have her bring the car to my parents house along with the title. Sit her down and ask her to sign. Take the keys regardless but If she refuses to sign then court?
Please don't go about it like that. That's gonna make her more likely to reject the offer if you take the keys regardless.
If she refuses to give up the car, then your recourse is to potentially take her to court to get a partition action/force-sale on the car. Keep in mind that at this point, you're still on the car loan, so the lender could still go after you for payments.
If she does agree, there would have to be a title transfer from the both of you to your dad AND your dad would have to be able to quality to assume the loan.
If she doesn't agree to sign I could take her to court for that part but I'm not sure how things would shake out through that process. If I take the keys regardless my name will still be on the lease and I will still be responsible for payments but she will not come after the car.
Soooooooo what will you do if she refuses to hand over the keys? Will you take them from her by force? Not let her leave the house until she gives up the keys?
If she doesn't agree, then you have little recourse BUT to take her to court. And what makes you think she won't come after the car if you take the keys? She co-owns it as well since her name is also on the title.
If she refuses to hand over the keys I will put a boot on the car. And we will go to court. I know she won't come after the car due esp if I tell her I'm taking her to court because she knows she will lose. Hence why she is unwilling to hand over the keys in the first place.