I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Yeah there's the rub. Near as I can tell from a quick googlin', NYS law on this considers it illegal if the bill is in the tenant's name.
I can't vouch for the accuracy and even though it's a .gov site, it could very well be an incorrect statement of law -- but I doubt it.
I read through the NYS shared meter law and in section VII it states that if the electric is under the landlords name they cannot directly bill tenants for electric because they are not authorized by the commission?
Where there is an existing agreement in place, the other tenant would have as much of an interest in their bill not increasing as you would have in trying to get yours decreased. I'm not saying you're wrong and they're right, just that there is an agreement in place and you'd be asking to renegotiate it.
As to the issue whether this constitutes an illegal eviction, at a glance it looks like you might have a cause of action against the landlord.
It appears that a new law took effect in 2019 that extends the look-back period for retaliatory evictions to one year -- so that if you've just received notice of termination, the incident in question would have to have occurred prior to August 2020 for this to avoid inference of retaliation.
It looks (superficially at least) like you're in a position to defend against an unlawful detainer by raising retaliation as a defense. I don't know if NY imposes statutory damages on landlords who do this kind of thing, so there's always going to be a question whether its worthwhile to stay and risk an eviction if the court doesn't reach a favorable conclusion -- so you may still want to talk to a LL/T attorney in your county before pursuing this. For example, California will impose a 180-day ban on unlawful detainer filings if the eviction judge finds legit retaliation. Technically, the tenant still owes the rent, they just can't be evicted for non-payment once the 180 day ban is in effect.
Also note, it can happen that a landlord already had plans not to renew prior to the incident that triggers the retaliation claim -- if he does and can document it, that might defeat the inference of retaliation.
I had this happen to a client in California -- the tenant intentionally damaged the property and called code enforcement themselves to report the damage. They then stopped paying rent, assuming that they'd be able to raise the eventual retaliation claim . The plan failed, though, because the City was so far behind in issuing citations that the landlord didn't find out about the code violations until after she had already filed the unlawful detainer for non-payment of rent. (It wouldn't have worked any way, because in CA they can't claim retaliation if they're behind in rent -- but the typical strategy is to try to force a landlord to settle so the tenant gets a few months of free rent).