It's disputed, both on the facts and on the analysis, but there is a theory that the deciding event here was the introduction to England of the stirrup.
The dispute on the facts is about just when Stirrups came to England. We can trace the spread of stirrups in Europe more or less from Southeast to Northwest, and it was taking place in the 8th and 9th centuries exactly the time you are asking about, and of course England would be just about the last place it would reach by that progression. There is some evidence to the effect that it was earlier in this period some competing evidence to the effect that it was later, but just about everyone agrees the technology had not been widely adopted for use in mounted combat in England by the late 800s.
The dispute on the analysis is not really specific to England but it concerns just how good or bad heavy cavalry would be if they did not have any stirrups. Could you have a heavily-armored mounted Warrior if he didn't have anywhere to put his feet? After all, Parthian Cataphracts start showing up in the record around 300 BC, without a single stirrup among them, and they were a highly effective military force for a long time (for what it's worth, they did sort of tie themselves into the saddle with leather clamps to prevent themselves falling off while fighting).
But without trying to be definitive, it is perfectly possible that even if a well-to-do fighter who could afford a horse had seen or heard of stirrups, and even if he thought they were just dandy for riding around between towns or battles, he might not trust them for serious combat work if all his experience involved standing on the ground to fight.
D. A. Bullough, English Historical Review (1970) and Bernard S. Bachrach, "Charles Martel, Mounted Shock Combat, the Stirrup, and Feudalism" in Studies in Medieval and Renaissance History (1970).
On the advent of stirrups in Britain: Seaby, Wilfred A. and Woodfield, Paul (1980). "Viking Stirrups from England and their Background". Medieval Archeology, Volume 24: 90.
Medieval Technology and Social Change, Author Lynn Townsend White, Publisher, Oxford University Press, 1964, ISBN 0195002660, 9780195002669.
Just spotted this on the Sunday Digest, and for the benefit of anyone also tracking in from the Digest, I'm afraid that I must most firmly disagree here on the importance of the stirrup. White's stirrup theory has been dead since the '70s, and has been disproven not just academically, but practically as well, because White was not a horseman of any sort.
u/PM_ME_UR_SADDLEBREDS has , and for further practical demonstrations, I also commend to the readers' attention and . The various items of horse tack certainly help in making a mounted combatant more effective, but none of them are by any means necessary. As both Alvarez and the paper observe, you can very effectively deliver a couched lance strike bareback.
To the extent that White posited that the stirrup was the determining factor in the rise of the entire system of feudalism, I agree with you he's been most thoroughly debunked. This question is strictly about the combat applications, and as you and everything you've cite concedes, while stirrups do not make mounted shock combat possible, they still definitely make it better. Or in other words, anyone sensible who could choose to fight on horseback either with stirrups or without them would choose to fight with them.
It's perfectly reasonable to infer from this that the various iterations of the Persian Empire that used cataphracts had a recurring problem with seeing them flop off their horses while making the strenuous motions involved in mounted combat, and for this reason were willing to effectively tie the rider to the horse, despite the not inconsiderable risk that if the horse itself were injured or killed, it would roll over and squish the immobilized rider flat.
The cataphracts, which are routinely mentioned as evidence for your argument, are actually an excellent case in point; although they were a highly effective military force for a long time, during a lot of that time they were tinkering with various incremental alterations to saddles and tack that made it more difficult for the rider to fall, or to be unseated, culminating in the Sassanid period with "four-horned" saddles that incorporated leather straps or clamps that passed over the rider's legs.
A far more likely explanation is the intertwined factors of culture and combat doctrine, and I'm far more inclined to go with your original post's final paragraph. To paraphrase John Lynn, technology does not dictate the way of war, but provides a menu of options, and it is culture than then influences what the combatant is likely to pick from the menu. We've enough examples of culture dictating methods of warfare great and small that I'd look to Anglo-Saxon or Viking cultural mores to explain their relative preference for footslogging over any technological development at all.
White obviously went way too far in his numerous leaps of logic about the social and economic consequences of stirrups, but one can also go too far in debunking him. The stirrup represented a meaningful, though not revolutionary, increase in the general effectiveness of heavily armored mounted warriors, and could well have been a factor in the adoption of shock cavalry as the arm of decision in English or Western European warfare, or its absence a factor in non-adoption until it was available.
It's also worth noting that in the 890s, a Danish force which invaded England did so via France, where it purportedly defeated a Frankish army and 'became a mounted force'. However, that force was still defeated by Alfred's army outside Rochester.
/u/Silas_of_the_Lambs has already mentioned the importance of the stirrup so I wanted to chime in about the importance of the shield wall. The late-C9th fyrd wasn't just a bunch of farmers handed a sharp stick and pointed at the nearest Dane, it was a (usually) well-disciplined fighting force drawn from myriad small warbands. The Fyrd faced heavy cavalry on a number of occasions and, well, it won. After all, the strenh of medieval heavy cavalry isn't in its charge - although that is undoubtedly useful - but in its tactical and strategic flexibility. You can see the utility of heavy cavalry in two battles: Lechfeld in 954 and Alnwick in 1174. At Lechfeld, the newly-established milites of Otto I turned the tide against the Magyars as their speed and manoeuvring disrupted their light cavalry skirmish tactics and forced them into a battle for which they were under equipped. At Alnwick in 1174, the strategic flexibility of English heavy cavalry allowed for the garrisons of Newcastle, Prudhoe and other castles to rapidly combine and achieve local numerical superiority over part of the Scottish army laying siege to Alnwick, capturing William the Lion before his army could effectively respond.