You need an attorney. This is not a fix it ticket by any means; it is a criminal charge for possession in a motor vehicle without being in the proper container. Showing the court you have a container you could have but didn't use it is like showing the court you can drive under the speed limit to defend having driven faster than it.
I see your point on it being needed like alcohol laws but in my opinion it does not compare to alcohol at all. People take controlled substances all the time usually pain medication and drive you've probably done it yourself. Either way I see the need for the law but I think the fact of it being more than a fine is ridiculous. If you cant smoke in your apartment. Or in public where are you supposed to do it at 💀. But yes thank you for the advice I'll be very goody goody for the judge.
This goes way beyond something we will be very much more helpful than that. Any defense you have will be a function of the sum of the facts involved, and requires assessing them in far more depth when it is possible to do here.
Dude, it is as dangerous to drive if you've had alcohol, or weed, or benadryl, or heroin, or 2 hours sleep in the last 24, or coke, or nausea drugs. It is either "as safe as it takes for nobody to get killed if everyone closed the rules" or "is not safe." It isn't a more serious/less serious thing here, it isn't a relative sliding scale.
Worse, though, that's not your point. You said it's not the same as alcohol because people take opiates and drive (and for some ghastly reason assume I'm someone who'd do that.).
It's not illegal to smoke in an apartment. You live in a non-smoking apartment. That's different. It isn't illegal to own a dog, but lots of apartments do not allow them. If you want to enjoy recreational THC at all, you just have to follow very extremely reasonable laws. The law isn't prohibiting you from smoking in private residences. Your choice of residences is prohibiting you from smoking at your residence.
This is like saying stabbing someone to death isn't as serious as shooting someone because it is also possible to use poison.
You excused one unsafe action as being not serious because another unsafe action that is entirely orthogonal to the one you're defending as less serious exists.
Before you get upset with me: I am a housing attorney who represents low income tenants and have done some estimate of a billion lifetimes of fucktons of economic research associated with privileges and option denied people who live in rented dwellings and income inequality, so I am on your side with it being horribly inconvenient. I am not on your side of blaming the law. It's not different than any other disadvantage we are born into. Like I'll never have the laws that protect private airline pilots from losing their jobs over some oddly specific callout reasons impair me because I am not wealthy enough to own a private jet.
First, absolutely nothing whatsoever about people driving under the influence of any intoxicant can factually be classified as "not dead serious" to the extent that I am a bit amazed that I feel a need to point it out at all.
Turns out, society doesn't want people driving around stoned and killing people. So we drew the line there. You're welcome to run for assembly or become a lobbyist if you want to try to move that particualar goalpost.
Second, the control is in place in the same way open container laws for alcohol are in place. If it's easily accessed by the driver, it is what the law consideres closer than the good of society should tolerate. Remember, society as a whole IS who writes the laws that say this. It isn't, like, an opinion, man. It isn't dirty politicians or overjealous police. It's how society shapes over generations.
More on society: it turns out that these controls are super awesome and great for the entire pot industry as a matter of economics. It's pretty goddammed reasonable to give in on "okay, we will let you include a rule that we have to put it in a bag" when the other side is conceding "fuck you and we will spend all our money lobbying against legalization instead." So, this means it's also a really small price to pay to penalize a few people who are unwilling to toe a line at all just for finding it pointless, the rest of everyone who may enjoy the fruits of the legal cannabis industry finds a microscopic concession. So, they're not going to rise up in arms for your defense.
But I get how you see it. I'm just concerned you're still too focused on the narrow of "but I don't want this ticket or cost a lot of money," and not "society should take whatever steps are necessary to prevent people from being killed by impaired drivers.".
I didn't tell you do act goody goody. I said to take it seriously and respect it and the reason for law. Those are way different.
Anyway, please stop looking at this as "not even that serious." It is that serious. I will tell you why it is. I will even give you a few reasons it is.
May I give you a second bit of advice? I'm not scolding you here; I know you are very young and understand your perspective. It's mine, as an attorney who is fort-hmmppphhhffffff years old hey shush; you don't ask ladies our age!
Your attorney will wait to roll her eyes until after you leave the room or look away. The Judge will not, but he also will be too busy straining to hear another word you say over the sound of the black hole that formed by the instantaneous implosion of every particle that constituted "respect for you" or "impressed by you." So there's that, too.