In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
But when it comes to assessing whether human-caused carbon emissions are warming the planet, Kemp disclaims any expertise. He reminds me that he is not a scientist, retreating to generalities.".
"Brian Kemp, the Republican governor of Georgia, says he does not think a lot about climate change. He cares about environmental stewardship, he explains, in the way hunters and farmers do. He has noticed, too, that Georgia’s coastal roads are flooding more these days.
If that's the messaging it takes to get the piece of shit flat earth idiots on board with fixing the fucking planet, sure.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Can you believe this level of self denial or worse deceit. The ideology is so deep that even with clear evidence of climate change he has to call his concern "environmental stewardship" and dance a complicated dance to avoid admitting its worse. This is because it is starting to impact him, but he can't admit being wrong. Imagine it took republicans 40 years to accept environmental conservation and only because it is impacts them directly.
“Look, I think man causes all kinds of problems every single day, whether it’s violent criminals — I’m sure there’s effects on the environment from people that do things the right way and people that don’t.”.
For most of Georgia it's probably the fact that very dry earth doesn't absorb water well, so a heavy rain is more likely to cause flooding if it happens during a drought.
As for urban flooding, I couldn't remember where I heard about the paving effect, but I found this article.
That "i am not a scientist" thing is a canard. It allows them to play "just some plain ol' country guy" and "I can't understand this new fangled scientificy stuff" denial. He isn't dumb. He is University of Georgia grad and a businessman. He total understands all of this stuff. He is making a veiled excuse for not understanding so he can continue to BS everyone.