"The Russian side will spare no effort to counteract, together with China, unipolar hegemony, to defend a world order based on international law and the United Nations Charter.".
Right, America's Hegemony in Putin's syphilitic framing. America and Europe are so prosperous because we operate fairly, foster strong economic ties, allow dissent, crack down on corruption, and have a million other things like a free press and independent judiciary authoritarian regimes can't stomach. Putin mistakes the west's soft power for hard power, and tries to tell himself with just enough tanks and enough rapists he can force his neighbors to love him and form a new "power pole" to counter the wests. Incidentally, Putin is a known aficionado of a passtime where he would get kicked in the head. Not sure why I mentioned, that.
US isn't the world. Plenty of democracies have chosen liberty, freedom of association, free media, separation of state and religion, democracy and rule of law, transparency of governance, transparent voting, human rights. This is not a US hegemony. Russia and China are frustrated, autocratic, one part, corrupt dictatorships that have more issues with containing and oppressing their citizens as opposed to any outside threats. Their world order would be a disaster.
Shitty headline, that's Russia's characterization and fantasy they're trying to peddle to the world, not China's. China may quietly resent "America's hegemony" but they sure as fuck don't see lowly Russia as their partner to create a Russia-Chinese secondary power center.
Calling it a hegemony just gives their criticism validity. Since when is democracy and equality a uniquely American concept? Just because the US has the largest army doesn’t mean that the rest of the democratic world is somehow dominated, if we don’t like what the US is selling we can always opt out and often do. Usually it’s the US that we need to pull in with us when it comes to societal progress like e.g. climate change, does that make the EU a climate hegemony?