First, your question contains some incorrect premises. The Romans didn't abandon swords in the late era, and the Romans didn't abandon the spear during the earlier era (late Republic and early principate) either. The Romans have used some combination of sword and spear throughout both the Republican and Imperial times.
The Romans during the late era were equipped with longer swords called spathas (which are harder to make than shorter swords), and soldiers who were equipped with spears were also often equipped with swords (similar to Republican era Triarii and earlier Principes). There were also soldiers who were equipped with swords and javelins or smaller war darts during the late empire.
"They were all heavy armed troops and had helmets, cuirasses, greaves, and shields. Their offensive weapons were large swords, called spathae, and smaller ones called semispathae together with five loaded javelins in the concavity of the shield, which they threw at the first charge. They had likewise two other javelins, the largest of which was composed of a staff five feet and a half long and a triangular head of iron nine inches long.".
The Romans commonly used spears. Their army were classical phalanx hoplites with long thrusting spears before their manipular reforms. After their reforms that divided troops into maniples (and groups such as velites, hastati, principes, and triarii), spears were still retained as heavy thrusting spears or as multipurpose throwing spears. Polybius describes hastati as equipped with two pilums (which were long throwing spears that were 7 feet long and could double as a thrusting spear). Polybius also describes hastae (long thrusting spears) being used by triarii and principes as their primary weapons:
Even the Hastati were sometimes equipped with thrusting spears in battle. "The Tribunes accordingly gave out the spears of the Triarii, who are the last of the three ranks, to the first ranks, or Hastati: and ordering the men to use their swords only, after their spears were done with, they charged the Celts full in front. When the Celts had rendered their swords useless by the first blows delivered on the spears, the Romans close with them, and rendered them quite helpless, by preventing them from raising their hands to strike with their swords, which is their peculiar and only stroke, because their blade has no point.".
Plutarch in Life of Antony 45 talks about Mark Antony's legions using their pila to thrust at Parthians in melee. In this incidence, pilas would be of primary importance and much more useful in melee than their shorter swords:
"The common soldiers wear in addition a breastplate of brass a span square, which they place in front of the heart and call the heart-protector (pectorale), this completing their accoutrements; but those who are rated above ten thousand drachmas wear instead of this a coat of chain-mail (lorica). The principes and triarii are armed in the same manner except that instead of the pila the triarii carry long spears (hastae).".
So to address you question about why lorica segmentata was abandoned - we really don't know for sure.
See Caear's writings about Alesia where he had his troops first use pilums as spears/pikes before switching to swords. "omissis pilis gladiis rem gerunt" (with their javelins set down they pressed the attack with their swords).
During the late Republic, the reforms around the time of Marius that equipped most legionaires with pilum and gladius simply resulted in troops switching from a more dedicated thrusting spear to a more multi-purpose throwing spear that could also be used to thrust.
Plutarch also describes Caesar's men at Pharsalus jabbing upwards at the faces of Pompey's cavalry with their javelins.
So really, the Romans just used a combination of different types of spears alongside swords. They went from dedicated thrusting spears (which can still be thrown) to a combination of thrusting and various types of multipurpose throwing+thrusting spears (eg. pilum and heavy pilum). They later favored longer and heavier spears...which some speculate was in response to fighting enemies with more cavalry (such as the Parthians and Sassanids).
Second, chainmail (lorica hamata) was a very popular form of metal armor and had been used since the Roman Republican times as early as the 5th century BC. The use of lorica segmentata (segmented banded plates) is often exaggerated by both modern pop-history culture and by ancient Roman propaganda pieces such as Trajan's Column. Trajan's Column in Rome portrays legionaires uniformly wearing segmentata and wielding tiny undersized scutums for propaganda purposes. The Adamclisi Tropaeum, another Trajan monument that was constructed in Dacia, portrays Roman legionaires wearing hamata (chainmail) and squamata (scale), use proper sized scutums, and wield a variety of different weapons.
"...perhaps the carved metopae of the Adamclisi moument preserve a certain rigidity, undoubtedly linked to the lack of expertise of the sculptors; they are, though, not idealized, and so provide useful records of the 'uniforms' that are not visible on the [Trajan's] column".
Some historians also believe that lorica segmentata wasn't that great of an armor compared to other forms of armor because Trajan (during Rome's height in the early 2nd century AD) had to reequip his troops from lorica segmentata to lorica hamata and squamata: "the falx forced the Romans to make various changes to their military equipment. They introduced a previously unused piece of armor, the manica, they returned to modified forms of the older lorica hmata and lorica squamata armours especially for this campaign..." Michael Schmitz The Dacian threat, 101-106 AD p. 28.
Just because lorica segmentata had banded plates and looked like shiny parade armor, does not necessarily make them better than the tried and true riveted chainmail hamata and/or scale squamata that had been used by the Romans for centuries. Segmentata were composed of bands of iron plate (with the surface sometimes heat treated to mild steel), so they were not really the same as later late medieval European metal cuirass armor.
From what I have read, historians are not entirely certain why the segmentata was abandoned. I've read hypothesis such as the lorica segmentata was hard to maintain, hard to repair, uncomfortable for long marches, hard to put on/take off, had to be tailored for the wearer, etc compared to other forms of armor. (during the lorica segmentata's use, even when the rank and file wore segmentata, centurions often did not wear segmentata and opted for mail or scale instead). Mail also provided more protection in terms of coverage (armpits, groin, upper thighs, etc) whereas segmentata stopped above the waist. The carvings on the Adamclisi monument shows chainmail extending down to protect a significant part of the thighs. The weight of mail was also supposedly easier to distribute across the waist with a belt rather than being primarily on the shoulders, and mail and scale both allowed the wearer more flexibility/range of movement compared to segmentata.
I've also read that some historians believe that segmentata was actually made in local provinces and by local smiths...so they could be more tailor-made for the soldier when production was decentralized. So when the Roman empire switched to centralized equipment production, they switched to mail and scale which could be manufactured in a set of standardized sizes and tailored/fitted more easily compared to segmentata.
Do we have a rough estimate of how many percentage of legionaries would actually wear the Segmentata armor? Or was it mostly restricted to elite units?
Maybe to show off their lorica segmentatas. If you look at the Adamclisi Tropaeum carvings, the larger, correctly proportioned depictions of the shield covers up much of the legionaire's body and armor. The undersized scutums on Dacian's Column in Rome allows you to see much more of the person's body and armor.