This is likely something that has to get fixed with all of the credit reporting agencies. The SSA has the correct info. Presumably the death certificate was correct and had correct ssn for your brother as well.
You need to convince as many of these data companies that there are actually two of you. I don't know how you do that, but contacting an consumer rights attorney that specializes in FCRA might be worth at least a consult.
What happens is that these major data aggregator companies (credit bureaus and reporting systems) will see two files where 95%+ of the info matches and the computer will assume that these two people are actually the same person. It will their files together as one.
So depending on the company, OP may be able to contact the data company directly and file a dispute. I had an incident when I was shopping for auto insurance where the company was asking for information for an accident involved on my record that I was not involved in and had no knowledge of. I found out that they were using my record from Lexis Nexis, which is one of the data companies. As a consumer, I could request my own report from Lexis Nexis and found out that the accident was involving someone who I lived with. I ended up being able to resolve it with the insurance company, but there was a way for me as the consumer to dispute info in my Lexis Nexis report.
Believe it or not, this is one issue your Congressperson's office may be beautifully equipped to handle. They tend to be very familiar with administrative and bureaucratic issues, and helping out their constituents goes hand-in-hand with putting in the right word with a government agency.
Get in contact with your Congressional representative (House or Senate) and explain your situation. Include any documentation you can about the "this is associated with someone dead" notice from the free credit check site or background stuff. This can help expedite the issue.
Yes - try pulling your credit report OP. It should list any aliases and addresses that it considers as known for your account. It may be that some of your sibling's information is showing up as your, and you can dispute that.