For starters, contact the company that did the relocation and get a quote. Companies that contract with a relocation company generally get negotiated rates that are better than their retail rates. If your retail quote is less than the rate they say you owe, make them provide invoices from the relocation company for your move.
If the relocation company's retail quote to you matches the company's, you're stuck with them being terrible at sourcing relocation services.
In my experience if you don't repay what they ultimately determine to be your relocation package, they can send you to collections, or they may instead report the amount of the written off debt as income to you, and you would then owe taxes on that amount. Since you signed a contract you are bound by the terms of the contract, so your best bet is to negotiate.
EDIT: they are also rushing me to pay ASAP which is fishy. I finish up next Monday and I'm being offered slight reductions here and there if i pay up now.
Have you tried contesting the charges with the HR department? Typically HR pays for your relo (with invoices) and HR would be the ones to bill you back, not a third party company. Were you given a receipt for the items moved by the relo company showing there were just 3 bags? (why didn't you just move them yourself?) Do you have documentation of how long you were in the relo apartment? Were you given a bonus for relo and is that what they're trying to recoup?
HR are actually on my side as this episode has brought these enormous bills to their attention. They relocate a lot of people so I think they are now worried they've been massively overpaying for some time now.
I would write a clear letter to HR asking them to verify the amount and include any supporting documentation and your notes on the timeline. Ask for proof of the debt, including any invoices they have paid.
Paying before your final day doesn't gain you anything but goodwill. It saves them from the black eye of losing someone they recruited with a relo package, which is costly to the company.
HR offered a reduction but its not enough. They're also clambering to get me to pay before my final day (Monday) so maybe they're worried about something that I am not aware of.
Tell them what you think is fair and offer to pay before your final day if they accept that amount and provide you with a statement that you've paid in full and owe no monies to the company effective X date.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.