The typical response you’ll get is that medical malpractice is far too nuanced to address on a forum like this.
From the post, there are too many gaps even if we could address it. For starters, I don’t even see clarification of if you went to a hospital vs just showing up at a PCP or when you sought treatment.
Finally, to say everyone gets full body xrays and CT scans when they are conscious enough to express injury locations and mechanisms is patently false.
If you believe that the medical care you received was insufficient and led to a further issue, that would be medical malpractice. You’d want to consult with a medical malpractice attorney, explain your situation in full, and they could tell you more if you have a case at all. The state bar association can find you the appropriate attorney. The process is outlined.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
This is all new to me, i have no idea what i should include or what i shouldn’t. i don’t know where to go but i am so angry that this was even done. whatever questions you have about the entire thing i will answer.
I definitely have increased pain. I never stopped feeling pain, especially in the last two days, it felt like I fell all over again. I walked outta work and my shift was almost over, I cried on my way to the hospital today, i cried getting checked in as well. mentally, this struggle has been so hard to go from a normal body to now I can’t even mop floors or sweep because if I do, it gets set off and I can barely walk. I have broken down crying on the clock several times. And I have finally taken a major pain medication and i’m on it right now plus a shot they gave me in my hip, it still hurts. This is why I want something done. Not only did she miss it, I have had to suffer not only physically but mentally because of what she simply assumed wasn’t wrong.
The negligence didn’t necessarily lead to the injury, I got the injury the moment I fell and the doctor I saw today explained exactly how it got fractured And it was more than insufficient because when I wrote the initial post, I didn’t know it was fractured. I knew something was wrong but because she sent me home with 2 bandaids, I didn’t think that my bones were injured. And doing research on fractures, they are bad and should be treated immediately. I don’t know what was in this doctors mind to look at me hysterically crying with blood all down my back and i couldn’t really move, i was definitely in shock and the doctor today told me that the pain that I kept identifying to them WAS the fracture itself. Even though it’s not mandatory to get an x-ray, because of how the accident happened, and how I pointed in the direction of exactly where the fracture was from the very beginning, she should have. When you consider that my back was so bloody and the way it looked, you would think the least she would do is check JUST IN CASE. But no. Lol. I didn’t even get medication.
Correct, but just missing an injury alone isn’t grounds for compensation for medical malpractice. Missing it has to cause you further harm, be it long-term, health-wise or increased pain, etc. Those are all things a malpractice attorney would dig into and discuss with you to see if there is actually any claim to be made.
Title: How do I legally deal with not being treated after falling and getting a fracture on my back?