> More than half the respondents to the American organisation’s survey did not know six million Jews were murdered and 29% believe the death toll was below two million.
If you look through the results breakdown, it does kind of seem like people got hung up on not knowing the right number. We also don’t know if folks were confused about factoring in all the other groups that died.
I’m not trying to be pessimistic, but that number isn’t that surprising. Even immediately post-WWII 25% of Germans still supported the Nazis. There’s a theory that around 17% of any population is going to be maladjusted trash or gullible trash.
That number blew up to 30%-48% for me in the last 7 years. There are way too many opportunities for people to rethink their positions when confronted with terrible ones, and yet they plug along anyway. This includes people I find intelligent and thoughtful.
It seems humans are able to throw their lives away, and certainly the lives of other people they don’t care about, all in the name of tribalism.
Well, part of it is that we currently have sophisticated propaganda and misinfo networks designed to hook people and keep them. It’s not like these folks stumbled onto an idea and then that’s the end, right? They have a chorus of grifters and monsters happy to validate their worst ideas for profit. They then prey on the very human biases we all fall prey to sometimes because they helped us as a species survive to where we are now.
They presented people with two extremes with specific numbers and a middle guess. If people aren’t sure, they’ll tend to guess in the middle. Survey design is trickier than it looks.
Anything involving numbers is challenging for lots of people. “A massive number of Jews and other minorities were deliberately slaughtered as part of an attempt to destroy them” would work better than a specific number.
There’s a big difference between publicly stating “the Holocaust was exaggerated” and answering in a survey “I think the Holocaust deaths must have been lower”.
I would consider it a conspiracy theory if people were stating with confidence that the deaths were lower. But here it just seems like a lot of the people just haven’t been educated well enough on it. Read what the article says too.
I agree. I’m not sure that this survey was designed very well in that regard. Also, they appear to have relied on landlines and online polling to reach people under 40. Both of these methods have some serious issues.