Necessity, as they say, is the mother of invention. Simply put, the Qing did not expect to fight a war with a Western power, and so accordingly did not place significant stock in purchasing arms of equivalent quality. As I note in on Qing armies on the Qing fleets, when armed encounters with foreign militaries became more expected, the Qing did quite rapidly seek to increase their use of foreign equipment.
When did the Qing first recognize Western superiority in certain areas of arms manufacturing? Did Macartney include weapons in the selection of British goods that he took to the Qing court?
He did, yes – the two howitzers he presented to the Qianlong Emperor were still there, kept in storage, when the Anglo-French expedition sacked the Summer Palace in 1860. A recognition that there was a certain superiority to Western armaments had taken place since at least the 1770s, when Qing forces reported back on the effectiveness of flintlock muskets used by the Burmese during the disastrous invasions of Southeast Asia which the Qing attempted; while in the 1830s a number of Chinese scholars in Guangdong, such as Xu Naiji, reported on the significantly superior capabilities of British ships. But it seems as though, with the Burmese crisis resolving with the resumption of normal diplomatic relations, and the Qing-British relationship having been an ultimately peaceful, if occasionally tense one, that there simply was no perception of necessity at work.
Speaking of the Qing, I enjoyed Treason by the Book btw- it was eerily fascinating to peer into the mind of the Yongzheng Emperor, so thank you for that recommendation as well.
At the risk of going off topic (but now you're here), in Treason by the Book Spence mentions the notations that the Emperor would write on reports from the provinces, in the unique vermilion ink. Do we have the surviving original calligraphy of the Emperor, or do only copies survive?
I don't know how true this is for most dynasties, but for the Qing these certainly do survive in great quantities. held at the Palace Museum in Taipei.