Only advice you are going to get here is that you need a real, live criminal defense attorney and not reddit for this one. Is tomorrow your arraignment or your trial?
Trial. I've been homeless for a few months and just got a place of my own... unfortunately that means I lost most of things for one reason or another. I haven't been able to figure out who my public defender is, and at this point, its a little late. Speaking of which, is there a maneuver to delay trial?
Which would be the other charge, no? Using said card is the actual stealing part.. i.e., I didn't break into her home to get it, it was just there. I feel you though. Despite what you and other's may get the impression that I'm a petty criminal, this was my first & only time using someone else's card who wasn't a family member or close friend. I'm not actively thieving.
According to them, I "stole" said credit card, but I did no such thing. Despite my criminality in the matter, I even made sure her ID, SSN, etc. was safely with the USPS... So it feels like a misnomer to me to say I stole it. Sorry, "obtained.".
Yes. It is called a continuance. And while it is more than a little late it is not too late for you to figure out who your assigned PD is and see if they can request one.
Thanks for finding the specific law! It's a long story, but I haven't been able to until very recently. Finding my PD is proving super difficult with the courts closed on the weekend.
You need to stop rationalizing your thievery if there’s any chance of less than a full conviction and serious sentence here.
The statute, while titled "Credit card theft", does not require you to actually steal anything. All that is required is that you knew it was lost and you used it. Quit arguing your innocence here and find your attorney.
That the purse was sitting at the bus stop when you found it does absolutely not mean you didn’t steal the credit card. When you reached into the purse not your and rifled the contents of the wallet not your, you stole. Unquestionably.