Billing the room number with a card on file is common for people who don't pay the bills associated with that room number. It's the same as if they found out you did something that occurred an additional fee after you left. You agreed to let them do this by placing your card on file with them.
I never would have left without paying a bill intentionally, but I was baffled MY account was charged when the card they had for the tab was my husband’s name. Our room number was never associated the tab opened and my husband’s name was no where on the reservation. The front desk never saw us together as we arrived at different times. We were at the pool together, but bar staff never saw that. I have a very common last name so I think it was a bold assumption to re open my room and charge it. I just don’t understand how that is legal.
I guess I just don’t understand why they would just assume to charge my card when there was zero ties between the two of us at the hotel. I guess that is incorrect for me to think that way....they called me to tell me the card just so happened to have appeared and didn’t think to mention the charge at all. I gladly would have paid it and would have been fine with them telling me when they called. I payed a pretty penny to stay there and I tipped very well the whole time. I was just taken back by them checking me back in and reopening to my room to a new room. The front desk of the hotel claims they have no idea how it happened bc they are not affiliated with the restaurant at all....
Look, you can act like it some magical mystery as to how this happened but it's not. You two stayed in the same room. The hotel literally makes their money knowing who is in what room so they can get paid. They did that and accurately charged you.
I wasn’t mad on the phone. All I said to her on the phone was that I was so glad they found the card. I went up there to speak to them and that’s when they told me it was billed to room 155 because I changed rooms. I explained I didn’t change rooms and they said they had no idea what happened and they had zero ties to the restaurant. Please don’t assume I was angry. I am actually a very nice person.
You may be a very pleasant person. It doesn't mean people want to engage you in a situation where you're complaining. I mean I've literally spent however long now telling you over and over again that what was done is legal but you seem to keep coming up with more and more things that don't make any difference in the fact that it's still legal. I can understand the want to disengage from a conversation.
If I were the manager and you called me mad about something you know we regularly do, I'd probably tell you I had no idea how it happened too to get you off the phone.
And I didn’t know this was a regular practice for them to assume someone is staying with someone and to charge their room. Learn something new everyday.