Your landlord has no control over whether you file a claim with your insurance or not. That's between you and your insurance company.
You have no control over whether your landlord pursues you themselves, or files with their insurance. That's between them and their insurance company. With a claim like this, it also makes relatively little difference, as the insurer is fairly likely to pay out, subrogate, and pursue you on behalf of the landlord.
If your policy, for some reason, doesn't include damage to your own unit, then you might find that you're about to eat some of the cost of the repairs. Given the amount, I would talk to a lawyer before responding to either your insurance or your landlord, as a policy like that is unusual, but it's not impossible that you've purchased a policy that left you exposed to this risk.
He would owe his insurance their money back if he did that, and if he doesn't inform them and tries to pocket it, there's some chance he'd go to prison for fraud.
Quick question - Is it my landlord’s duty to ensure that I buy a policy that covers internal damages when there is a water leak? The reason I ask is - as per my lease, I am required to have an active insurance policy that covers 100K in personal liability. The lease/ the landlord did not specifically mention that I must only purchase a specific policy that covered the internal repairs to the unit during water damage.
I have seen landlords demanding their renters to purchase a specific policy from a specific company. I provided my policy details to them when I signed the lease, they had no qualms about anything.
Beyond that, though: the presence or absence of insurance has absolutely no effect on liability. It only affects how that liability gets settled. Your landlord's decision to accept your policy as-is does not excuse you, personally, from liability for damage to the unit beyond normal wear and tear. It only means that that liability, apparently, will be settled out of _your_ assets, if it's not covered by the policy you bought.
I don’t understand how they can dictate us to buy a policy that covers 100k in liability without specifying additional details regarding the actual coverage. Given that they can submit a claim anytime, won’t they have to make sure that their tenants have the right policy per their needs?
If that's all the lease requires, and that's covered by your policy, then you performed the terms of the lease and cannot be evicted. That's separate from your liability for damage, though - it's up to _you_ to ensure your insurance, if any, meets _your_ needs.
Your landlords can only submit claims to your insurance if you added them as additional insured parties. Otherwise, they have to go through you. It changes nothing, though: meeting the requirements of your lease does not affect your actual liability, if any.
The reason I suggested that you speak to an insurance lawyer is that a policy covering the cost of damage to other units but not the cost of damage to your own is _passing_ weird, to the point that I suspect your adjuster is not being honest with you.
The weirder part is - I spoke to other insurance companies. I asked them if they had any policies that would cover the internal structure of the unit when there is a water damage claim where I am liable. They said that in that scenario, the landlord insurance would cover the damages to the internal structure of the unit.
Quick question - what would the worst case scenario here if I don’t pay the money? Would I get evicted? Or will they report to collections?
So there's some question as to whether you're liable for the leak at all, which you'll want to address first. But you could be, especially since your insurance is paying out for the damages below, so if you are:
That's between you and your insurance company, you would still be directly responsible to the landlord.