Hi Dr Roberts, one thing I always wonder about these chroniclers from Medieval and Ancient periods is what their purpose was in writing these chronicles, exactly? Did 'history' really exist in the same way it does today, and who was it for? When Flodoard was writing his histories, who was the intended audience - was it other religious men of his own time, or did he have a sense that he was 'preserving' history for later generations? Or was it very simply something that many religious figures did because, frankly, they had the time?
Apologies if this is an overly-simple question as I am a layman with an interest in history but not a huge deal of knowledge of this era.
Not at all an overly-simple question, and in fact quite a tough one to approach in general terms. The issues of purpose and audience are crucial, both from the point of view of whom the author intends as their audience and, from the evidence provided to us of manuscript transmission, dissemination and reception, who actually seems to have read the work. In the tenth century, this is difficult and much debated. In the Frankish world, most history is written in Latin: who can read Latin at this time (when Old French or early Romance has begun to diverge, and many speak a Germanic dialect as their native tongue)? The answer is that it's probably primarily clerics and monks, though not exclusively: in the Carolingian period it is clear that Latin literacy was held in high regard among the secular aristocracy, and we have many Latin texts written by laypeople). Manuscript culture also has to be taken into account: this is not print; there are relatively few copies of any work, which are slow and very expensive to produce. Access to a historical work will necessarily be quite restricted. You definitely have to wonder how many people someone like Flodoard could really have expected to reach.
Sometimes you get internal clues about intended audience, such as a preface, where an author says (or at least claims) why or for whom they're writing. Sometimes this is for a patron - perhaps a king, who may or may not have requested the work but got it anyway. Some histories in the Carolingian period are thought to be 'mirrors for princes' - essentially, guides to good and bad conduct for powerful aristocrats and princes who will go on to become rulers. Sometimes histories are written for the edification of a local community, or give hints that they were written to be read aloud. Quite often, authors do indeed say they want to set down things they've witnessed lest they be left to oblivion.
Flodoard's audiences are difficult to pin down because he doesn't tell us much in the way of the above. His History of the Church of Rheims was (rather paradoxically) dedicated to his friend the archbishop of Trier, whom Flodoard says requested the work. This may be a convention, but I make the case in my book that the archbishop of Trier would have had legitimate interest in a work about a neighbouring episcopal see. The History is probably something of an advert for the rich history and prestige of the church of Rheims: as well as pointing out how eminent its bishops (e.g. St Remigius, Hincmar) have long been, Flodoard provides a detailed inventory of the church's property. This may have a practical administrative function, but it's also possible the work was designed to be excerpted or read aloud in certain contexts, so it could also have been written to encourage other patrons to give generously to the church.
Flodoard writes a more politically-focused chronicle, the Annals, which he models on earlier 9th-century Carolingian annals. This was a 'deeds of kings' genre to some extent that was sometimes written with the audience of a royal court in mind, though Flodoard was not himself a major political player (he was a canon and priest, never becoming a bishop himself), so it would have been more difficult for him to reach such an audience. One novel thing about Flodoard's annals, however, is that he occasionally interjects in the first person to justify his own actions when he got involved in local political conflicts. This is unusual, as annals tend to be impersonal and anonymous. I do think Flodoard writes annals (and he keeps adding to this chronicle for 45 years!) because he believes it's something that ought to be done, and future generations should be able to see what has gone on before them. But there is also an air of self-justification in it - what the historian Janet Nelson has referred to as 'a private history in the public history' (in reference to the 9th-century historian Nithard - who, incidentally, was a layman).