I’m asking if it is normal for a family to typically not see the body at all of a deceased loved one until the funeral service.... speaking in terms of the family I know a body can be identified other ways but the way the coroners are saying she was identified was by her DL and she had no DL on the scene and no fingerprints came back as her. Coroners claimed her identity by saying false information about showing the victims father pictures of her once he arrived to their home. The family denies this ever happened and are upset because they were told they couldn’t see the body because of the condition it’s in, but I talked to the police that was on the scene and was told her body was just fine which is odd. That’s why I felt suspicious about it especially when they do have the right to see the body once it arrives at the funeral home. Not just the day of service, but this is MY opinion. I live in the Southern California.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.
Generally speaking, if a body is properly identified, it is properly identified. Not sure what "normal" in in your location but bodies can be identified in various ways.
I am a bot whose sole purpose is to improve the timeliness and accuracy of responses in this subreddit.
This is a repost I was given advice to post here on legal advice. I deleted other post I created because I feel we’re too personal idk if they could still be up someway but anyways I have a question and wanted to simply know if this was a normal process. I like to hear what people like to say and I thought this was perfect to ask so everything you said has nothing to do with my question. If you don’t feel anything suspicious about anything I’ve said that’s fine but everything else is not necessary...
Title: Is it normal for a family of a deceased love one to not see the body to identify from a tragic accident until the day of the funeral? Or is that against their will?