There's more room for discussion, but you may find by /u/dhmontgomery on the topic interesting. It details how Spanish became the dominant language in Mexico through reforms in the late 18th c. and especially following independence.
- It's always tricky to compare colonies that developed very differently. In many former colonies the colonizers' language is spoken, but various native languages are retained, as in India. Even between Latin American countries it's not as easy as Spanish becoming dominant in the same way: some countries like Guatemala and Peru still have high percentages of native language speakers of up to 40%.
- Looking toward current Mexico: while Spanish is by far the majority language it's not defined as an official language. There are ca. 6 million speakers of indigenous languages in Mexico today connected to rich heritages. This is the 2nd largest group in Latin America, though small percentage wise compared to other countries like those mentioned above. Nahuatl has the highest number with over a million speakers, followed by Yucatec Maya and a wide variety of other languages. Here we can note an official discourse by the Mexican government of promoting indigenous cultures languages which is not necessarily followed through in reality (to put it mildly).
Yet, throughout the colonial period indigenous people were in the majority in Mexico, with a growing group of Africans and mixed descendants (ca. 40% by the mid 17th c.), and a very small group of Spaniards at the top of the social hierarchy. Plus until the 18th century at least the Spanish Crown recognised native language documents in colonial courts, and thought those languages helpful for Christianisation, a cornerstone of their rule. So that Spanish did not spread only due to the catastrophic death rate of native people - although this surely effected it. The forced language changes had more to do with intermixing between all those groups, as well as changing colonial policies that increasingly marginalized native languages, as mentioned above.
- Still, we can note some broad structural differences between your two examples. Colonial expansionism in India of course comes much later than in Mexico. The British tended to mix much less with local populations than the Spanish - in South Asia this meant broadly a class of British officials largely apart from the native Indians. While in colonial Mexico the Spanish also stayed at the top of the social hierarchy, intermixing (either forced or for strategical reasons) played an important role from the start. This also meant increasing linguistic influence and exchange almost from the start. In addition, in India the British started imposing Christianity only very gradually; while the Spanish expansion was built on mass scale conversion to Catholicism tied to Spanish. Such structural differences should be seen as the background to concrete political measures like those detailed in the above post. (Edit: I've talked about more differences between colonial powers, with a focus on Spanish America.).
- Bringing all this back to colonial times now. The focus of the Spaniards on the imperial languages of the Aztecs (Nahuatl) and the Incas (Quechua) meant that these actually replaced other indigenous languages - e.g. due to their use in official and religious contexts. At the same time, I know for Nahuatl that it gradually adopted Spanish influence. While this meant only certain Spanish words during the 16th c., by the mid 17th c. there was already stronger structural Spanish influence on Nahuatl. So we can keep in mind here colonial influences until today through a) the Spanish focus on indigenous lingua franca, and b) also limited Spanish linguistic influence on these.
While the role of diseases is important to consider, it is actually inaccurate to place the blame mostly on diseases, Additionally, what you’re referring to as ”ethnic cleansing” is better described as genocide.
My understanding has generally been that disease alone wasn’t enough to wipe them out, but did create the conditions for the historic colonization of the new world, and why it differed so greatly from Indian and African colonialism. Is that roughly accurate, or am I off base?
There are estimates that population loss due to disease was over 80%. On top of that, activities that would now be called "ethnic cleansing", e.g., war against natives, displacement, enslavement, had an additional devastating effect.
Additionally, while I haven't personally experienced these diseases and do enjoy an age where antibiotics and vaccines exist, I am also an American Indian. My ancestors--my family--have been impacted by this history and I've heard the stories. Thus, I don't feel your assessment on being able to judge the severity of these diseases is accurate. They're still strong when we tell our stories of what happened.
I really don't mean to sound rude when saying this, so please don't take it that way. You may think it isn't right to say, but if you're to offer your opinion, it is good to accompany it with sources, like how I've listed mine in the linked post where I make my argument. The other two comments replying to you make excellent points.
(Edit. Since demography has come up in the questions - the indigenous demographic catastrophe in Spanish America was very real. Numbers vary sometimes widely between regions, but we do have good studies for Mexico where roughly 90% of the indigenous population died over the first 100 years after European contact. This came through major epidemics to which there was no immunity, the combined effects of warfare and forced labor and resettlements among others - these would in turn create the conditions for further epidemics. By the mid 1700s the native population was finally slowly starting to grow again.
Luckily /u/Snapshot52 has already provided a great answer for this. I now added a reply at the bottom of my original post, more specifically on colonial Mexico. As I mention there, while the death rate was very high in many parts of the Americas, at least for Mexico this would not have been the major factor vis-a-vis the spread of Spanish.
In your post, you said that in some cases, 95% of deaths were due to disease. Yes, the actions of the colonizers were deplorable, but the mortality rate for diseases such as smallpox is such that I find it hard to believe that those actions had a major impact to the mortality rate. There are indications that smallpox reached beyond the first contact between colonizer and indigenous people to infections passed between adjacent tribes, absent contact with colonizers.
The Spanish also noticed early on the importance of elite intermarriages for the Nahua, and adopted such customs by marrying female nobles. At the same time, native nobles could also have advantages from such unions and would try and arrange strategic marriages for their daughters at times. Overall then from early on there was intermixing, increasingly with African people, while the relatively few Spanish were at the top of the colonial hierarchy. In addition, over time a creole (criollo) upper class developed that was set apart from the Spanish and would rule after independence in Latin American countries - a clear contrast to British colonies. (I've written about this ).
Accurate enough. You can read my linked post if you want a more in-depth take. Disease did play a major role, so it’s not to discount it. The issue is that it’s role is overly stated, so much so that it erases the impacts colonizers had.
You can find it hard to believe if you want, but that doesn’t negate the research and citations provided in my post. I’d encourage you to look into the cited materials, especially Beyond Germs, as it addresses this very notion. This explains that while there is evidence that smallpox began impacting communities past initial contact zones, groups that didn’t have sustained colonizer contact would have, and did, rebounded from the effects of the diseases.
Overall I would say it wasn't a question of either Spanish or British being more "elite" or of skin colors; but rather of differing colonial policies and attitutes towards non-European groups.
Academically, there is a difference between the terms for descriptive purposes. Ethnic cleansing doesn’t necessarily carry the same connotations or implication of intent to completely destroy a group of people.
Pragmatically speaking, there is little difference. I’m in favor of a broad definition of genocide and often those who engage in ethnic cleansing are not avoiding genocidal actions. A common framework for analysis that researchers use to define acts of genocide is the U.N. definition and there are some actions that don’t involve direct killing that still constitute genocide. So to me, there really isn’t a difference.
Well it's never as easy as differences in skin color making the difference. From the Spanish side there are a few factors that led to more "intermixing": esp. that during the 16th comparatively much less European women came over than men, and the ratio stayed somewhat skewed. So that there was a "practical" aspect from their pov to intermarrying with native women (again, these could be forced marriages).
In contrast, again in India colonial rule worked quite differently. For your question: British officials would usually come for only a limited time to South Asia (whereas Spaniards would mostly stay for a lifetime overseas). They would often bring their families when married, or try and find European matches overseas. There certainly developed a whole class of English Indians from mixed unions. Still, overall the British - as in some of their other colonies - had a clearer seperation with British officials more apart from native people.