Sign or no, the shop is responsible if they did something negligent that allowed the theft or failed to do something they promised they'd do.
They're not responsible for the independent criminal act of a third party in the absence of some sort of negligence.
Sounds like they got their sign from the same place that makes the dump truck signs that say 'Not responsible for broken windshields'. I can make a sign that says anything, but doing so does not make what the sign says legally true.
I appreciate your input. There were some other vehicles on the lot that had some catalytic converters stolen from them some time (I believe 1-2 months prior) before my truck was stolen. During that incident, the thieves broke the security cameras. Would failure to fix security cameras be considered negligence?
They need to submit this to their insurance company. Was the truck secured in anyway such as being locked up or in a secure area? Do you know if it was broken into or were the keys just left in it? Was it just parked on the street? Do they have security cameras? If they take custody of the vehicle it is their responsibility to take proper care that it does not come to harm.
1 you generally have 7 days to add a vehicle. If you have comp on your current car you may want to see if you can still add this. Be upfront with the loss.
It was broken into. There was glass where it was parked. It needed some small mechanical work with a very rare chance the vehicle would have irreparable engine damage. I didn't want to put any more money into it if I knew it wasn't going to be drivable was my excuse for not having it registered. Cameras on the lot were broken by some thieves who stole some catalytic converters out of some other cars on the lot shortly before my truck was stolen. Found that out after my truck was stolen.
Their security cameras were busted. They have a lot out back were some catalytic converters were stolen from some vehicles recently, so I was told. The truck was locked but just out front. Back window was likely busted then hot wired.
Correction i just reread your comment and the cat converters were stolen at a different time. Just ask the shop to pay out. They arent going to want to put in a 1200 dollar claim.