This isn't a thing (or at least an "official" thing). Registry sites that claim to "register" your animal, providing you with a certificate or whatever sometimes, are all money-making scams, and whatever it is they provide to you in exchange for money is useless and worthless.
You’re right, while ESA registration isn’t an official or formal thing, let alone required, it adds an added layer of protection and security. That’s a me thing.
The letter is from my psychiatrist, whom I have been seeing for over five years. I see him in person every other month. He is still my psychiatrist, I have not moved yet.
The letter from my doctor has all of the required information. But it doesn’t seem to matter to the landlord that anyone provides any kind of a letter, because they don’t accept them. That’s where my biggest problem and frustration is.
Your apartment complex is declaring (rightfully) that your "registration card" is meaningless nonsense. Whether or not your letter is too vague is a separate matter, but the presence of the nonsense and your doctor's apparently inability to answer a phone call/respond to the faxed document are not going to provide them a warm fuzzy.
What does the letter say, and -- just to make sure \-- this is a letter from a doctor that you're currently or very very recently under the ongoing care and treatment of, in real life, not a tele-doc or someone you found on the internet, correct?
You can provide your landlord , specifically pages 7-12, which cover assessing a reasonable accommodation request for an ESA.
FHA violations are reported through HUD or a tenant organization in your state/municipality. It's unclear that a specific violation is happening here.
Note that you should review this document yourself to make sure your letter does in fact cover the requirements listed.
The letter you have many not actually have all the required information in it. If so, they are allowed to have your doctor fill out the form.
I have to be honest: you have a "registry card", and a letter from a doctor's office that they are unable to get ahold of to verify. It looks a really very large amount like you're trying to scam them to avoid paying pet rent.
From your tale, it is not at all clear that your landlord is in violation of anything, and you screaming at them and treating their requirements as: