Yes I did. This was their main advice to me. They said themselves and the equality office really have no official power within the university. They can only give recommendations and that's it. They also said that if an internal investigation were to take place, there may be bias as it is essentially "a bank investigating itself." He gave me really good advice at the end though saying that two investigations should be done simultaneously. One from the university and one through the state after filing a civil rights complaint. It is Sunday so it will have to wait until tomorrow but I am going to do both.
Why were you not having weekly meetings for your first 1-2 years? Did you follow up on your accommodations with the university disability department at any point before failing your oral exam? Did you discuss the accommodation request prior to joing your PIs lab?
Upon further reading of your post history I have the following questions: Since you only failed the oral portion and not the written, did you have accomodations set up for the oral exam? Were these accomodations followed? What is the nature of the oral exam, is it based on your PhD proposal or is it based on class/papers?
Some advice (not legal advice): you should talk with your department admin specifically the one responsible for the graduate program. They tend to have a much better understanding of both your needs and the program PIs and are fully versed in options available to you.
I will be honest, I did not realize I needed them. It was a new environment and it never crossed my mind initially. I did have a standardized schedule right from the beginning however. Accommodations can change as time goes by and eventually I realized I needed a better communication system. After this realization I communicated the new requests/accommodations with my research mentor and the graduate school. For 6 months (before the oral exam) I kept following up with both of them. One month after the oral exam (the 7 month mark), I was let go.
Did you discuss the accommodation request prior to joining your PIs lab? Yes, I discussed that I had a disability and needed accommodations prior to joining the lab.
Since you only failed the oral portion and not the written, did you have accommodations set up for the oral exam? Yes, I did. I am not good at relaying information orally. I was given the ability to write things down, create a quick outline and be given a few minutes to think about each question. In practice, none of this occurred as committee members either felt the silence awkward or were impatient so I was rushed most of the time.
Well by all means you can consult with an attorney and work with the disabilities department at your school, but it certainly sounds like the part of the exam that you failed was the part that you did not use your accomodations. While the PI should have reviewed your talk and you should have given practice talks.
What is the nature of the oral exam, is it based on your PhD proposal or is it based on class/papers? It was a unique exam. It was based entirely on theory and questions relating to anything within my research scope. I technically passed the oral questioning portion of the oral exam. It came down to the presentation. There was conflicting information coming from my research mentor about what my presentation should include and how long it should be. Initially it was 45 minutes, then 20 minutes and then eventually we might not even do it. I was told to include background information to show that I knew all the theoretical aspects of my project. I was then told to just talk about my research and where it is. This is where it gets tricky. I do not understand nuanced language or underlining meanings. When he said "talk about my research" I took that as just make bullet points in wording. I confirmed this with him over and over weeks leading up to the written and oral exam. In the end he meant, add graphs, charts, pictures, etc. of my research and explain the data. He is required to give me specific language and that was not communicated to me. I know it's easy for someone who is not autistic to think that's obvious but it was not to me. I failed the oral because of the last 20 minutes of a presentation that was not up to the standards he "thought" it should be.
In no way whatsoever have you offended me. No idea why someone would think I was being hostile to you. I'm not. I'm trying to ask questions to understand what went on.
Our prelims are decided on by our committees so there is no standard. I don’t know if other students got feedback. It doesn’t matter.
So I’m supposed to pretend that this didn’t happen? The PI is required by law to give reasonable accommodations and I was thrown out as a result of it. I would never go back to that lab. I don’t get why I am being downvoted for something that is clearly wrong.
Looking at it from another angle, let's say you are successful in regards to the disability office coming down on the PI. What do you think is going to happen? Unless you have your own funding it's unlikely that they will be required to keep you on using their funding, and even if they do, it's unlikely that you will be successful in your PhD under them. It is far better to take the 2 year loss and move onto a new lab. Considering that the first two years tend to be more class heavy you are likely just losing a year of research time at most.
You're likely best off finding a new PI that will work with you and be a better fit for you and your disabilities. You getting a PhD is highly dependent on your PI. If the PI supports you, you are basically guarenteed a PhD, without a PI that supports you, they can make it incredibly difficult to pass your defense or even reach that step.
So it sounds like to me the issue was that the presentation you have was insufficient and you believe this was due to your PI not giving you information on what to include in your presentation. Did you go to the disability office when your PI was not giving you information and feedback? Did other PhD students in his lab get feedback for their prelims? Is your prelim outlined in your departments student handbook or other guide?
Third, if the PI took away the ramp my advice would be the same thing: legally there likely is an issue here, but practically the best thing to do is go to a new lab where you have a supportive PI.
Again I'll reiterate, you can definitely consult with an attorney familiar with this type of civil litigation and with the disability department and see what can be done, but ultimately it is probably a good idea to just move onto a new lab and be more selective to ensure your PI and you have a good understanding and will work well together.
My accommodations included having specific language given to me (because I am autistic and cannot understand underlying meaning of messages) and to have weekly meetings. Had I been told to include charts, graphs, etc. in my presentation, I would have passed. I asked my PI multiple times about what to include in my presentation and nothing that specific was given to me. He was just general and vague and I designed a presentation based on that. He also said he did not want to see the presentation prior. I don’t know if I offended you or something. Based on someone else who read this, they think you are being hostile. Again, I don’t know if you are or not. I’m just fighting for my civil rights under the ADA and don’t want to be thrown away just because I have diagnosed autism spectrum disorder. Oral communication is difficult for me.
Do you have a disability? What if the PI took away a ramp for a physically disabled person because he didn’t like the way it looked and then tossed them out of the lab? It’s literally the SAME thing.