I have mitochondrial complex type II deficiency (heterozygous) and I'm going to see a genetic specialist in March. Should I ask her about this? I'm a young adult so I don't know if it would work for me.
Anyways, I'm so glad this therapy works. I can't imagine the lives that will be changed from this discovery. Not just for the kids, but also for their families. This science is bonkers. I'm so relieved to know there are scientists out there looking out for those of us with rare diseases. Humanity's ability to empathize with one another is our greatest strenh.
Hmmmm new dystopian plot: people rush to have kids early with similar-gened partners so they could harvest their matching mitochondria (yes i know bad science) so they could stay young forever.
Mitochondrial disfunction is also linked to aging. Imagine being able to get a mitochondrial rejuvenation and how good it would feel to have some of the energy of youth.
It wouldn’t help as your condition is due to you lacking the ability to make an enzyme that mitochondria use. Mitochondria have their own unique DNA that are separate from the DNA in our nuclei. The majority of mitochondrial enzymes and proteins are made from this DNA, but not all are. Your specific condition, if you are right, is due to a deficiency in your nuclear DNA, not the mitochondrial DNA.
The article is about mitochondrial transplants, which are replacing the mitochondrial population and their DNA, not the main DNA we associate with our 23 chromosomes. The study replaced the mitochondria of an embryo, as it’s not possible to do a transplant past that mark. There is no one cell population to replace in anything post a certain level of development, so you would have to replace every cell, which isn’t feasible.
Even if they could transplant the mitochondria, your condition would be unchanged as the source of the issue doesn’t lie with the mitochondria. It’s from your chromosomal DNA making a faulty protein. Your mitochondrial DNA is working fine, it’s just getting a faulty protein that prevents the mitochondria from functioning properly.