This is a very twisted interpretation. The camps were set up and organized by the RSHA (Reichssicherheitshauptamt = Reich Security Main Office) which was directed by Heinrich Himmler, head of the SS, Gestapo and Minister of Internal Affairs (Head of Police) after '35. The SS ran the camps, and as such the SS was not part of the army. So, German regular soldiers (of those drafted into the regular army, the Wehrmacht), did generally not serve in the camps for this pure logistical reason -- it was not the army's prerogative.
The SS was an all-volunteer organizations until the last stages of the war ('44 or so), when it did began drafting as well. Having said that, it remains one of the shocking aspects of the Holocaust that when Nazi Germany began in '33, the SS counted about 50,000 men, and at the end of the war it counted 1,200,000. Of that latter number, by the spring of '45, more than 600,000 were from countries other than Germany, and most of them volunteers (eg 80k from France and Belgium each, 40k from the Netherlands, 20k from Sweden, 20k from Lithuania etc etc).
The SS had military units fighting in the field alongside the regular army (these were the so-called Waffen-SS) but again, these were not the ones running the camps (but did commit some of the worst atrocities outside of them).
So, of the SS serving in the camps (the so-called Totenkopf-SS, the "Skulls"-SS), the majority was German, but there were often local units and auxiliary police involved. Of the non-Germans serving in the camp, some countries were statistically "overrepresented" (e.g. Austria -- ca 20% of the Auschwitz SS guards were from Austria, which is less than 1/10th the size of Germany by population). So the picture is a little more complicated than that. The overall death apparatus of the Holocaust (camps, guards, execution squads, train logistics etc) roughly required about a million people actively participating, out of which approximately half was German.
SS men after the war would sometimes say they made a choice to be Waffen-SS rather than Totenkopf for moral reasons, but the truth is that within the Nazi apparatus the Waffen-SS was considered of "higher value" or more "heroic" than the lowly camp guards, whose careers usually did not reach much beyond, whereas Waffen-SS officers could rise to the status of a General equivalent. The way to make a career in the Nazi state was less likely through the Camp guard system, which was therefore self-selecting the low intelligence brutes it needed. "Psychologically taxing" had little to do with it.
You can find a source for Ukrainian/Baltic/Eastern European collaboration with the Nazis, from the work of Christopher Browning. For example, Ordinary Men.