Going to go against the grain here. Yes, HR is there to protect the company. Part of protecting the company is resolving more extreme situations like this to protect the company from liability. Your manager just became a HUGE source of liability. Not addressing this very seriously opens up the company to a time consuming, expensive, PR-damaging lawsuit.
Suspending someone while they investigate is very standard procedure. It's a bit of a compromise between both parties while the scramble to come to a solution. You get to continue working in a workplace free of the person who assaulted you, and he gets paid suspension until they make a FULL investigation and make SURE on what their next steps are, otherwise they open themselves up to a lawsuit on his end as well. They may even be consulting with a lawyer themselves right now, this report is that serious. They will WANT to make sure all of their bases are covered before they take any action.
Don't discount this just yet. I know you're a little beaten down over it, but he has been removed, his supervisor took this very seriously and took over his work duties, HR is investigating, and a complaint this extreme is not likely to just slide on by.
And a police report is further incentive for HR to make the right call here. They are investigating -- turning over a police report is another document that adds to the pile in your favour.
Going to the police is still a very very good call, though. He assaulted you... And as much as police like to turn their heads away from the so-called "smaller incidents", choking is a serious level of assault where the perpetrator often escalates quickly from there. Might be a one off for the manager, but the police might perk up a little bit at the mention of choking.
Edit: thanks biondina for removing the comments that implied HR would be doing absolutely nothing for OP and advising that OP is likely going to lose their job over this so start the job-hunt now. I think the "HR is there to protect the company" sentiment that is often found on this sub grossly misunderstands what that actually means and then that misunderstanding gets parroted around. Please carefully reflect on common answers on LA and refrain from spreading them around until you understand what they mean in full. Also glad to hear that OP is on the right path in advocating for herself!
I’m sorry that this happened to you. You did the appropriate action by reporting this to HR. You should also report the assault to your local police department, if you haven’t done so already.