Thank you, the fact that he wouldn’t let me leave is a huge red flag and I want to know all my rights. I was so scared and just wanted to take my kids for a night, but I would never be able to physically overpower him or forcibly take my children so I was just stuck. I was scared the police would just worsen the situation and I don’t know what to do if this happens again.
I would suggest you make contact with a local women's shelter, not necessarily for housing, but to know what your options are in the event you need to leave quickly and have a safety plan in place. They also generally have connections to other community resources and can refer to legal assistance or low cost attorneys to assist with any divorce/custody/order of protection proceedings. Please keep yourself and your children safe. If you are considering leaving, please do not try to do it alone. Unfortunately, leaving is the most dangerous part of an abusive relationship and there are resources out there in place to help you.
FYI: Georgia has a Statewide Domestic Violence Hotline that can get you in touch with a local shelter and resources. There number is 1-800-334-2836.
I would say contact a local domestic violence shelter, or contact the police now and get ahead of the situation if you don't feel safe. Additionally, GA is a one party consent state so you're free to privately record in the event of any altercation.
Him not letting you leave would be the only crime committed. You are allowed to take your children to a hotel, or anywhere else you want to. He is allowed to do the same. He is not your boss, and he doesn't get to control what you can or can't do with your children.
We just had a verbal argument and then he threw some heavy chairs and started screaming in my face, blocking me in a corner from escaping.
When he finally let me walk by I grabbed a bag and started throwing clothes in. He then continued to block my exit from every way, chasing me even, saying if I took the girls he will call the cops. I was begging him to let me out, I just wanted a hotel for the night, he kept saying he’d call the police on me.
I just gave up and shut myself in my daughters room. I don’t know what the cops would do if they showed up.
I’m worried he could tell the police I that have BPD and frame me as unable to care for my kids, which is untrue. We don’t get into physical altercations but when he’s mad he gets vengeful.
This is something you should be proactive about, I read that you wrote "I don’t know what to do if this happens again.".