This submission has been removed because it is or it has the effect of promoting an opinion on contemporary politics or social issues at the expense of historical integrity. There are certainly historical topics that relate to contemporary issues and it is possible for legitimate interpretations that differ from each other to come out of looking at the past through differing political lenses. However, we will remove questions that put a deliberate slant on their subject or solicit answers that align with a specific pre-existing view.
In what way is it "soapboxing" or "moralizing"? It is a legitimate question on the historical impact of the Spanish, English, and Portuguese on Native Americans, and why it is never referenced. By this same mark would it be against the rules to speak about ww2, the cold war, or really any period of European history?
If you're interested in the differences between countries' treatment of indigenous populations, or the different ways they've glossed over their genocidal behaviour in national narratives, you're welcome to ask about that in a more historical way. For example, you could ask "Did the British and French treatment of First Nations in colonial Canada follow similar patterns as the treatment of Native Americans in the US?" or "Is the study of colonial expansion in Britain and France influenced by modern criticism of the treatment of indigenous people in the same way that it is in the US? If not, why not?" You can rephrase them to apply to Spain or Portugal or Germany or Belgium or the Netherlands as well.
It's about the way you're asking the question. You're asking why others aren't taking their share of the blame (or why the US is unfairly singled out). It suggests that your question doesn't come from an interest in history, but from an agenda that intends to weaponise history.
Oh but my friend, the US being singled out isn't modern, it's been happening for the better part of 100 years, so it is history, and by prefacing my post with a disclaimer saying I don't agree with the way the US treated the Natives, it is clear that I do not intend to "weaponize" anything, my question would essentially be the same as asking "Why are Romans so revered when they were brutal" Though something tells me that wouldn't be taken down. With one country being singled out for a century, it becomes history, not part of an agenda, if you are unsure about intent, ask instead of immediately assuming "This person wants to start shit". It's a simple premise that has worked for all of human history.
We take down questions that seek justice rather than knowledge. Your question undoubtedly fits the bill:
You're asking a loaded question, assuming it is a fact that the US is "heavily criticised" while other countries "never catch any flak". It is impossible to answer this question in a historical way.
However, we understand that you may have unintentionally phrased it that way, which is why I am here right now to help you rephrase it. We want you to get an answer that is not charged with ideologically motivated speculation. Again, there are ways to ask this question that do not sound like you're trying to score political points. I gave some examples above. You could also ask "What is the history of criticism of American policy towards Native Americans? When and why did it start?".
God your assumptions are as great as any I have ever seen. It is not a question seeking "justice" Do remind me, when did I ever say "Go bash those other countries" oh right I didn't, I merely asked why it is that they do not receive criticism when the US does, not that they should receive it, It is not a loaded question, because it is historical FACT that they committed the same crimes, The Spaniards wiped out both the Aztecs and the Inca, and the British fought the natives for nearly 250 years, there is nothing loaded about it, it's asking why this piece of history is rarely spoken about, and it seems less like breaking rules, and more like you have a personal problem with it, if you don't like dark parts of history, don't be a mod on a HISTORY sub reddit dude.
On the other hand, if you want that ideologically charged answer you're welcome to post this question on a more casual sub like r/AskHistory or r/AskReddit.
You equating my question to a call to action is flat out ridiculous, it would be like me asking "Why didn't the government Nuke Japan a third time" and you equating it to me calling for nuclear war.