Both because the lease doesn't specify, and because your parents have agreed to it, it seems to me that her designated space is now spot A. I don't think litigating which specific parking space she is assigned is productive.
If she's intruding on other parking spaces, your parents could potentially start the eviction process with a cure or quit notice, but it's probably more productive to give her written notice that her car will be towed as specified in her lease, and then to have her towed if she doesn't comply. Similarly, giving her 7 to 30 days to clear the other parking space and then junking it may be more practical than eviction.
Honestly the goal is to get her to clean her stuff and get my parents spot back. No I don’t want to evict Karen, I don’t care if she stays here. We just want the situation rectified and to move on. However, we do need to know how far we can take it. If we were ever in front of a judge, we will make it clear that she can stay if she fixes both issues. But if she still refuses, yes then she can go. Also, her daughter is the one on the lease which means we will probably need to serve her daughter my (formerly) best friend. (Which is how it’s partially my problem).
As for _you_, you have a dispute with your parents. They promised you parking, and are not providing it. Take it up with them. Their dispute with your neighbour is not your problem - they can solve their problem with _you_ by providing you with one of the other spaces, or by offering to cover parking elsewhere until this is worked out, or even by offering a discount on your rent to cover the loss of parking, as you prefer.
My concern is her stuff is obstructing my spot making it hard to park so I do want to assist my parents in fixing this because I’m the one that brought her in here. And I’m willing to give in on the other spot but she’s had other issues as well.
And to further clarify, this isn’t my parents problem either. They’re just managing the property. The landlord is someone else. So my problem would technically be with him, but causing problems with the landlord could cost my parents their job so that’s not the route I want to take.
My goal is to present the written notice with the lease quotes to the landlord so he can bring in a lawyer (or do it himself) to speak to these tenants.
And on the AB 1482, again, not the landlord so I’m not sure. But that has to do with rent caps and increases right? That’s not an issue to my current situation. These apartments are 6 sets identical pairs. The landlord only owns 1 pair and his pair (despite being identical to the rest) is $300 a month less than the next cheapest ones. (Again, despite being identical). And if we did give her an eviction notice, it would be with the 30 days, given she’s been here less than a year.