You should just get the tooth extracted at this point. Most malpractice lawyers will not take something like this on because the overall payout potential is low. Your best bet would be to try to get restitution for fees already paid from the dentist or facility. Good luck.
Maybe I didn't make myself clear. I'm not in pain because of the tooth...I'm in pain for every meal because of the nerve he damaged due to his negligence. I just cannot imagine that a lifetime worth of mouth pain isn't worth that much. This man has got to be held accountable and I deserve compensation. Every meal every bite every day.
This guy is very thorough and totally right, except for the very last sentence. It would be speculative to say the dentist clearly didn't remove the nerve, because root canals only remove nerve tissue inside the tooth. If you were to inject anesthetic into a canal for the purpose of trying to get someone numb, the fluid will extrude out the apical portion (the opening) of the tooth, and if that area is badly infected then it can certainly cause extreme pain. It's no different than pushing on an abscess, as you are essentially inflating an abscessed balloon with the anesthetic. Wonderful explanation though. I'm a dentist.
Get a second opinion from a different dentist at a different dental office. If the first dentist did actually commit malpractice, the first step is getting evaluated by someone unconnected to the first doctor. Completing the root canal (which removes the remainder of the nerve in the tooth), an apicoectomy (an oral surgery procedure which removes the uppermost tip of the tooth and any remaining nerve from deep within your gum), or having the tooth extracted (which removes what is left of the tooth and nerve) will almost certainly result in the pain going away. It sucks that you need to have a third procedure on the same tooth (the dentist should have removed the whole nerve the first time, but he clearly didn't).
Facial pain can be excruciating and devastating. While it can be permanent, that is super rare. Given the situation you've described, your pain is almost certainly not permanent. I unfortunately do know a lot about this as I have untreatable permanent nerve damage resulting in moderate to severe pain which was caused by a dental procedure. Most of the numerous dentists/oral surgeons/neurologists/pain management doctors I have met with have never actually met someone in my condition.
The most likely reason is that the initial root canal was never completed (which is basically what the dentist seems like was trying to tell you, although he communicated it poorly). A root canal is the complete removal of the nerve from within the tooth and filling the space that remains with an inert material. If he had fully removed the nerve, he couldn't have shot anesthetic directly into it. Presumably nerve remains because the tip of the drill broke off leaving nerve above it. Having the tip of the drill break off is actually really common and not malpractice. The fact that he took 2 hours to not complete the first step of the root canal and that he could not remove the broken drill fragment shows he is inexperienced in this procedure.