Since much of North Africa had been host to established civilizations for centuries with which Europeans had traded extensively for 100s of years , had fought and lost a wars, even had parts of Europe been conquered by them. The concept of settling such an area wouldn’t be of any interest as it well known the area wasn’t really that abundant in resources and the struggles would be similar to that in Europe.
When the question comes for Sub Sharan Africa the scrabble for Africa began much later around 1870 which was well into the industrial revolution , it was mainly a scramble driven to compensate for the losses of new world colonies to independence movements , in light of this:
(1) it wasn’t really encouraged as due to the drive towards industrialization the primary focus was to obtain resources. Moreover , prior experience had shown that settlement would lead to demands for self determination which could result in independent countries basically invalidating the original aim of a colony - source of free raw materials.
(2) Political systems had greatly evolved as such there was general less persecution in religious ground and greater channels to have grievances addressed as such people didn’t really need to just find escape as was case of a lot of Intial immigrants who were refugees fleeing religious persecution.
(3) A considerable amount of immigration to the new world was caused by failed harvests , famines, and other turmoil where people found their sources of livelyhoods vanish. This wasn’t the case as in this era people could now migrate to cities (and were encouraged to do so) where work awaited in factories that were popping up.
(4) One other thing is that a lot of land was still available for settling in the new world colonies , and with more stability, well developed communication networks and booming economies it was a no brainer to travel there than basically the middle of nowhere that was Africa ! As in the later you would have to literally start from scratch to settle the land.
(5) When people travelled to new world the distance was immense , perilous , and mainly a one way trip. However by time of the African scramble steamships had shortened the distance, and the distance to Europe was limited as such , it was really possible to return if fortunes didn’t work out for you.
Since the conceptualization of the act of genocide, scholars have developed a variety of frameworks to evaluate instances that may be considered genocide. One of the more common frameworks is the definition and criteria implemented by the United Nations. The term "genocide," as coined by Raphael Lemkin in 1943, . The use of this term was further elaborated by.
This basically is my analysis of the situation ... I could have missed out certain things. Hoping someone will expand on what I am saying.