Return your doctor's call. Your doctor may have good advice for handling your situation in your state (which you did not post).
Do not be too concerned about your doctor. Worry about your health and well-being, which is what your psychiatrist will try to help you with. Doctors (and the regulatory bodies that enforce their rules/laws) get worried when their patients make complaints about them, not overbearing mothers.
You may want to (calmly) remind your mother that Adderall is a schedule II controlled substance and every prescription drug (this is why they are called "legend" drugs) - let alone controlled substances - has a warning about federal law and transferring those drugs to any person for whom they are not intended. You can also call the pharmacist that dispensed for advice about how to handle your situation. Don't engage your mother about the quality of Adderall past that you and your doctor have decided to try it and at this point, you believe it is helping with your symptoms (you'll have to gauge whether these are worthwhile comments too).
Continue to tell your doctor the truth. With respect to what your insurance will release to your mother, you can contact them (you didn't post the company or state) and ask. Your insurance plan may also have a special procedure for a situation like this if you ask that they disclose information to you only.
Have a conversation with your psychiatrist and I am supremely confident she will be able to assuage these fears. If your doctor has been practicing for more than, say, 9 months, he has been through this all multiple times before.
Thank you so much for this advice.. I am in Colorado and my insurance is with United Health. I am worried that my doctor will stop seeing me over this, or that I'll have some kind of note on my file preventing other doctors from treating me. My mom told her that I lost a ton of weight and an emaciated (once again, not true). But my doctor has never met me in person since this is all telehealth.