Winning at Stalingrad would not have delivered the Caucasus to the Germans. If anything, it would have diluted the effort to seize the oilfields of Maikop and Grozny even more than it did in real life.
It was only midway through Case Blue that Hitler insisted on capturing Stalingrad rather than just masking it. Army Group South was split into two new army groups, imaginatively called A and B. Army Group A under Field Marshal Fedor von Bock turned south towards the Caucasus and oil in Operation Edelweiss, while Army Group B under Field Marshal Wilhelm List drove for the Volga and Stalingrad in Operation Fischreiher. The original plan was to mask the Volga crossings, then turn south. Army Group South could not do both at the same time. Indeed, Army Group B's strenh was so diluted that it had to leave huge stretches of the Don's south west bank unguarded, which later became the assembly areas for the Soviets' Operation Uranus after the Sixth Army had wasted itself trying to capture Stalingrad. That isn't to say that Case Blue in its original form could have succeeded: to advance from the Donets river to the Caucasus, Army Group South would have to travel distances greater than it had in Operation Barbarossa the previous year, over a much poorer road network, with understrenh forces, against a prepared opponent, without the advantage of surprise, and in the middle of a fuel crisis.
I'm of the belief that it's not outside the bounds of realism to imagine a scenario where a more strategically-focused Germany might have forced the Soviets to seek armistice terms, for example, by Hitler enforcing unity of command in 1941 and insisting on seizing the Donbass rather than seeking to destroy the Red Army wherever it was found, or by seeking to close the Persian Corridor by bombing Astrakhan and Tbilisi, or by committing more forces to the Arctic theatre to cut the rail line to Murmansk. The Soviets took an incredible blow in 1941 that it's doubtful that any other nation could have come back from. However, with the mentality and the plan that the Germans invaded with, they were not going to achieve victory on the terms they had set with the army they had. They committed themselves to too many objectives over too much ground and in too little time, with nothing like the logistics to support it. And even if they had managed to get the Soviets to agree to terms, that doesn't mean it would have been anything like a sustainable peace.
Ian kershaw in "hitler" says stalin several times offered germany peace and to leave large swaths of territory, but hitler refused to accept this and seeing it as a sign of weakness, making him push the army even harder. Is this correct and if it is, would this been a peace or simply a short period where the soviets would prepare for an even grander counter attack?