The name for the existential conflict between the capitalists in the west and the Soviet Union and its allies in the east is the Cold War. The term was coined by Bernard Baruch on 16 April, 1947-- so more than a year before the blockade of Berlin. That means the term the Cold War (in stark contrast to the term the Second World War for example) was being used almost the moment the conflict (or rather long series of conflicts) broke out.
Within months, journalists, Walter Lippmann most famously, had latched onto the term out of its stark utility to describe the nature of the struggle against the Soviet Union. George Orwell used the term in quotes and with lowercase letters to describe his feared coming world order-- which he would outline later in his seminal work 1984 (1948):
The end of the Cold War in 1991 coincided with the dissolution of the Soviet Union as an entity and in the eyes of political scientist Francis Fukuyama:
The traditional dating of the beginning of World War II is September 1, 1939, when Germany invaded Poland, and then, two days later, the U.K. and France declared war on Germany.
The Oxford English Dictionary cites the first usage of "World War II" in reference to the conflict just ten days later, in an article in the September 11, 1939, edition of Time magazine:
On September 24, 1939, the New York Herald Tribune printed a letter to the editor, dated from September 13, under the title "Not a 'World' War":
It seems, within the first two weeks of World War II breaking out, it was regularly being referred to by that name.
There were certainly many related conflicts that happened much earlier, such as the Italian invasion of Ethiopia in 1935, the Second Sino-Japanese War that started with the Japanese invasion in 1937, and the German occupation of Czechoslovakia in 1938, but most historians still cite the German invasion of Poland on September 1, 1939, as the start date of the Second World War, broadening these separate conflicts into a global conflict where countries the world over began allying with one side or the other.
The second is from an unsigned article in The Observer from March 10, 1946, which is very much related to the actual "Cold War", as fallout from the Moscow Conference of 1945:
Also, on the Cold War itself, the OED gives two instances of the term predating Baruch's use. The earliest is by George Orwell, published in the U.K.'s Tribune magazine on October 19, 1945, which is the same quote you cited from 1984, but it had appeared earlier in the Tribune before it became part of Orwell's book three years later.
> "After the Moscow Conference last December,..Russia began to make a ‘cold war’ on Britain and the British Empire.".
Oh, sorry. The way you structured it, it seemed you were saying the Orwell article came both after Baruch's and Lippmann's naming, in 1948, when, in fact, your link correctly says it came from 19 October 1945, which would mean he coined it, even if he didn't use it in connection with the actual Cold War. After that, it would seem The Observer was the first to apply it to the actual Allied/Soviet relationship, and then Baruch's use popularized it.
I was basing the assertion that World World II wasn't recognized as a potentially global conflict until, as you rightly point out, the German invasion of Poland in 1939. In fact, the war in the Pacific began much further back than that and the two didn't really coalesce until 1941 when the Germans invaded the Soviet Union. It's a point made explicitly by Victor Davis Hanson in his recent The Second World Wars that states that it was not the accepted assertion (that the conflict was global) until much later in the mainstream though.
As you mentioned there was plenty of theoretical conversation about World War II well before 1939, and I don't know that it's fair to say an article saying 'this is not a world war' is justification that the term was being used immediately upon the outbreak of what was still considered to be very much a European war. The Time Magazine article you reference is a totally valid counterpoint to Hanson's position.
I just picked that one out because the writer claims, within two weeks of the Polish invasion, that "newspapers continually mention the war in Europe as the second World War or World War II". Perusing newspapers in that time frame, he's right. The Baltimore Sun, the Philadelphia Inquirer, the Pittsburgh Times-Gazette, the New York Herald Tribune, the Washinon Post, the New York Times, and Time magazine, as just a sampling, had all used the term "World War II" and/or "Second World War" by the time the writer had penned his letter on September 13th. That same day, in fact, the New York Times that said that Washinon & Jefferson College was already going to offer a course that semester on the "Second World War".
With respect to the Cold War naming-- the quote I reference is not from 1984, it's from the Tribune article you mention, which is why I included it since it's likely to have impacted the later-on 'official' naming.
The letter writer's complaint appears to be a fairly typical isolationist standpoint in the U.S. of the time: a complaint that the press's insistence on characterizing it as a "world war" was going to cause the U.S. to become involved. That's a very different statement than that the term wasn't being regularly used "in the mainstream". The Herald Tribune correspondent wasn't alone in this complaint. The Colorado Transcript newspaper made pretty much two weeks later on September 28, 1939:
The Detroit Free Press printed yet another letter to the editor making the same complaint a few months later. That is, the media's continued use of "Second World War" was going to get the U.S. involved, so they should stop using the commonly-used term.
While I'm not sure exactly when the phrase first appeared in the U.K. press, the Times of London had printed it no later than 10 October 1939. There was a by-election in Scotland which was contested by the isolationist, minor Independent Labour Party, "in spite of the political truce tacitly agreed upon" by the major parties. The I.L.P. candidate issued a statement for the reason to contest the election, which the Times paraphrased:
It seems there was agreement among isolationists that the war was being characterized as a "world war" or even was a world war. In the U.S., they viewed the term as a dangerous encouragement for the country to get involved. In the U.K., they thought it was no excuse to continue their involvement.
This is also true, but again, this is a much different claim from the term not being "in the mainstream". If you read the Reynolds essay, all it basically says is that, as with many wars, the governments involved can be reticent to label them, and this was even more of an issue when the wars were being popularly labeled as "world wars". Reynolds says that the Times of London and New York Times both treated the terms more conservatively than the rest of the popular press, but he also says of the First World War:
What he does write in the preface is that, even though the war may have actually had global implications in September 1939, it didn't truly become a holistic world war until 1941, which is a much different claim. For this he cites A World at Total War: Global Conflict and the Politics of Destruction, 1937-1945 ed. by Roger Checkering, et. al, which is exactly the claim the book makes. It says that until the 1960s and 70s, study of World War II was often split up in two parts, with it not becoming a truly global war until 1941, when Germany invaded the Soviet Union and Japan attacked Pearl Harbor. But it calls this view Eurocentric, even if "it remained true that the wars against Germany and against Japan [had] continued, by and large, in separate compartments.".
Reynolds goes on to explain the same thing happened with WWII. He cites that British politician Duff Cooper resgined from Chamberlain's Cabinet after the Munich Agreement in 1938, and began speaking out over the next year, and this series of speeches was then collected under the title The Second World War: First Phase, published . The Amalgamated Press in London started publishing a fortnightly magazine beginning in October 1939 under the title The Second Great War about the then-current conflict. But the government itself was reticent to follow the popular mainstream terms, again, for political reasons more than for realistic reasons. It wasn't until 1944 that the U.K. government acknowledged "Second World War" as an accepted, official term for the war.
The second source Hanson cites in the brief claim in the preface is David Reynolds' From World War to Cold War: Churchill, Roosevelt, and the International History of the 1940s, specifically citing Reynolds' assertions that the "nations in the war did not employ the term".
But then Reynolds points out that the U.K. government was much more reticent to label the war anything more than "the war", more for political and ideological considerations than realistic ones.
Hanson, following Reynolds, isn't saying that WWII wasn't accepted as a world war, or that the terms "World War II" or "Second World War" were not accepted "in the mainstream" from September 1939. He's saying something entirely different, that they were mainstream terminology, but the governments themselves were reticent to use such terms. Hanson also claims, following Roger Checkering, et. al, that the governments may have been right to do so, since an argument can be made that WWII didn't become truly global until 1941.
The U.S. was a bit more quick, but still the same kind of thing happened. Reynolds acknowledges that Second World War "was the preferred term in the United States, and most of the Western world followed suit" but that Franklin Roosevelt didn't actually use it until May 1941, and the U.S. government didn't regularly use it until after Pearl Harbor.