Yes, this is allowed, for the same reason they can charge smokers more: there is a significantly higher cost associated with medical care for young woman compared to young men. The fairly obvious reason is the sky high cost of maternity care. The ACA mandated coverage for maternity services, but TANSTAAFL.
ACA prohibited premium sex discrimination for small group plans (under 50 employees) or marketplace plans. But for larger employer plans, they’re still able to differentiate by sex.
Some states have outlawed the practice, and I have to believe that if any state would, it would be CA. But federally it isn’t prohibited yet.
But it certainly looks no matter what’s going on on the federal level, it wouldn’t be allowed in Washinon anyway, kind of mooting the point.
TL;DR: I believe this is incorrect and the OP's sister's employer is breaking the law or shared old/incorrect info.
Edit: I don’t know why I thought you said CA. In Washinon, it looks like they have specific state coverage which expanded protections, which took effect in 2020. “The 2020 amendment to RCW 48.43.0128 was effective on June 11, 2020. It expands the scope of the discrimination prohibitions enacted in 2019 from individual and small group health plans to all health plans, as well as short term limited duration medical plans and student health plans.”.
The ACA definitely made progress in that regard, and prohibiting it on the individual marketplace and the small group market takes care of a huge swath of the market. All the blurbs seem to say the same point “Beginning in 2014, the ACA will prohibit new plans in the individual and small group market from charging women higher premiums simply because of their gender (a.k.a., gender rating). ” But if it was universal, why would Rhode Island bother introducing a bill in 2020? and why not mention the large group market? (). I feel like states had to take action to close the loopholes, which means it’s more inconsistent.
It's my understanding this is no longer true. My understanding is that since ACA health care plans cannot charge different rates based on gender, regardless of whether it's an individual plan or employer-sponsored plan. Prior to that, my understanding was that insurers could charge employers (or at least smaller employers) different rates for females than males (for the reasons you suggested), but employment discrimination laws prohibited the employer from charging different rates to their employees for these employer-sponsored plans.
Smaller employers which predominantly have (or only have) female employees - since otherwise the employer could be charged more for the female employees' premiums and despite the company not being able to charge their female employees more than their male employees for the same plan, a direct result of a largely female workforce would be the females would pay more than they would if the employer's workforce had more men in it.
Is the insurance itself actually a group plan offered by the employer, or is the employer offering a medical reimbursement plan, and providing premiums as examples?