Before I begin, full disclosure: I’m not a historian. Rather, I’m a political scientist who studies representation, including gender representation, albeit mostly in advanced democracies. As such I’m able to speak to broad trends of the history of women’s representation, but I may miss some finer points about specific cases, and will am basing my answer off of political science rather than historical research.
To begin, it’s important to make a distinction between the representation of women overall, and women as head of government/head of state. While the United States has never had a woman as president, unlike the examples you mention, it actually performs better in terms of the percentage of women in its federal legislature (although it is still very far from parity). The factors that determine these two things are also fairly different, as women’s legislative representation his heavily influenced by factors such as the presence of quotas (which Pakistan and Bangladesh both have in the form of reserved seats)(Hughes 2011), levels of corruption (corruption generally inhibits women’s representation (Stockemer 2011; Swamy et al. 2001)), and parties’ political recruitment practices(Bjarnegård 2013; Norris and Lovenduski 1995).
It’s also important to note that, contrary to popular belief, discrimination by voters is actually not well-established as a major barrier to women’s representation, at least in advanced western democracies (Sevi, Arel-Bundock, and Blais 2019; Darcy and Schramm 1977). By and large, women receive more-or-less the same number of votes as their male counterparts, although there is some debate as to if women need to be more qualified in order to get the chance to run (Fulton 2012; Black and Erickson 2003). As such, even accepting that the US is more gender egalitarian, this doesn’t necessarily address all of women’s barriers to entry in politics.
Beyond this, the parliamentary systems used in these countries have been pointed to by many scholars as more favourable to electing female leaders, for a number of reasons (Jalalzai 2018). Among these are greater hesitancy women may have to enter a primary race in a presidential system (such as the US), and way that political parties can better mitigate gender discrimination in a parliamentary system.
A final factor pointed to in the literature to explain women’s rise to power in South/South-East Asian countries, and indeed around the world, has been response to political crises. Many female leaders have come to power in the wake of an assassination, corruption scandal, or other political event that calls for dramatic and visible change. In these situations, female politicians can capitalise on many gender stereotypes (women as nurturing, as virtuous, as mothering, etc) and political parties can use a female leader to demonstrate their commitment to real change. This goes hand-in-hand with parliamentary systems, as it is much easier to replace a prime minister than it is to replace a US president, due to the latter’s very fixed election cycle.
In conclusion, I hope this answer isn’t too dissatisfying. Explaining women’s representation is a very complex topic, particularly in attempting to explain why something didn’t happen (in the US case). Hopefully an actual historian will be able to come along and provide more detail on the particular female leaders of the countries you mention in your question.
Sheikh Hasina is the Prime Minister of Bangladesh. She is also the daughter of Bangladesh's first President and "founding father" Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Her father was assassinated in 1975.
Hughes, Melanie M. 2011. ‘Intersectionality, Quotas, and Minority Women’s Political Representation Worldwide’. American Political Science Review 105 (3): 604–20.
All this said though, you are indeed hitting on a real phenomenon. “In the post World War II period only fifty women have been elected heads of state of their respective countries. Of these fifty women, eleven have come from South and Southeast Asia”(Wijekoon 2000). The reasons for this, unfortunately, are a bit murky, but there’s a few factors we can point to. First, it’s worth noting the role of family dynasty in all of this. For example, India’s Indira Gandhi and Pakistan’s Benazir Bhutto both are the daughters of prime ministers. Wijekoon’s article places a fair deal of emphasis on this factor, arguing that the political culture of South/South-East Asia is very amenable to political dynasties.
Another leader was Korean President, Park Geun-hye. Her father was the President (dictator) of Korea from 1963 to 1979, the year he was assassinated.
This seems to be a theme- be an early leader in your country's development post colonization or civil war, get assassinated, 30 years later, your daughter leads the country.
The sort of field you describe would likely lead to similar career paths, and at the graduate level at least the research skills you acquire can be more broadly useful as well, so best of luck!
The obvious question remaining here is why is it that a woman (other than Kim Campbell of course) was never given that chance? And to be honest, I'm not sure I have a good answer on that, but I'm very curious to know if anyone more familiar with (in particular) the Liberal Party of Canada's history has an explanation for why they've never had a female leader.