That's Russia's MO. Abkhazia and South Ossetia are also depopulated, as is now the Donbas region. They don't care about people, Russian or not, they care about territories and influence.
Yeah, it was kind of bleak and seemed like it was stuck in a time warp. I visited Bender and Tiraspol. Tiraspol looked like a pretty nice city and had lots of cool Soviet monuments, but Bender seemed almost semi-abandoned in some areas. I remember visiting the Bender train station and the tour guide said it looked the same as during Soviet times. Half the lights were off, no one else was in the station and apparently, the train only ran a few times a week. The rural areas we drove around also looked semi-abandoned. I saw a few old Volgas still on the road.
I suspect that Ukraine will help if it comes down to the military option. At the very least, they could provide direct support and air defense.
Also, rusia won't have the ability to supply them with anything once the fight starts, that includes food/water/munitions. Offer them a safe way back to russia and take it back.
Willing to fight for russia, before they attacked Ukraine and willing to die for Russia, now that they see a united West/EU is totally different. Unlike people in russia, Moldova has non-russian news and they can read/see what is going on.
I think that the only way that Transnistria survives is if Russia can push to the border of Moldova. That's not very likely. Unless they can push to Moldova, the place is doomed.
Yeah, I agree that that negotiating them out is probably the best option. Best as in 'most optimal' but, it's not really the easiest or most likely option.
The don't need to do that at all, they just need to fly their aircraft over the black sea and into Moldova. Moldova won't be able to do it alone. They won't have to anyway. They have a willing ally right next door who would love to show the Russians and the separatists the reality that they're facing.
It's just as close a translation to their actual name as it was possible in English. Their name is Pridnestrovye, literally Around the Dniester River.