Yes. You have to fill out FASFA and they will decide if you qualify for subsidized or I subsidized student loans. Colleges want you to fill this out before they will decide what financial aid they are offering to you. You can apply without FASFA but the college may not send you a financial package.
No, your school principal cannot withhold your transcript because of a delay in the FAFSA. This may be an overzealous attempt on their part to get your family to complete the FAFSA.
Is the college requiring that you get and send the transcript, or will they do it on their own? I went through this 12 years ago - but we didn’t have to request transcripts for each application. The university handled transcript requests.
1) Contact your school district superintendent and ask for assistance getting your official transcript sent. Your school district is not allowed to withhold a transcript as a FAFSA incentive. If your parents are willing, ask them to make the phone call- the district may respond slightly faster to a parent call.
2) Contact your prospective college admissions department. Most have phone or chat support and chat may get you a faster response during admission crunch season. Explain the FAFSA situation and ask for their advice. It's very common for students to be unable to complete a FAFSA due to lack of parent cooperation so most schools have a procedure for processing your application in the meantime. Note that the FAFSA is NOT required for admission to most schools, but schools lever on students to do it by withholding merit aid.
So she can withhold my transcripts? How can I apply then? What I’m saying is I already know I’m not going to get any financial aid, so the college not sending me a package isn’t going to surprise me when I don’t do the FAFSA. But how can my high school principal refuse to send my transcripts out?
Public or private? Do you have a guidance counselor who can intervene? If it’s public, the superintendents office should be contacted.
No colleges take a photocopied transcript, they all will want the sealed envelope or encrypted pdf. I’m not sure how your principal discovered that fasfa was incomplete - it never goes to the high school as far as I know. The deadline is literally June 30, 2022 - no college needs it for early decision/admits.
This cheeky kid would go in the next day and say “Fasfa’s done mom did it last night, y’all can send em”. Nothing on the form involves the high school. It’s filled out by the student/parent and sent on to the Fed’s.
Thanks. I will go to the superintendent next. My parents have been with me on this, we just weren’t really sure if what my principal was saying was the truth.
Public school. My school board fired our guidance counselor last year and now the principal (same person in question here) is also titled guidance counselor.
She knows we didn’t do the FAFSA because when I asked her to send my transcripts, she simply asked me if I had filled out the FAFSA and I had said no. Some of the schools I’m applying to request the transcripts and some just require me to have them sent. I’m not sure if any of the schools have requested yet, but from what I’ve gathered, it sounds like she won’t respond to those requests until I fill out the FAFSA. I’m not really sure why she’s so set in me doing this.
Proof of what, though? It’s a stack of paper you mail or submit online to the Fed’s. Whatever’s contained in the form is absolutely none of her business - so she has no need to review it before you submit it. If she wants to call home and ask, just tell the parents to say the same thing.