They vote not just for a president but the ideas he promotes. Again it just can't handle other forms of democracies and people's desires for its not western right?
Those are other forms of democracies besides just the western ones. Why you refuse peoples freedom in picking what kind of democracy they want and president? Fujimori the dictator who even western institutions admit he used unfair election unlike Pedro Castillo? "Today the OAS is facing a big test of its commitment to act collectively to protect and promote democratic values and human rights. Peru has just concluded a presidential election with a single candidate, which was plagued by irregularities. In the words of the OAS electoral mission, the election was "far from free and fair," and does not represent the "authentic popular will" of the Peruvian people." "In all the meetings, the OAS Mission has expressed that it observed a positive electoral process, in which substantive improvements were registered between the first and second rounds. Likewise, that the Mission has not detected serious irregularities.".
Long live authoritarian rulers who controll all aspects of the states because obviously that´s what Peruvians want, release Pedro Castillo and give him the powers to make all the laws that he wants without supervision, give him total control over the military and police, destroy the courts and screw the constitution.
many in Perú don´t want Castillo back, neither they want the new president, the want presidencial elections, after all, they didn´t choose her, She was put as vice-president by Castillo and they are both from the same party, It´s logical to at least for the goverment to renew the democratic mandate and restore order choosing a new president.
the people choose castillo as president, not to be a dictator, nobody can use the excuse of "the voice of the people" to close democratic institutions and absorve It´s powers, also there is something that you need to know, Castillo is against same sex marriage and abortion, Is It also the will of the people to prohibit abortion or homosexual relationships?
You admitted the people choosed him. You just can't handle other forms of democracies besides Western democracies? Also yes sometimes people choose those things no LGBT or abortions. Religion population supression or how african American believe abortion kills more blacks than anything else. Again you know democracy is about what the people want not what you want?
Again democracy is about what the people want, they wanted him not the new president. Do you think you know what's better for the Peruvian people than the Peruvian people themselves?