The Spanish drew many parallels between (Iberian) Muslims and America's native populations. They perceived the previously unknown lands and their inhabitants in relation to what they knew from Europe - as we tend to look for the familiar when confronted with the unknown. This meant especially applying institutions and negative views of the Muslims developed during the centuries-long Iberian so-called "reconquista" - wars between Iberian Christian and Muslim states - to the new Spanish overseas possessions.
Muldoon, James. ‘John Wyclif and the Rights of the Infidels: The Requerimiento Re-Examined’. The Americas 36, no. 3 (1980): 301–16.
Furthermore, for accounts of the conquest scholars like Anthony Pagden have shown that descriptions of the Spaniards' first impressions of the Aztec capital city Tenochtitlan were modelled on accounts of the Catholic Kings' conquest of Muslim Granada; and that the fictionalised speech reproduced by Cortés to show Moctezuma's “donation” of the Aztec realm to the Spanish emperor has medieval Castilian precedents.
If you have access to JSTOR or another database, J.H. Elliot's "The mental world of Hernan Cortes" explains much about his upbringing and encounter with indigenous Americans. Conversely, if you do not have access to a database, I can provide my copy.
With that in mind, it seems less surprising that Spanish explorers - often veterans of the reconquista, but if not then definitely steeped in a deep awareness of it - would immediately start comparing this new 'other' of Native Americans to the other they had been battling in a holy war for over half a millennium. Just as they took Spain (back) from the Moors for Monarch, Pope, and God, they would take this New World from its barbaric inhabitants and expand Christendom. These aims apparently did not conflict with more rapacious ones of personal gain; Weber, for example, details one soldier in Mexico who explained that Spaniards left for the New World ‘to serve God and his Majesty, to give light to those who were in the darkness and to grow rich as all men desire to do.’ Indeed, he even describes the reconquest of Iberia as the 'crucible' in which this conquistador mindset was forged.