You may want to contact your local police dept (in the area where you lived with your ex) just to let them know if someone, specifically your ex tries to file a missing persons that you are not missing and safe. Once he finds out you left he may go to the police and act like your a missing person in order to track you down. Giving them a heads up to let them know you are not missing and that if your ex puts in a report he’s doing it to find you and that you are afraid for your safety. Wishing you all the best.
(1) The Texas State Law Library has very helpful information related to all aspects of divorce in Texas here: In particular, note that Texas is what's known as a 'community property' state, which means that generally speaking property and money obtained during the marriage legally belongs to both spouses.
My goodness. What happened to his personal property? And the landlord allowed you to unilaterally end the tenancy and lease? You should, of course, speak to a divorce attorney before he returns, the sooner the better. Good luck.
If you want to file on grounds of bigamy, or argue that the marriage was never valid in the first place (which might offer you some protection from other issues you’ve raised), you’ll need a copy of his other marriage certificate or proof of the other wedding at least. You could subpeona the photos from Facebook page, but that’s not ideal in terms of clear evidence. Ask your lawyer about the process of getting records from the other country. Maybe this anonymous email person could get you a copy?
In theory it's possible that what you did could be held against you, you essentially booted him from the marital home (though it's possible it wasn't really the marital home after all) and if his possessions are lost or destroyed, their value could be something you're responsible for, but in the overall scheme of things, in the macro, it seems unlikely that a court would hold that against you. You didn't do anything intentional (didn't burn all his possessions or intentionally get the car towed). What you should have/may still want to do is to give him a 30-day notice to vacate, but that might be escaped steam at this point, let your attorney know.