Can I get some clarification on something I’ve always had trouble understanding? Serious question not messing around, so I’m sorry if I seem like an idiot.
We have literally written letters stating that this would eventually happen, the Soviets started intensive military industry development and production soon after the revolution because they knew it would happen sometime in the future, from 1933 to 1939 the military spending by USSR incresed 40 fold.
No. is a term for the very specific and unique culture of Black Americans who are descended from slaves. A person from South Africa who emigrated to the US is just a South African.
Seriously? He's rumored to be out of control even by Russian lickspittle standards. If the entire rest of the Kremlin thinks he's a lush, he must be going hard as fuck.
Because that is history, just for comparison, Germany lost around 5 million soldiers, and Japan, with less population than both US and UK, lost 2,4 million soldiers, the war was about those people, US and UK just won the propaganda game, the data we have can't lie in favor of those two, it's impossible to study history as it is and not seeing that, unfortunately, UK and US was playing games instead of actually fighting the war like the soviets did.
URSS lost around 8 million soldiers in WW2, it was the "standard view" at time that the Soviets won WW2, but US won the cold war and did the dirt job, games, series, films, everything showing how US and Allies won the war, never saying who trully stopped Nazis from winning.
US and UK were completely fine with URSS being destroyed by nazis, it was a win win, it's literally history that the governments wished that, nonetheless the military looses of those two combined is around 800 thousand men lost.
You have to be blind or really degenerate to believe that the Nazis lost 5 million soldiers, Japan lost 2,4 million soldiers, and US plus UK lost just 800 thousand solders because they were the only nations with surprising godlike tatics and equipment, you truly believe this?
Yup. They get big mad when you remind them how many Studebaker trucks got sent to the Eastern Front. But they never really did give up the human Zerg rush approach to warfare, did they.