So there we have it then. In the Fall of 1941 as Operation Barbarossa tore its way towards Moscow, the Allies communicated chiefly through their new conduit in Iran, but also through diplomatic missions which made the dangerous voyage through the North Sea by Royal Navy vessel and down to the Kremlin by train. It is these missions I might direct you to investigate further yourself, as they provide a clear geopolitical image of London being the "middle-man" between Uncle Sam and Uncle Joe for the majority of the war. To that end, I have attached alongside the sources below some further reading on those diplomatic efforts (each successes and failures in their own right). I hope my answer has somewhat (or maybe fully) answered your question! Feel free to enquire further about anything mentioned here.
(ETA - of course this all boils down to what we mean by "communications", but I'm mostly writing to say that this wasn't a completely blocked-off channel, although admittedly very little if any official government-to-government communication would travel this way, especially between Britain and the Soviets).
1. "The Changing Course of British Foreign Policy: Anthony Eden's Visit to Moscow, December 1941". by David Hall ().
In fairness, this was an exceptionally difficult passage to cross, but it was utlitized as a communications and transport route (as was, believe it or not, a "Northern Route" along the Arctic Ocean coast of the USSR).
4. "The Persian Corridor and Aid to Russia: The United States Army in World War II". by T.H Vail Motter (very comprehensive on Tehran, includes a section on signal communications, and more of a primary source, published in 1952. ).
So very similar to the answer above, there was a preference for using the Middle East and Tehran as a transit, at least for high-level diplomatic delegates traveling by air, but it was not unheard-of to use naval transports via the North Atlantic.
3. "From Sevastopol to Sukhumi - and back again: British naval liaison in action with the Red Navy in the Black Sea, 1941-1945". by Martin H. Folly ().