If I'm understanding your question correctly, it seems like you're asking if the losses of the First World War were indeed the product of antiquated tactics against new weapons.
Oh, absolutely. I've used accounts by Arthur Salter, Maurice Hankey, and others in much the same way.
Not to mention, by completely surrendering initiative to the enemy, they'd just invite the enemy to calmly and methodically invent the very methods of attack you mention, including better tactics, innovative weapons (be it tanks, underground mines, bombers, gas and effective methods of its delivery, bio warfare), or any number of other tricks both known by us or invented in the calm of the unheard-of stalemate.
Well. If you should ever change your mind and decide to brave the dangerous and subversive modern historiography, there are worse places to start than . Good luck! =).
If you look at the development of fortifications for example, people have put a ton of thought on how to place cannons or archers in positions where they can inflict maximum damage and be as protected as possible, and dozens of cunning geometrical tricks to channel attackers into disadvantaged positions. They needed to build that base of knowledge with a "fast firing rifle caliber thing" — since there wasn't any.
For example, they didn't even yet know how to classify it — is it a kind of cannon but very fast instead of high caliber? If so, it should be in its own units (artillery batteries), operated by artillery crewmen, deployed like artillery on demand from infantry on the high level, and do "missions" on orders from high-ranked officers. That was the tactic many armies tended towards regarding machine guns, because they sure looked like a particular kind of specialized artillery, especially early on. (True portable machine guns were still in the very experimental early phase.).
I remember reading and hearing multiple times that at the start of WW1 the French infantry wasn't wearing helmets and their uniform was very bright-coloured (red-blue) and very easy to spot, which led to a lot of casualties when they met a proverbial "machine gun" and trench warfare, and shortly after they introduced more modern-looking uniform that included helmets and less detectable uniform color.
The short answer is no. This is a misconception that has its origins in the lions led by donkeys myth of the 1930s. I won't go deep into the historiography of the issue here, but it's sufficient to say that academic historians of the past twenty or so years have revised their ideas about the interplay of tactics and weapons leading up to the war and during the war itself.