To hit this one briefly, they were not just aware of it, they were benefitting from it. The Lend Lease Act was a big escalation in our non-military involvement in the war. The act gave...
I know to some degree they felt that had no choice due to the sanctions, and the cultural impact on decision making can’t be discounted, but with such prominent military members making such bleak predictions about their potential success in a war with the US, how in the world could those who wanted war defend their logic/position?
Of course, this is fractally wrong. For all the Call of Duty fanboi-ing, almost all of the high-technology weapons that the Nazis produced were a complete waste of time, money and resources. They couldn't make enough of them, they couldn't operate enough of even those that they made, and in almost every case they were the wrong solution to the wrong problem. Conversely, a lot of the weapons that the Americans manufactured were actually little more complex than refrigerators and razor blades (both of them things that actually require a fair amount of precision to do well) but were produced in such immense volumes it didn't matter. Even if you take at face value the claims that a Tiger tank was "worth" three/five/ten Sherman tanks, it doesn't matter: the US built just short of fifty thousand M4s, whereas there were fewer than two thousand Tigers built, about six thousand Panthers. Germany 1933-45 built a total of less than fifty thousand tanks; the Allies built close to two hundred thousand. Who cares if a few thousand of the German ones "invented the modern MBT?" They were not available in enough numbers to make any sort of difference.
Another important factor was the availability and development of Natural resources. By this time few things were more valuable than oil.
To restate: it is not that Germany failed to understand American manufacturing capability. It's that it didn't believe it mattered.
With few sources of domestic oil production, Japan could pull back on the Pan-asian policy, which the people in power had invested significant capital in, or double down (which included capturing resource rich areas of SE Asia).
You can see this all the way through the war. Their response to the T34 -- a crude, mass-produced tank -- was the complex, elegant Panther, produced in small numbers with insufficient spare parts. It didn't matter that it was an elegant solution to a problem they didn't have ("design the ideal post-war universal tank"): they had set out to copy the cheap-to-make T34 and ended up with a complex, difficult to maintain nightmare whose military significance was approximately zero.
Just a pedantic note on your oil production figures. I think they are far too small. I think they are probably in millions of metric tons, or tons per captia. 182 metric tons of crude oil would fit in a 6 meters to a side.