Presumed scenario goes, IIRC: "Hey, that's my bank data you're not allowed to access it without subpeona" except bank says "yo, your account is set up with free for all on privacy data. you were alerted and signed papers saying it was OK to share your data. you should've read the fine print".
The Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act and it’s implementing regulations impose very specific “Customer Identification Program”, “Know Your Customer”, and anti-money laundering (“AML”) rules that banks must comply with in order to establish snd maintain an “account relationship” with each customer. The basic purpose of the BSA is stopping money laundering and denying criminals, terrorist organizations (such as Al Qaeda immediately prior to 9/11 in the US), and politically sanctioned individuals and business entities access to the US and global financial system. To establish an account relationship with a bank, frontline teller staff are required to obtain and verify documentary evidence of each individual customer and legal entity customer, such as a government issued photo ID for a person or articles of incorporation for a business, which would demonstrate that the customer is who he/she/it says it is. This information is recorded, maintained by the bank, and disclosed to the bank’s supervisory regulators upon request or during regulatory audits. There are very specific protocols about what a frontline teller staff member should do if they feel a customer is suspicious from a BSA/AML perspective, however, it’s common for frontline teller staff to be overly suspicious of customers or to get jumpy in certain interactions due to an urge to not want to disobey the law or fail to follow company policies and procedures. To me, based on your account of the incident, it appears this bank teller was spooked for whatever reason. If money laundering was a concern, the first thing a police officer would want to do would be to confirm the potential suspect’s identity via a valid government photo ID. Also, there’s probably little recourse that you have against the police for taking a photo of your ID, because (1) it occurred in a place that was open to the public for business where you have no expectation of privacy, and (2) federal law requires your bank to have a government photo ID of you on file anyway as a prerequisite to opening any bank account. So the cop was likely just trying to take a picture of something the bank should have already had on file. Banks are basically immune from suit for reasonable activities made in good faith trying to comply with the requirements of the BSA … You likely just got a jumpy and maybe a bit unprofessional teller, but if your concern is that the cops have a picture of your ID - the Feds already had access to it when you opened the bank account.
How does that help me? They investigate themselves and do or don't find any wrongdoing. They will sweep it under the rug and maybe say sorry. Meanwhile I go through the hassle of reporting it, getting the run around, switching banks, and worrying what this cop wants to do with my information.