But how to create rich Turks? The CUP's policies, to a non-negligible extent inadvertently, led to the enrichment of a small group of individuals close to the party during the war, through imaginable methods. When the CUP left the wheel, one could hardly say that the Turkification in the economy was complete. Initially, Kemalists applied methods that might be roughly described as liberal. The main event of this period was, arguably, the İzmir Economics Congress in 1923, during which some liberal points combined with 'solidaristic views' were formulated. With the advent of the Great Depression in 1929, this changed, as in most of the world at the time. With many countries turning inwards, Turkey too felt the need to revise its economic policies. A new formulation emerged in a speech of İsmet İnönü, the Prime Minister, in 1930: mutedil devletçilik, meaning 'moderate étatism'. Within a few years, the term became simpler and was incorporated into the Republican People's Party's programmes and eventually to the Constitution as one of the six principles of Atatürk (the six arrows that you can still see on the RPP's party logo). What exactly did étatism mean, though?
He mostly had a balanced economic policy, but he was very ambitious in his talks about economic solidarity and independence, concerning that he was very ambitious in his development programs, the integration of the banks, increasing foreign cooperation and investments, funding projects and more. Safely assuming, Mustafa Kemal was moderate as having a laissez-faire minister known as Celal Bayar. Mustafa Kemal, also valued the people too, beginning welfare payments, security, stimulus and more.More on the foreign investments, they were regulated to make sure that no single private company or foreign associations dare interrupt the economic independence as said from the standpoint of the OPDA, which took a huge chunk of turkish finances. The form of statism/etatism which was displayed by the CHP government is that there was still places for Private Enterprises, which were being financed. Mustafa Kemal pursued a doctrine of moderate economic policies, although in the later decades siding with the bayarist viewpoints.