You see the topic of race in Mexico is very complex, given that in colonial times the people with more power were peninsulars as they were called (that came from the peninsula of spain and portugal) if you were born in Mexico but you had peninsular blood you were called criollo and native indians well, they were called indians or their respective ethnic name.
It is far more complex than that, as you just mention it depends on who tells you because the country is very diverse, people with notorious indigenous phenotypes had the short end of the straw for many years in this country and being eurodescendent was seen as the goal for many mexicans over the post-colonial years, causing miscenegation to be one of the ways of achieving that.
This may not be the way we look it now, but it was for many centuries and we can still see the issue today as Mexico is a divided nation, there is not a mexican identity due to years of admixture and so many cultures of the pre-colonial times.
It was until the mexican revolution that indians on the south and people from the north (mestizos mostly but had more european blood than indian) fighted for their rights of owning the land they worked and were fed up from the government (there were other more complex reasons of political dispute, but this is the heroic bronze history tale that we mexicans learn at school).
Thank you for this comprehensive answer! The text is perfectly readable. And it certainly answered my lingering questions.
I live in northern Mexico very close to the US, i was in private school where most people (as i am) where white or had majority european blood, so when they taught us pre-colonial history often you saw white kids saying that they were descendants from aztecs, which they clearly were not as my city was founded by europeans settlers of sephardic jew blood, the indian population were savage nomads who either left or were exterminated since they were violent towards the europeans and would ravage the settlements, however nowadays a lot of people from all over the country have come over and changed the landscaped of the city in the last 30 years.
Thanks for the response! It’s interesting to hear that racial lines are very blurred because I’ve heard from other Mexicans that there’s a caste system in place. I’m not doubting what you said, of course, but just commenting on how different people view Mexico.