Hi there, I do not have an answer around 'the Project for the New American Century" as my political experience is more UK-centric.
Very interesting. What is the source for bin Laden's meeting with the head of Saudi intelligence? More generally, if I wanted to do more reading about this, what would you recommend?
‘The Parties agree that an armed attack against one or more of them in Europe or North America shall be considered an attack against them all and consequently they agree that, if such an armed attack occurs, each of them, in exercise of the right of individual or collective self-defence recognised by Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, will assist the Party or Parties so attacked by taking forthwith, individually and in concert with the other Parties, such action as it deems necessary, including the use of armed force, to restore and maintain the security of the North Atlantic area.’.
Draper, Robert. To Start a War: How the Bush Administration Took America into Iraq. Penguin Books, 2020.
The Bush administration, particularly in response to the September 11th attacks on the Twin Towers, advocated a position on national ‘self-defence’ which drastically altered the system of international relations. The 2002 National Security Strategy, was the culmination of what is more generally referred to as ‘The Bush Doctrine’; ‘a \[US-centric\] view towards the widening of the conventional right of self-defence so as to include taking traditionally unlawful uni-lateral pre-emptive military action against the ‘new’ threats of global terrorism and weapons of mass destruction.’.
The Bush Doctrine and US foreign policy approaches towards the war in Iraq sought to assimilate the language of Article 51 of the UN charter and Article 5 of NATO’s Washinon Treaty to legitimise pre-emptive action whilst avoiding accusations of the violation of sovereignty.
Similarly, support from across the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation swiftly provided both troops, mainly from western nations, and access to Afghanistan through the airspace and facilities of the neighbouring nations, without any challenge to the notion that the pre-emptive action of the United States constituted self-defence.
Rumsfield & Chaney in particular were Bush Snr.'s leads on Desert Storm, whose original goal was to carry on to Baghdad & overthrow Saddam.
Wolfowitz shared these views with other officials in both the Reagan and first Bush administrations, including I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby, who worked with Wolfowitz in senior roles in the Pentagon during the first Bush administration under then-Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney, who he later hired Libby as both his chief of staff and national security advisor when Cheney assumed the Vice Presidency; Richard Perle; who served as an Assistant Secretary of Defense under Reagan while Wolfowitz was an Assistant Secretary of State, and who later chaired the Defense Policy Board, a senior advisory body to the Pentagon, during the second Bush administration; and Douglas Feith, who likewise served in mid-level to senior national security roles in the Reagan and Bush 41 administrations before he was made Undersecretary of Defense for Policy under Rumsfeld and Wolfowitz in the Bush 43 administration.
Part of the context was that the Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz had long considered Iraq under Saddam Hussein a major threat to the Middle East and to American interests, going back to the Carter administration in which Wolfowitz had served (yes, Wolfowitz was a Democrat prior to the election of Ronald Reagan, in whose administration he also served, along with that of George H.W. Bush). Wolfowitz was convinced that Saddam's Iraq, with its military power and its support of Palestinian terrorist group was a major threat to the Middle East's stability, especially after Iraq invaded Iran in 1980---unlike many American policymakers at the time, Wolfowitz thought that the US supporting Saddam's war against the new Islamic Republic of Iran (if mostly covertly and by proxy via the Gulf monarchies) would be a dangerous mistake, and that the end result would be Saddam strenhening his regional hand in the Gulf, thereby turning his aggressive ambitions elsewhere - which is exactly what happened in 1990.
Not saying that's happened, but we won't have access to the sort of archival access that would let us know for some time. Just keep in mind, what we know about intelligence organizations and contacts comes with extra uncertainty.
It's worth remembering that in addition to being themselves fallible, as a rule intelligence sources can be quite intentional about what information they choose to share with contacts like Mr. Coll. Intel agencies are know of journalistic fact checking standards, and can and will engineer narratives.