To understand the goals of foreign powers in the Congo after its independence, we have to look at a fair bit of history.
The clash between the Congolese people and Belgian neocolonial efforts began on independence day. A Force Publique officer - a Belgian national - agitated his Congolese troops by insisting nothing had changed in terms of command and in doing so he sparked a mutiny. This mutiny soon spread through the country, and, instead of calling in Belgian soldiers to put down the mutiny, Lumumba dismissed the Belgian officers entirely. Lumumba worked to pacify the soldiers and was successful with units closer to the capital, but in much of the country, the mutinying soldiers exacted vengeance on the colonizers by targeting Belgian nationals and Belgian-owned property. A Congolese government divided between a more pro-Belgian Kasavubu and independent Lumumba did begrudgingly agree to Belgium sending in some troops, but by then it was too late.
With Lumumba dead and Mobutu temporarily in charge, a rapprochement began with the Congolese factions. Mobutu - himself working closely with the US - soon reinstated Kasavubu and the Soviets were ordered out of the country. With the independence-minded Lumumba out of the picture, the new government was much more amenable to American interests. But the rebel provinces remained at large. Worse, survivors of MNC had fled to Stanleyville and set up their own competing government, which was at this point leaning heavily into Soviet hands.
Though the UN forces had put down this first stage of the rebellion, the MNC remnants that had taken hold of Stanleyville would become known as the Simba rebels. Unlike the Katangans, they were a more populist and vaguely communist force, and they enjoyed the nominal support of the Soviets and overt support from Cuban internationalist forces. As the Simbas swept through the Eastern Congo, reports of atrocities against Westerners grew. Meanwhile, back in Leopoldville, a rapprochement had occurred between the government and former rebel Tshombe. Tshombe was brought back into the government, and he called on the same mercenaries he relied on in Katanga to put down the Simbas. These mercenaries spearheaded an offensive that began pushing back the Simbas in 1964, and at the end of the year they would enter Stanleyville on the heels of US and Belgian paratroopers, who had made a surprise assault on the city (Operation Dragon Rogue) to rescue western hostages.
I strongly disagree about this. It was a Belgian initiative — the 30 year plan by professor Van Bilsen — which first lit the fuse about Congolese independence in 1955. Its openness in tone broke this soul-crushing myth among évolués that all Belgians agreed about Leopold’s vision about “bringing civilization”. Back then, Congolese self-confidence was SO low that this actually mattered a lot.