One might add (to answer the OP) here, that the loaned cognates of 'slave' in Swedish Danish and Norwegian, which entered the language in the late Middle Ages through Middle Low German, did not replace the native term 'træl' from Old Norse _þræll_. It's still in common use, with the domestic term mainly being used for slavery in north Europe and the latter for everywhere else and slavery in general. Not strictly though, and a lot of people (myself included) use both words in Norse contexts if only to emphasize they're the same thing, lest people think the native term is a euphemism.
As said in my answer here, the word was never entirely replaced; the direct descendant of Old Norse _þræll_, which is _træl_ remains a common term in Danish, Norwegian and Swedish. Mainly it's undergone a narrowing where _træl_ came to refer to the historic Scandinavian form and _slav_ came to be the principal term first for Transatlantic slavery (from the 1600s) but ultimately for slavery in general.
As I also said, _slavar_ ('slavs') as a word for Slavic peoples really only came about in Scandinavian languages in the Early Modern period as well (17th century) and isn't really much older than the term for slaves. Neighboring Slavic people were generally _venðr_ ('Wends') in Old Norse, and the closest thing to a term for 'Slav'. (although it was not used for instance to refer to Bulgarian, Old Norse _Bolgarar_).
Another basic problem here is that Old Norse did not any cognate of the word 'slav' as a term for Slavic peoples. That's an early modern loan (so the 'slave'-word is actually older in Scandinavian languages than 'slav'). The Viking Age term for the Slavic people of the south Baltic was _vinðr_ (euqating to _Wends_), but was also used for Slavic peoples farther away in Russia, and so could be seen as having a broader meaning roughly equivalent to 'Slavic'.
Yes. Arabic sources discuss the Rūs trading in Slav (Ṣaqāliba) slaves. Again, it's worth being cautious with ethnonyms. The Rūs were Norse-speakers with strong cultural ties to Sweden, but that doesn't necessarily make them 'Scandinavians' or 'Vikings'. And for Arabic-speakers, at least, Ṣaqāliba was a catch-all that could be used to describe many different northern peoples, sometimes even including the Rūs. Thorir Jonsson Hraundal has done some really interesting work on these sources. There's also a terrific book called by Mats Roslund, who uses everyday pottery to argue that people from Sweden imported women across the Baltic in the 900s.