Which brings me back to my original answer. Without a doubt the highest legal power was the Emperor's edict. However, as the Emperor never left Kyōto and in fact seldom left the palace, and with no military force directly answerable to him but a handful of palace guards, there was little way for the Emperor to enforce his orders. Yet at the same time, due to the power of tradition, culture, and religion, the Emperor's position was the most secure, as no one dared replace the imperial family who was see as the final, highest authority.
This was a fantastic read. It truly blows my mind how some are so knowledgeable about history. If I may ask a follow up: while watching the show I found it incredibly interesting that they were able to go into such detail about events that happened 500 years ago. How much of this is actually supported by primary sources and how much of the show is taking a record of troop movements and casualties and then adding a lot of editorialization? If it is all found in primary sources how did so much record keeping survive.
It's important to note that the outbreak of the Ōnin War was less due to the weakness of the Ashikaga as a clan, but that Ashikaga Yoshinori was assassinated at the height of his power, Ashikaga Yoshimasa becoming shōgun at only 13 years of age, a severe famine across Japan beginning in the late 1450s, and Yoshimasa not willing to pick a side and stick to his ruling in the local conflicts before the Ōnin, allowing them to coalesce together and grow out of control and magnified the structural problems of the bakufu.
Yeah, you are right, I don't know why I thought it was Imperial. I knew that the Uesugi and Ashikaga were related as were the Imagawa. Don't know why I didn't look that over better.
When Japan plunged into civil war, naturally legal authority became less important and personal authority took the front. You might notice that I have not once yet used the term Daimyō. That's because the term is basically a catch-all for powerful warlords of the provinces. The term originally just meant someone in charge of a large plot of land, with no legal definition of what was "large". Daimyō could be shugo, they could be shugodai, they could even be priest/monks or low-ranking branches of warriors. Perhaps the best demonstration of this is Oda Nobuhide and his son Nobunaga (at first). In the legal political hierarchy of Owari province, Oda Nobuhide was only a bureaucrat of the shugodai for the southern half of the province. But while legally Nobuhide was not even shugodai, his personal authority was such that he ran the entire province. Another facit of this personal power was that Daimyō often officially "retired" and passing the leadership of the clan to his son. Yet the real power often remained with the now-retired lord. This was done to ensure smooth succession, by the father passing the legal power to his son and allowing the son to build up his own personal power while the father used his own personal power to keep the clan in check in the mean time. However, it was not unusual for this to backfire resulting in father and son coming to blows.