Which is why countries are and have been turning elsewhere. Mexico is now getting a lot of China's former business.
>Mr Kishida continued: “I pointed out that the aggression against Ukraine is not only a European problem but also a challenge to the very rules and principles of the international community, and agreed with the heads of state and government that the G7 Hiroshima summit should demonstrate a strong will to uphold the international order, based on the rule of law.”.
2. Prevent China from militarily dominating Taiwan, signaling to ASEAN countries that the US is willing to go to bat for independent democracies in the region and enables the US to push for greater liberalization and integration in ASEAN under US assistance (which could and should include Taiwan), potentially promoting the resumption of IPTO, and ultimately protects freedom of navigation in the Pacific.
No, lol. Media had been purposely hyping up an "invasion" since i was a child. Generally, it's pure propaganda. Literally identical "China will invade Taiwan" articles over decades paired with the fact that it'd make Russia's disasterous war look like a cake walk in comparison makes me very confident it'll not happen any time soon if ever.
I disagree. An attack on Taiwan would be an attack on the global economy, and would trigger an allied response. It would be absolutely idiotic on China's part. An attack on Taiwan would also likely include Chinese attacks on US forces in Guam, South Korea, Japan, and potentially even Australia, making this a wide conflict with the most powerful militaries in the Pacific.
An attack on Taiwan would probably also see the death of Japan's Article 9 and see a fully remilitarized Japan, and potentially even push South Korea and Japan closer against a mutual threat. South Korea's been so irritated lately by China's NK proxy it's now considering publicly talking about Nuclear Weapons, which is another headache for China.
1. Allow China to militarily dominate Taiwan, which functions as a show of Chineze strenh in ASEAN and the wider Indo-Pacific, and effectively cedes freedom of navigation in the Pacific to China; or.
It's already begun. Problem is for China that the situation is mutual, if even not more dire their way. The US and it's allies have uncontested control of the world's oceans and feed and supply China. They could interdict and absolutely cripple shipping to China.