Siglo de Caudillos: Biografia Politica de Mexico (1810-1910). Enrique Krauze. 1994. ISBN-13: 978-9687723204.
Most of the US didn't want that, a small group of Polk supporters wanted a mega-southern-US which extended almost to Mexico City, the Yucatán peninsula, and Cuba; even fewer supporters wanted a complete annexation of Mexico. US' troops actually occupied both Californias, but deemed the peninsula safe and returned to fight in the north -- people in the peninsula rebelled and the US couldn't get its minimum deal, they didn't invade the peninsula again because southern tensions with the northern states were high. It really wasn't "so easy" the US took advantage of a series of situation that wouldn't have been present in another time, so if they waited there was a chance to lose what was already taken like Baja California; Polk and his contemporaries got to see in their youth the last period in which Mexico (as New Spain) was more developed and powerful than the US, they know that if they waited it would be harder, and if that happened at the same time that the Civil War, well...
On the second we enter on a matter of discussion. The Mexican government states that the US took (or even stole) the northern territories from Mexico but the truth is quite simple. After the independence Mexico held a centralist government (this changed after Mexico lost Texas in 1846), if any governor wanted to make a big decision then they had to consult with the President and the senate before committing any action. For states nearby Mexico City this was simple but for states like California, Texas, Guatemala, etc. the action of sending a message and receiving an answer took months so they were on themselves most of the time. Government help was scarce and the only ones that reached so far away from the center were catholic missions that most of the times failed. That is why when the US took over a lot of territories they had to deal with indigenous tribes and not with Mexican population. A lot of the sentiment of "the US stole land from Mexico" comes from the fact that today Texas, California, etc. are economic and cultural titans; is funny to see how these people never talk on how Mexico lost Belice or Guatemala, of course you can add many things to the table as the US is no saint and commited quite a few war crimes. So yes, Mexico only had a tenuous grasp on the lands that would be forfeited under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, I would even go so far as to say that Mexico did not lost any land as it was never truly theirs.
\- How accurate were US contentions that Mexico only had a tenuous grasp on the lands that would be forfeited under the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo?