It might come as interesting to you that recently (20th century) a whole new academic field emerged trying to answer questions just like yours. The field's name is memory studies. What differentiates it from history - which focuses on seeking objectivity, and determining facts based historical sources - is its focus on memory. Memory, meaning how people remember the past and how it influences the present. [1] The field is quite interdisciplinary, bordering history, sociology and psychology - in fact, it was French sociologist Maurice Halbwachs who in 1925 coined the term mémoire collective (collective memory) in his book Les Cadres Sociaux de la Memoire - attempting to tackle the problem how individual memories of members of the group create something greater than sum of its parts and how it can shape the group's identity. [2].
Lastly there was probably some nostalgia for sure: while part of the Soviet Union, one was a citizen of one of the two global superpowers, one of nearly 300 million people in a state that stretched across 12 time zones and had tens of thousands of nuclear weapons, controlled Eastern Europe and "advised" states across Africa, Latin America, and Asia. Soviet culture and science were respected, while Soviet athletes dominated at the Olympics and various World Championships. But when those citizens woke up and found themselves citizens of a new country like Kazakhstan, Moldova, or Belarus (none of which had ever really existed before), or even those who were in Russia, it was a big change. You're country was small, poor, and globally insignificant. No one feared the Kazakhstani military, or cared about Moldovan sports teams. Most of these countries could barely control their own borders, let alone project power outside of it, and while Russia took control of the nuclear arsenal, the only fear about that was if the Russian government could properly secure them and ensure rogue actors didn't get any.
My thoughts as well. While there I was involved with a Protestant church that had been active throughout the history of the Soviet Union, and they were also aware of the negatives for example having your kids taken away to be reeducated and general lack of freedoms, but its clear not all changes were for the better, it's been a mixed bag depending on your age, goals and beliefs.
That's definitely true. I did quickly mention the mafias a bit, but it does deserve a lot more attention. It's just something I am not familiar enough to get into great detail on, but you're point is true. Lots of people were forced to pay bribes and protection money, and even that wasn't enough.