Dressage is simply a French word that is generally translated into English as “training.” In older works on equitation the two words are used interchangeably. To “dress” a horse means to train a horse. We can define dressage in three ways, most narrowly as dressage the sport, which has been governed internationally by the Fédération Équestre Internationale (FEI) since 1921. More broadly, we can define dressage as an art, the classical traditions of which continue to be carried forward in Europe by the in Vienna, Austria; the in Saumer, France; the in Jerez, Spain; and the in Lisbon, Portugal. Most broadly, dressage is the foundation of all horsemanship. More than just sport or art, dressage is the means through which equestrians develop the horse’s physical capabilities, using systematic principles grounded in biomechanically sound training techniques to build up a balanced and supple animal that can succeed in the purpose to which it is put.
> Prestige have become easy game. Temerity a habit. Man imitates the bird, but freer than birds, since he loves neither his nest nor his end. He wants to go from nest to nest and from end to end, and from death to death. Let him go then […] There is nowadays one Italy who wants to live with its belly, bend its neck, to return beast, pasturing in the enclosed dark? But there is one Italy as well, who looks at the distant heights, far away, scouting the winds far off the coast […] This vigorous courageous adventurous Italy is real […] Once we gave pilots and captains to the whole world. Now we can give the whole world both wings and masters of the wings.
Another justification is for submission. Overbending the horse traps the horse, allowing the rider to gain control of the animal. The horse is put in a position where it has to surrender control of its balance to the rider. Since submission of the horse to the rider is yet another factor into the score of a dressage test, training a horse in Rollkür can produce a horse that doesn’t swish its tail, keeps a neutral expression, and appears to give quickly and completely to the rider’s aids. Indeed, this was Uphoff’s exact reasoning for riding Rembrandt deep. Her trainer, Harry Boldt, expanded on this reasoning:
The piece – dated to July 9^th 1919 – had been composed (this is, probably, the edited version of a speech) in the event of the new Ministry removing the restrictions on flight (which had been introduced by the previous military and civilian authorities due to the serious fuel and material shortages) and thus metaphorically and practically clearing the new aristocracy of the sky for takeoff, nearby that aviation field of Centocelle where the first “aerial demonstration” on and above Italian soil had been offered, little more than ten years before, by Wilbur Wright.
Raulwing, Peter. “The Kikkuli Text. Hittite Training Instructions for Chariot Horses in the Second Half of the 2nd Millennium B.C. and Their Interdisciplinary Context”.
In a far from unprecedented turn of events, I had hoped to cover more ground, but – again – busy week. Therefore this installment will amount to a sort of preliminary introduction to (the themes) of relatively recent interpretations of Fascism (and “fascism” as a broader cultural phenomenon) along the distinct but not unrelated lines of “aestheticization” and “sacralization” of politics.
Thirsk, Joan. “Horses in Early Modern England: For Service, for Pleasure, for Power.” The Rural Economy of England: Collected Essays.