One of the most recent academic biographies of Cleopatra in English is Duane Roller's Cleopatra: A life (2010). In the book, Roller elaborates on and argues for the theory that Cleopatra's mother was an Egyptian, specifically related to the Memphiite priesthood of Ptah.
The Ptolemies were in fact Macedonian Greek, which makes Cleopatra approximately as Egyptian as Elizabeth Taylor. (Schiff, p.2).
I tend to land on the side of those who suggest that _xwedodah_ originally referred to cousin marriage (which at least used to be the most common form of marriage in Iran even into the 20th century according to some scholars) and was expanded to include closer kin in the Achaemenid age due to Egyptian influences, personally.
Problem 2: This is a BIG one. We actually don't know how common sibling marriage was in Egypt prior to the Ptolemaic dynasty. Among the royal family, it appears to have been fairly uncommon and often between half-siblings rather than full siblings. That might sound like a silly distinction, but since half-sibling marriage was permitted in Greek states like Athens, we can't relegate it to a peculiar Egyptian practice. Evidence for sibling marriage among common people in Egypt is also typically found within the Roman period, and often among Greek and Hellenized families in Egypt. Most of the evidence comes from Greek authors, or is from the Roman period, after the Ptolemaic dynasty instead of before it. Analysis is complicated by the habit of using the same terms of endearment for siblings, spouses and other loved ones. There's a number of factors that might have caused an increase in sibling marriage during the Ptolemaic and Roman periods.
It was once assumed that the Ptolemaic dynasty adopted the practice of sibling marriage from the ancient Egyptians. On the surface, it looks like a huge coincidence, but digging a little deeper this becomes less clear. There are many factors that complicate this assumption that have since been pointed out by various historians.
This is a very insightful observation about popular history but it's based on some mistaken assumptions about the state of English scholarship. Although sometimes research and theories fails to take international attention among scholars, this was not the case with Werner Huß.