Now that we have a little bit of context in place, we can talk about some comparable works. Again, I do think the Book of Mormon is a bit of an outlier, just because it's so grand and complex of a literary achievement. Plus, it's still important today and regarded as scripture by the LDS church. But there were other similar works created in the 19th century by unlikely visionaries, prophets, and "outsider" religious leaders. One that immediately comes to mind are the writings of Ellen G. White, the founder of the Seventh-day Adventist church. She wrote prolifically throughout her lifetime about her visions of God and her interpretations of Christian doctrine (such as the idea that Christians should be vegetarians). Some titles by her include, Steps to Christ and The Desire of Ages. Today, these are still read alongside the Bible by Seventh-day Adventists as important religious texts. Another 19th century book that holds a similar status as scripture for a specific community is Mary Baker Eddy's Science and Health with Key to the Scriptures (1875). I don't know the exact number of words, but that thing is really, really, ridiculously long (a modern edition runs 700+ pages). Mary Baker Eddy founded the Christian Science movement. It's often confused with Scientology, but is something different. If you've ever been to a big city in the northern US, you'll usually find a Christian science "reading room" or a big fancy church called "Church of Christ, Scientist." This post is getting too long to explain her religious ideas fully, but basically Eddy taught a type of "mind cure" (that the mind/faith can cure all disease). Her writings in Science and Health are still highly regarded by Christian Scientists today. But in contrast to Mormonism, the Christian Science church has always been very small (never more than a few dozen thousand members). The Mormons have grown pretty consistently since the church was founded by Joseph Smith in 1830. Today, there are over 16 million Mormons.
This may be a little late, but I think what adds to Joseph Smith's success is that he didn't stop with the Book of Mormon, but also published other scriptures, such as the Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price, the first being essentially a guidebook of "modern revelation" to the Mormon community with alternating hyper-specific commandments as well as lofty and expansive theology, and the latter being similar to the Book of Mormon in being claimed to be ancient scripture, with even more lofty and unorthodox theology, claiming to be further revelation from ancient prophets such as Moses, Abraham, and Enoch. And in the Doctrine and Covenants case, more scripture was added to it even after Joseph Smith's death (albeit less than a half-dozen passages).
Yeah, definitely! Great point. One of the most appealing things about Mormonism for its early members (and still now) is its sense of progressive revelation. New scriptures can be revealed all the time. There’s a strong sense in the tradition that God still speaks today.