This is the best advice you’re going to get - judges do not like being ignored and while the police may feel their hands are tied with procedure, the judge will be free to ask your ex about these incidents and weigh their view of them moving forward on this case.
Change your number, and open new email accounts. Use those email accounts to open new social media accounts and set everything to private. Don’t use your name for the accounts, use the name of your great grandmother or other past relative then only add your 5-10 closest people to them, you don’t need the hundreds of friends and acquaintances for now. Deactivate all your other social media for the time being. Get LifeLock or another identity monitoring service. Let your employer and any one you spend a lot of time with what’s going on because once he can’t find you online he may start escalating to finding you in person. If you don’t already, get a security system for your home, and Life360 on your phone and add your parents or another trusted person so they always know where you are. The police really can’t do anything about online harassment so protect yourself and go as dark as you can online. Having gone through this with an ex, I completely understand how helpless and scared you feel right now. Do your best not to react outwardly to what’s going on, and concentrate on gathering evidence and protecting yourself. Good luck, friend.
Civil contempt is used by judges in family law cases to compel an individual to comply with the order without applying criminal charges or penalties. Often times you’ll see it if someone is refusing to pay child support or alimony or the like, the judge will either threaten or outright sentence them with civil contempt but it’s not always jail time, after all, can’t pay child support while in jail. In this case, I think civil contempt and sending him to jail for a few weeks might get him to take the order seriously.
Also asking the judge to consider a civil contempt charge. Don’t need the police for that and the judge holds the power to issue that at any time at their discretion. Not sure what the penalty is in California but here in Georgia it’s up to 20 days in a county jail. Not fun.