Penalization of the homosexuality between men in the Nazi Germany was primarily based on the article 175 of the German Criminal Code introduced in 1871 and stating that 'Sexual acts contrary to nature between men or between people and animals is punished with a jail time, additionally, a verdict may also include loss of honorable status'. This issue was a more or less a legal status quo in many western countries that kept similar or even severe provisions against homosexuality. The ardent opposition to the idea of homosexuality treated as a threat to the nation itself is, however, quite evident in the politics of NSDAP since the 1920s, what goes well beyond the will to uphold the existing law inherited from German Empire.
Thank you. I am not sure...it's that simple. I think based on the contagion idea, and some of the other earlier historic persecutions/laws I tend to see it as an attempt to use law as a lever to move culture and society. E.g. If you criminalize it, people will do it less, if they can.
Josef Meisinger, director of Reichszentrale zur Bekämpfung der Homosexualität und der Abtreibung (State Center for Elimination of Homosexuality and Abortion) that has been formed on 10th of October 1936 under the auspices of Gestapo stated that although homosexuality possibly originated in Asia and 'expanded' through Ancient Greece and Rome to the Germanic territory, it is a 'phenomenon' rather than a strictly medical condition and also supported theory that it is a psychological condition that can be developed only through the seduction by another homosexual and potentially remains under the conscious control of a healthy person. This was reflected in judicial practice. In general, court verdicts were based on the assumption that homosexuality is not a congenital trait and can only develop due to seduction and subsequent practice, while at the same time being possible to be completely suppressed by sheer will, especially in the case of well-educated people. Verdicts were sometimes stating explicitly, that the homosexual tendencies could not have been treated as extenuating circumstances, as they could have been suppressed by anyone who knew that they are unnatural and their expression in sexual acts were a crime, essentially treating all homosexual acts as premeditated criminal activity.
In general, homosexuality was not treated as a disease or contagion in the strict medical sense, but rather as a psychological anomaly that could have been elicited through 'seduction', largely understood as an exposure to homosexual behaviours and later strenhened by the active participation in the latter.
Thus, in this particular speech, Himmler did not meant that homosexuality to be a contagious disease in the literal sense, but presented an application of the 'birds of the feather' mechanism, implying that homosexuals holding any station, governmental or not, tend to surround themselves with other homosexuals regardless of their competency, what he considered a threat to the functioning of any organization. He also follows with the following characterization: 'Homosexual is an ultimate mentally sick person. He is weak and when faced with serious problem, he will always turn up a coward. I believe that such people can show appropriate hardiness during a war, but when it comes to the civil courage, they are the most cowardly lot in the whole world \[...\] It is caused by the fact, that homosexuals are compulsive liars, and they do not lie to achieve some clandestine goals \[...\] homosexual lies and completely believes in what he says' \[please note that the latter is similar to the sentiment Hitler held towards social democrats in the early chapters of 'Mein Kampf\].
Well, yes and no. Out of context, that is of course a completely logical conclusion to draw, but I think it's clear that they saw homosexuality as a condition which you could resist, and not just resist the act.