- He betrayed Ding Yuan and pledged fealty to Dong Zhuo, part of what was allowing Dong Zhuo to occupy the power vacuum created by the strife in Luoyang.
- He assassinated Dong Zhuo, perhaps in collaboration with Wang Yun, as the coalition was crumbling, and the aftermath of that was a major part of what enabled Cao Cao's rise to become the most powerful man in China.
After this, of course, Lü Bu basically becomes just another one of a bunch of minor warlords, and because of his notorious duplicity, he is eventually mopped up by the ascendant Cao Cao after the elimination of Yuan Shu as a major threat (Lü Bu, fool that he was, defected to Yuan Shu after the latter had been more or less reduced to the status of a minor warlord).
The appeal as has been mentioned is his strenh. Few warlords were noted for it and Lu Bu even among warriors was considered highly. It was his skills that caught Ding Yuan's attention, Chen Shou's SGZ notes (as well as the Wu's Caomanzhuan quoted by u///) "Bù was adept with bow and horse, his bodily strenh surpassed other men, and he was called Fēi-Jiāng “Flying General.”, his bravery and skill in the field (as well as unreliability) that saw Xun You urge Cao Cao to deal with Lu Bu early.
We get examples of his skill, the ability to dodge out of the way of Dong Zhuo's throwing axe, Wang Can's Yīngxióngjì has Lu Bu winning a rare duel with Guo Si, none of Yuan Shao's officers dared to pursue Lu Bu after failed assassination attempt. The archery feat to end a war between Yuan Shu and Liu Bei is possibly the most famous.
Lu Bu's army might also have helped put Yuan Shu's commander Ji Ling off but the focus is on the archery diplomacy.
The novel builds up to his big duel, first Hua Xiong being sent with Hua Xiong acknowledging he is lesser than Lu Bu but not worth sending the latter. Hua Xiong inflicts defeat after defeat on the coalition and their best warriors till Guan Yu kills him off-screen before the wine. If Hua Xiong is that mighty, how much mightier is Lu Bu? When Lu Bu enters the battlefield, the novel goes for.
The great warrior and the moment of romance both have an appeal while playing into the novel themes about Lu Bu.
Lu Bu also has one of the two big romances (both fictional in different ways) of the novel. It turns Lu Bu sleeping with someone (a maid in Dong Zhuo's quarters) he shouldn't have, making him uneasy into an elaborate plot by Wang Yun. Lu Bu falls head over heels for Wang Yun's maid and almost daughter Diao Chan, Wang Yun and the fictional Diao Chan use to drive a wedge between Lu Bu and Dong Zhuo. There is plotting, moments of sweetness and Lu Bu is turned by his heart/loins (other heroes of the novel like Guan Yu and Zhao Yun would never do such a thing), Diao Chan becoming one of the most famous females of the era.
There are many tales and traditions around Guan Yu indeed that evolved over time that the novel tapped into, your right to highlight the chaste restraint of Guan Yu when with Liu Bei's wives from the novel. I just don't see anything in the novel or the original texts this particularly dream tale came from that means it must have a sexual meaning rather any of the other themes around that tale. I would also be more convinced if Guan Yu had even likely met Liu Bei's current wives.