The lesson of these battles was that Persian or Persian-led infantry was unable to defeat Greek hoplites.
In other words, Persian infantry proved locally superior to Greek hoplites, even if they lost control of the battle as a whole.
Their inability to defeat Greek hoplites caused significant distress to the Persians and presented a credible threat to their empire.
Supplementary to the above is the idea that the Persians actually did respond to their defeats by seriously rethinking their battle tactics. There is a persistent theory that the scythed chariot - first seen on Near Eastern battlefields in 401 BC - was a Persian invention deliberately designed to break up Greek heavy infantry formations, so that the hoplites could more easily be run down by cavalry. Later on, accounts of the campaign of Alexander suggest the Persians established a corps of homegrown heavy spearmen, the kardakes (although their exact nature is unclear). Finally, their cavalry seems to have become more heavily armoured and more focused on shock tactics, especially after the encounter with Alexander's Companion cavalry. Taken together, these things suggest both an awareness of the shortcomings of their traditional way of war and an active and inventive attempt to make up for it. Unfortunately the evidence for all these new units is thin, and it is unclear whether they actually were responses to Greek hoplites. We have to be careful here - conflicts with the Greeks are the ones we know best, but not necessarily the ones that were foremost in the minds of Persian military thinkers.
Finally - and this is a point I already mentioned above - when we assume that the Persians should be more concerned about Greeks, and more inclined to respond to Greeks, than to any other people in their empire, we are showing our own biased perspective. Our source base is Greek, which prompts a bad case of what Sean Manning^1 has correctly identified as . The kings of Persia had many other things on their minds, including continuous wars to retain control of Egypt, as well as conflicts in Baktria and India about which we know next to nothing. When we think of the development of Persian military methods, we should be aware that we cannot know how large the Greeks loomed in their minds; it is quite possible that they did not think any of the things we learn about were particularly important at all until Alexander - suddenly and unexpectedly - proved to be an existential threat.
I don't understand what you mean here? The Persians lost at Marathon, despite having superior numbers even. And while they won at Thermopylae, I wouldn't say they overcame the Greek infantry, they outmaneuvered them.