If I may - I am also anorexic. I am in my mid-forties; I have had a serious intermittent eating disorder since I was \16. I am the same height as your sister, and will drop to about 80lbs when it gets severe, but by 100 am already pretty much a disaster of health issues and a trainwreck emotionally. So please know that even though mental health law is not my field of practice, this particular intersection is something I have paid a lot of attention to, and a topic I am deeply understanding of the concerns of both the patient and how it affects their family and loved ones. Watching in particular my husband suffering through the fear he would be widowed if I didn't get better is downright horrible for me to look back on, because I know how horrifically it was breaking his heart to watch.
IANAL. But I am a clinical psychologist. It is possible she could be involuntarily hospitalized as anorexia is a serious mental health problem. Anorexia, particularly successful anorexia, is also extremely dangerous medically which is potentially a secondary actionable avenue.
Hello, thank you for your response. I admit I was a little hesitant with the welfare check option because I know that police or EMS might not know how to properly handle her with her illness, but at this point I am willing to perhaps try. I've been told this before, and I really don't get it: how is someone who is starving themselves considered "sound of mind" or of rational mind? I get not involuntarily committing everyone who may have a mental illness, but she is actively hurting herself. I just don't get it.
As /u/Eeech noted in their thoughtful post, this kind of issue is a nexus of medical, psychiatric, and legal considerations, and often it takes a lenhy legal process to determine if the \legal\ definition of "sound mind" has been met, which is often the purpose of the 72-hour hold, to A) keep someone safe and B) explore the necessity of legal intervention. That's probably not the right wording, but the spirit of it as I understand it.
It is, unfortunately, bordering on the impossible to involuntarily hospitalize an anorexic person for any appreciable amount of time, even 72 hour emergency holds. It is effectively impossible to hospitalize someone for long enough to make a difference. It is also almost entirely ineffective to try.