In the post that /u/voyeur324 was able to find (thank you for that), I am going through old chronicles to demonstrate that terms derived from Bohemian and Czech did exist in at least German and Latin and in contemporary historical chronicles they were treated as synonyms, with the understanding that the term derived from Bohemian (or Boemian) was a more common variant even used by Czechs themselves when they wrote in Latin.
Thanks for the link, but especially the review from Naše řeč seems to suggest that the distinction between Bohemian and Czechs came quite late as a Czech/Bohemian German nationalistic reaction on the possibility that the Czech lands would split from the Austrian and as such never got quite the appeal of the majority, be it the majority of Germans who didn't really care about the Germans in the Czechoslovakia or the Czechs who didn't see the need to distinguish between Bohemians and Czechs as, after all as I or the Naše Řeč article points out, historically they are synonyms and the requirement to call the state differently than the etnicity living in there just because there is a minority is silly.
The dichotomy didn't evolve earlier than that. The first grammar of the Czech language was still called .
With the creation of dual monarchy of Austro-Hungary in 1867 came an ever increasing tension within the empire between its various nationalistic elements, with national identity becoming a source of political power and capital exploited by local politicians. The idea of slav or german was very much a poltical fiction up until it was not, as those destinctions were labels used by politcians to drive their own power bases within the empire. It was also used by the Vienna government as a means of plecating local populations within the disperate empire, allowing local languages to be used in the army, the civil service, and churches. Indeed, part of the 1867 compromise was that Hungarian and Czech would be the first languages of the regiments raised within their territories.
In the period 1815-1870 Bohemia, the land of the Czechs, was part of first the Austrian Empire and later the Austo-Hungarian Empire. Napoleon's nationalistic stirrings during his attempt to deal with the Austrian Empire inspired Czech nationalism, and in the 1815-1848 period there was a sustained effort to establish a Czech written culture to counter the pressures of German as the dominat langauage of the German centric Austrian court. Czech (as well as Slovenian and Hungarian) linguistic and cultural traditions were increasingly used as poltical tools by educated elites who desired more local controls, all the while Metternich tried in vein to suppress nationalism and liberalism.