This is an interesting question, and I was really hoping to see someone answer it fully. Being a mod, I have the unfortunate privilege of being able to see the removed comments, and while there are attempts to explain 'This is the origin of X state's name', it is unfortunate that no one really made an attempt to engage with what is being asked, that is to say, not simply "Why is Massachusetts called Massachusetts?" (and for which there are thousands of answers out there for the various locales from state level on down in this country) but more specifically "What does calling it Massachusetts say about the relationship between the white colonizers and the Massachusett people whose name is used?" I was hesitant to provide any response, because I don't have a direct answer, and was hoping someone would be able to talk specifically about place names in the United States in such terms. Thus I didn't post anything yesterday since I didn't want to dissuade someone from giving a deeper answer specifically about the physical geography and the legacy of indigenous place names in the American lexicon.
2. The physical element which includes five acts described in sections a, b, c, d and e. A crime must include both elements to be called "genocide.".
I build off of that in which specifically focuses on how those values came to be reflected in white society through the lens of the Scouting movement, and how while there was a veneer of respect, it was one which was entirely on white terms, and a respect for a specific stereotype that was in many ways simply a construction of the white imagination, and which saw the ultimate achievement as being the white man who was more "Indian" than the "Indian", the highest pantheon being figures like Davey Crocket or Daniel Boone, who could take those skills and perform them even better due to their supposed superior whiteness.
No. The U.N. framework is formulaic, meaning you need both the mental and the physical components to constitute genocide, both which center around the desire of one group of people to eradicate in whole or in part another specific group of people. Though this is getting more into international political science, historians regularly make use of the U.N. definition because it acts as a starting point for finding commonality in these often difficult and controversial subjects because the U.N. is generally understood to represent the world consensus on important matters.
Hello. We have banned several users in this thread for denial of the American Indian Genocide(s) that occurred in the Americas. This topic is often controversial and can lead to inaccurate information. This message is not intended to provide you or other readers here with all of the answers, but simply to address some of the facts, as well as genocide denialism in this regard, and provide a list of introductory reading. Because this topic covers a large area of study, actions of the United States will be highlighted. There is always more that can be said, but we hope this is a good starting point for you.
But being the next day and the question dropping off soon still unanswered, I can speak on the next level up about the connection between white American culture and "The Idea of the Indian", as it can be termed, which is in brief sum about how Americans adopted the symbolism of the original peoples and gave it its own meaning, often in a rather perverse way where it quite explicitly is found in ways that are intended to reflect a white nativist doctrine which of course entirely separates who is really reflected in those images from how they are being used. This is not an uncommon thing to find when looking at the culture of colonizers, something which I've written about before with , although of course it is a phenomenon which manifests itself in different ways in different places.
Yes. They are insane. They aren't any worse than those who openly cheer what happened on the basis of "we won", but they aren't any better either.
These actions took place over the entirety of the Americas, exacerbating the rapid depopulation of Indigenous Nations and communities. Exact figures of the population decline are inconclusive, giving us only estimates at best, with Pre-Columbian population numbers ranging anywhere from as low as 8 million to as high as 100 million inhabitants across North, Central, and South America. What we do know is that in the United States, records indicate the American Indian population had dropped to approximately 250,000 by 1900. Despite any debate about population statistics, the historical records and narratives conclude that, at least according to the U.N. definition, genocide was committed.
Article II: In the present convention, genocide means any of the following acts committed with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as such:
Since the conceptualization of the act of genocide, scholars have developed a variety of frameworks to evaluate instances that may be considered genocide. One of the more common frameworks is the definition and criteria implemented by the United Nations. The term "genocide," as coined by Raphael Lemkin in 1943, . The use of this term was further elaborated by.
I also pivot to the late 19th and early 20th centuries by which point the native peoples had been subjugated and forced into reservation life, and for most white Americans were an amorphous concept from the history books, or dime-store novels, resulting in a shifting 'Idea of the Indian' which reflected an idealized vision of masculinity, martial prowess, and rugged outdoorsmanship.
1. The mental element, meaning the "intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as such", and.