India and especially China INCREASED purchases from Russia. Europe reduced and now has just about eliminated purchases of Russian gas. They don't seem the same for anyone using a little thinking.
India opposed, requested and even loudly potested for Western nations to not invade and destroy Afghanistan and Iraq and yet Americans and many Europeans were so blinded by rage and greed that you have destroyed millions and killed millions across Middle East and when all those nations have turned to rubble, you left them abandoned only for poor survivors and poor nations around them left to gather themselves and survive.
No that is not true at all. Taiwan holds strong trade routes to asia\\japan. So basically Philippines, vietnam, Indonseia etc. A huge chain of islands.
Everyone expected after war started that Russia will go into Chinese Camp, which means India would have lost its strategic partner and time tested friend to China but India saved Russia by purchasing Russian oil and increasing its purchases looking at the cheap price they were offering and Russia became its top supplier with 0. something share, before India mostly bought from Iraq , Iran, Venuzuvela and Russian import were minimal until the instability caused by war.
Screw you for assuming i want them to be meat shields. My first post was simply asking a question i had no idea about the history of india and why they are supporting russia while they invaded and took a large proportion of ukraine after the treaty on top of murdering thousands of civilians.
I am still standing strong with my initial argument that the fucking actual invasion that happened in india in the 60s was over half a centry ago, and that border fight was not an actual large scale military invasion and was more a skirmish conflict unlike what we are seeing in ukraine. its not even comparable and i will stand by that.
China has claim over Mongolia(country below russia) and Russian territory so Russia knows that it can't trust China too much but they must get together because if they don't US will destroy them one by one because all 3 India, Russia and China are potential superpowers which can displace the US.
Also 1962 was over half a century ago. The US was busy fighting in the Cold war and in Vietnam War and plenty of other wars in the 60s if you are forgetting... Something like 70,000 US soldiers died in the 60s compared which was a not even comparable to the 1.5k deaths in india a war that only lasted 1 month.