I won't deny that historically for European and North American historians "Ancient History" or the "Ancient World" very specifically was the Mediterranean and Near East, but saying that museums and history books in the current day as a whole still follow this paradigm sounds misleading.
Which is all to say, I don't want to disagree that there was a time when "Ancient History" specifically referred to events and civilizations in Europe, Egypt, and the Near East/West Asia, but I question that this is still some sort of universal paradigm in education, historic writing, or museum collections, even if it occasionally remains a shorthand for that period in those regions.
ETA - part of my reaction is because I feel like in the past few decades there has been a lot of writing on the Ancient World that, for lack of a better term, could be labeled as "Silk Road histories", with a focus on the economic, cultural and political connections across Eurasia in the ancient period. Peter Frankopan's The Silk Roads: A New History of the World is a popular example of this, although that type of history isn't quite as "new" as Frankopan would have you believe. There have been a couple decades' worth of comparative histories of Rome and Han China, for example.
Nor is this contrast between ecclesiastical and non-ecclesiastical centres of schooling fundamentally helpful here. The medieval universities were institutionally "secular" entities, in that they were structurally guilds of masters or students, not as a rule foundations of ecclesiastical bodies. Obviously things get a lot more complicated when we get in realities of how they were actually founded and operated, but this would no less be true of much of early modern education as well.
Maybe. But OP said "in any museums or history books I've read," and there seem to be quite a few counter-examples. It was in my deleted answer, but I feel like the premise is close to the "why didn't I learn about x" question framing that the sub disapproves of.
Very interesting! As someone more familiar with historical scholarship and disciplinary norms on the Chinese side, I can say that what OP mentioned is also widely observed in China as well. It is a very common practice in both popular (such as 新华书店) and university bookstores in China to have a section labeled ”Ancient World History (世界古代史)” filled predominantly with books on Ancient Greece, Rome, Egypt and Near/Middle East, and occasionally (but much less) also includes books on pre-Columbian American and Indus Valley Civilization. Whereas there's always a separate "Ancient Chinese History（中国古代史）" section or sections for, you know, all the rest of the pre-modern history books. Similarly, in Chinese universities, "Ancient World History (世界古代史)" when used as a disciplinary/course/major label, it is almost always used to refer to non-Chinese ancient history (also predominately Ancient Greece, Rome, Egypt and Near/Middle East). See as an example (btw widely considered to be one of the best history programs in China), where "Ancient Chinese History" and "Ancient World History" are housed in separate college departments. Similar disciplinary division can also be seen in , as well as in most Chinese universities.