Short answer: my PhD is actually pretty unusual for humanities PhDs (in the UK anyway) because my supervisors actually drew up the project and got funding for it then recruited me onto it, rather than me pitching it to funders myself. So, in some ways, I didn't really 'decide' on the project, but obviously I had to be the kind of person who saw a recruitment thing for 'PhD student to research social history of vasectomies' and thing 'yeah, that's me!' which brings us to...
Have you learned anything of interest regarding fertility/pregnancy \after\ vasectomy in your research? Either failed or reversed vasectomy? When did reversals become available?
So I think ideas of masculinity, in particular related to fatherhood, change quite a lot during the 20th century, but there's also a really interesting thing I've come across where the media and some men demonstrate incredibly insecure masculinity (ie being worried that not having sperm in their ejaculate means they're not a man), whereas the men I've interviewed who had vasectomies all said it never even crossed their mind that they'd be less manly as a result, even the ones who got it in the 1960s. My hypothesis is that there have been men who relate their fertility to their masculinity throughout the twentieth century, and men who didn't, and it's maybe just that the ratio has changed a bit, but the bigger shift is the men who don't fear infertility have had more access to vasectomy than they used to. But it's such a difficult thing to understand, because not a whole lot of men directly write about their experiences or opinion in terms of masculinity, so there's a lot of reading between the lines in the media and stuff like that.
Hi! What was the popular awareness of vasectomies like in the UK in the early 20th century? Was it mistaken for castration in the popular consciousness?
Interesting specialty! I have a series of questions centered on the effects of high-demand, fundamentalist religions on vasectomy or other forms of birth control. I wonder if your data show correlations with factors like regular service attendance, adherence to outward dogmas, or self-assessed faithfulness and birth control? Does religious scrupulosity impact people’s willingness to talk with you about the subject? Do you see differences in an individual’s perceived masculinity between those who have only had one sexual partner vs multiple partners; or between those who consciously control number of children vs those who might reproduce until the female partner’s menopause? In highly religious people, does masculinity correlate with self-worth? With these same factors, how does the religious female partner view the vasectomized male?