Hes a pompous prat but he's steadfast defence of Ukraine when everyone else was still reluctant is respectable. You can both dislike a man on his bad decisions and respect the good ones he makes.
Absolutely. Right now the history books will show him as philandering idiot who presided over the greatest foreign policy blunder - only comparable with Chamberlain, the tens of thousands of COVID dead and the repeated corruption surrounding him and the Tories. He's desperate to rectify his image. Unfortunately for him, the internet exists.
Look at America. Nobody would send leopard tanks until America sent Abrahams. Ukraine doesn't need Abraham tanks. They are logistically a nightmare when combined with all their other tanks. They are essentially "useless".
Because of his organisational skills, studious attention to detail, subtle diplomatic nuances, commitment to multi-national alliances, deep military background and experience, uncorruptible track record of refusing Russian finance, and his discipline in handling sensitive documentation that he doesn't leave lying around on the sofa of the Downing Street flat.
In 1991 the cold war had just ended. The UK was still fielding jets built in the 50s. It has Buccaneers, Phantoms, Jaguars, Tornados etc. Today the RAF is quite literally bare bones. If you've read various defence journals over the last decade you'll have seen the Harrier force cut to free up cash for Tornado. Tornado scrapped for a Eurofighter upgrade. F35 numbers slashed etc. Typhoons were being stripped for parts to keep others flying etc. Tranche 1 is to be scrapped after only 20 years of service and not upgraded. 20 years is nothing for a jet that has a considerable service life. The UK quite literally has no jets to give away. It's not like you can just give away modern, complicated hardware anyway as it needs a complete support and logistics service. It's not as simple as sending over some tanks made in the 60s where all you need is some ammunition and an instruction manual that hasn't changed in principle since the 30s.