As part of my ongoing "Questions about Ancient Greece and Rome (you were afraid to ask in school)" series, I recently posted a short video about . Hopefully of interest. As always, suggestions for improvement are welcome.
Barry Mann’s song ‘Who Put The Bomp’ - a song by a Brill Building songwriter from 1961 which was obviously parodying the temptation towards nonsense syllables in pop music of the era - it wouldn’t have been seen as a take on ‘doo wop’ then, but instead on youth-focused pop music in general - Little Richard with his “wop bop a lop bop a wop bam boom” in ‘Tutti Frutti’, for example, or indeed the vocalese in the doo wop groups (which typically recorded with rock’n’roll backing bands, which rendered a bit superfluous the rhythmic effect of the backing vocals designed for a capella performances.) The song is probably most influenced by the Monotones’ 1958 ‘Book Of Love’ - “I wonder wonder who who-oo, who wrote the book of love?” - and the, shall we say, pop profundities you sometimes heard in such songs. The Monotones appear to exemplify the vocal groups of the era, by the way; Wikipedia claims they formed in a housing project in New Jersey and honed their singing in gospel church choir directed by Cissy Houston (Whitney’s mother) - and with six singers, they were aiming to provide a sound that would need minimal backing instrumentation, but of course the released version of the song does feature (relatively minimalist and probably unnecessary except for it needing to get on the radio) rock and roll instrumentation behind the song.
I need your help to solve this riddle! I learned about sigurd's history but he does not fit in thia riddle.
Such groups - especially the a capella ones who would rehearse on street corners (not that different in some ways from the young rappers today might rehearse on street corners accompanied by a beatboxer) - developed a ‘vocalese’ aimed at using the sounds of consonants and vowels to provide interest where there was no instrumental backing, rhythmic structure and variety underneath the lead vocal - in terms of vocal sounds, voiceless plosives like ‘p’ or ‘t’ might approximate a snare drum, while voiced plosives like ‘d’ or ‘b’ might approximate a bass drum - so the phrase ‘doo wop’ itself might approximate the 1 and 2 of a 4/4 back beat.