Under the Umayyads Al-Andalus, for example, is considered one of the Golden Ages of Jewish history—there were Christians and Jews at court, and the Umayyad caliph’s chief surgeon was a Jew; but the Umayyads were replaced by the Almohads who believed that religious minorities, as subjugated peoples, needed to be treated as such and laid down much stricter laws (this is one of the reasons why Maimonides moved to Cairo, for example).
Well, it depends what you're looking for, in some cases. Some places now with a predominantly Muslim population were not always historically, some places had Muslim rulers with large non-Muslim populations, and some places had large Muslim populations with non-Muslim rulers. For the purposes of the answer, I will try to account for the treatment of Jews and Samaritans within Islamic realms, during the rise of Islam, and in highly Islamic areas even under Christian rule.
So, the first negative interaction Islam has with Jews occurs in the ancient Arabian city of Yathrib, modern Medina. The historicity of this event has been called into question, particularly the question of scale, but as it represents an early Islamic narrative about their prophet, it could be taken to consider attitudes even if not necessarily historical reality. According to early Islamic sources, this city was a Jewish trade colony originally, ruled by 3 Jewish tribes known in Arabic as the Banu Qaynuqa, the Banu Qurayza, and the Banu Nadir. They also report that the Qurayza had been administrative officials under the Sassanid governance of the region in the past. Muhammad came into this area and tried to establish a treaty to end intertribal conflict, essentially establishing a base of power, that was ultimately challenged by the locals. The Jewish tribes were, each in turn, massacred and expelled, and in each case with accusations of hostility, deception, and/or betrayal, which can be reflected in the modern antisemitic canard of the scheming Jew.
While I must say again that the historicity has been called into question, this would at the very least be reflective of early attitudes towards Jews, depicting them as murderous and impious schemers, enemies of the prophet. Several tribes who had reportedly converted to Judaism as some point were not treated as harshly, and ultimately converted to Islam. During Muhammad's lifetime, the region of Yemen had a large Jewish population, largely Himyarite converts, and the area became a small hotbed of religious tensions for a while as the locals began to shift gradually to Islam.
Amazing work! I have never been exposed to this side of history before. I am going to reread and review this when I get a chance. You have provided me with a great start in learning history that was not taught to me.