This is one of the biggest differences between history and the STEM fields. The thing is, over in STEM, you lot don't really deal with humans, as such. History, on the other hand, is all about humans. It's written by humans, written for humans, researched by, interpreted by, and presented by humans, for the benefit of humans.
Absolutely! Its actually something I have been trying to get my head around and formulate as a question here: something about the extent to which 19th century nation building and the birth and development of the modern disciplines of History and Archaeology are intertwined, and how those narratives are so hard to dislodge. I am from England but I'm also Scottish and Irish by heritage, and I lived for several years in the US so I have seen how nationalist narratives form popular historical understanding, and impact politcal behaviour (for want of a better word) and identity in different settings.
This is a pretty good set already! We have agreement from both sides that there was a battle. Thus we can be reasonably sure that The Battle of Example happened. I'm not kidding here. There remains a reasonable possibility that the Battle of the Catalaunian Fields didn't happen. That we have this certainty is already a pretty good step along.
TL;DR: the current state and general nature of historical studies combined with the relative lack of interest of the general public in history appart from a bunch of specific, very studied events (and even then, new historiography hardly gets to change outdated general interpretations) makes it very unlikely that a single document would fundamentally change something so important that it somehow needs to metodically be communicated to the general population. The pile of already debunked historical myths and narratives still widely in circulation, from stupid stuff like invading Russia In Winter or Reptilian Summerian UFOs to more serious things like Reconquista, The Lost Cause and all makes it clear how little importance the general public gives to being up to date with critical , cutting edge analysis of history, and how frustrating this can be for historians.
Hi again! Thanks again for the book recommendations. I bought and read La nación inventada. Very much enjoyed it, though I have some thoughts re: nation building, identity and the use of history towards those ends. I'm going to mull it over a bit and then try to write something down when I have time.
I agree with you here, but if you think about it this is, sadly, not a problem restricted to this specific case: most modern nation-funding or nation-explaining "historical" narratives are, at best, reductionist explanations for complex, contingency ladden processes that create these deterministic justifications for the "way things are"; at their worst they are just pure inventions.
Next, compare the accounts. Who do they say has participated? Where do they say it's happening? Are they, in fact, describing the same battle? How do their accounts differ? How do they describe the proceedings? Are events in Side X's account compatible with events in Side Y? That part about the cavalry attack led by Caius Placeholderus Scipio Nonsuch into Side X's camp, when do the accounts say it happened? At the start or at the end of the battle?
For a more serious example I am familiar with that works to demonstrate both extremely dated public knowledge of an important historical thing and how historical studies are way more complex that "fact cheking" I can point you to the concept of Reconquista, with the whole Saint James The Moorslayer, Cid Campeador and the rest attached. It has been studied as a construction to death, the origins of the myths are clear, the political use of the myth is studied etc etc. Nonetheless it is a concept still assumed by most people today, even, or specially, in Spain, where it's been part of the narrative construction of castillian identity since the middle ages. It is obviously a wrong frame in wich to study 700 years of Iberian history, but a (sometimes) self serving teleological narrative of us vs them in a clash of civilizations is far easier for people to accept and move on that taking the time to critically approach not only the topic but the historiography of the topic as well. And in the case of Spain, the actualization of the Reconquista thing up to current standards would be the opposite of insignificant, at so many levels. Regardless that's what general people use history for, developing linear narratives to somehow understand or justify how things are. But as I mentioned, an as i hope this last example showcases, historical studies are way more complex than factual linear narratives of things that happened, and with that in mind it is really hard for a new specific finding to change our fundamental understanding of a broad topic of history to a point that it is important for the general public. Even in the recent example of the female warrior tomb thing that actually got into mainstream press it was presented as revolutionary, but in terms of historical studies it was one more piece of information that helped already existing approaches to the topic of gender: it is only the (understandable and already explained) "ignorance" of press and public of the state of gender studies in that area that make the finding "revolutionary" in the first place.
Thank you for your very detailed response to my question! Your reply covered my question perfectly.
But, having said all this, you are incorrect in your assumption: there has been examples of specific findings changing our fundamental understanding, or clearing out a lot of otherwise plausible hypothesis of important historical stuff to the point of filtering to the general public in modern times. The dead sea Scrolls are a good example. The Rosetta Stone is a very good example not in terms of fact checking but in terms of making new tools available to open new fields of study. I will be crossing the 20 year rule with this last example, but I think it is worth mentioning: recent findings have allowed historians to place the codification of the Quoran earlier than it was assumed in a kind of important way. As you see, these are very rare instances in the near past.
This isn't the case for before, though. Some findings, like the Oxyrhynchus Papiri, altered the way late antiquity was understood, for example. The Rosetta Stone is iconic, but ancient linguistic studies rely on a relatively small bunch of specific findings.