The British isles experienced marked demographically changes following the separation from Rome at the beginning of the 5th century. The economy declined and became more locally orientated, with cities decreasing in size and population, occasionally even being abandoned outright. Food production suffered as a result of a Little Ice Age in Late Antiquity and in the South of England, a significant portion of the native Brittonic speakers (likely an elite of sorts) left Britain for the European mainland during this period. These Britons settled in what is now Brittany (hence the name) and their language lives on, in France, in the form of Breton. In addition to all this, the so-called Plague of Justinian (probably a strain of Bubonic Plague) also arrived in Britain during the half of the 6th century as well, killing large numbers of people. Exact figures for England are impossible to give, but this pandemic is often estimated to have killed between 20 to 50% of Europe's population as a whole and would have hit the more densely populated cities far harder than the countryside.
Charles-Edwards, Thomas (1995). "Language and Society among the Insular Celts, AD 400–1000". In Green, Miranda J. edt. The Celtic World. London. pp. 703–736.
Modern scholars tend to explain the language shift from Celtic/Romance to Germanic as follows: Brittonic / Romance -speakers came under the influence of small Germanic warrior elites; whose dialects (being the ones with the most political power) were considered more prestigious, promoting bilingualism. In the case of British Romance-speakers, they might have already been in the process of shifting (back) to Celtic dialects at this point. Political power seems to have been the primary determinant of the superior prestige of Germanic dialects, as the native Britons do not seem to have had much of a technological or organisational edge over the Germanic settlers. The fragmented nature of the post-Roman fiefdoms strenhened the position of Germanic dialects in Southeastern England from which they continually expanded.
Notes taken! Especially on anglo-latin. But i feel emphasis on that may delay the point of the question on British Vulgar Latin as a dialect, a Celtic dialact, as opposed to a Anglo-Saxon one.