There will be even more now since they banned education for women, and only female doctors are allowed to treat women, so once all the existing female doctors flee the country or die out, women will literally have no doctors who'd dare to treat them.
Uh, no. Their are quite a few deep and pervasive differences between Christianity and Islam. For example Islam doesn't believe that their should be a difference between Church and state. In Islam their cannot be gods justice unless Sharia is law.
I just imagine a bunch of Gandalf bearded men with spectacles sitting in a conference room thinking of ways to make their country worse (better) for its citizens; “shit we got a food and educated professionals shortage” “aight let’s make people have more kids, and not allow women (who can increase employment rates by 50%) go to college… this will surely solve our issues and show the westerners how to properly run a country”.
Not what I said. So I’m going to ignore the rest of your comment where you rant about something I didn’t say, and instead ask why you think that subconsciously associating “the west” with whiteness is racist?
Why would it be racist to subconsciously associate “the west” with whiteness? At the moment I’m most concerned with why you felt I was accusing anyone of racism, when I wasn’t. It wasn’t implied or intended. You are offended over something you decided I meant.
It’s only a matter of time (prolly decades) until Afghanistan has a civil unrest and the people revolt against its backwards ass governing body… sure the US could’ve stayed and helped but for a nation like Afghanistan that has taliban cells hiding whenever a foreign nation comes to aid the public… it’s better if the people of Afghanistan themselves eradicate the taliban rather then foreign forces (it’s a controversial topic so everyone has their opinion of what should and shouldn’t happen).
There’s no reason why. There’s no way to include greece and rome as the origin of western civilization that can exclude egypt. That’s unintuitive to most people because they associate “the west” with whiteness. It’s not racist that they have that association, it’s just historically inaccurate.
I’m not trying to turn anything you said into an accusation of racism. Certainly not “another” because I haven’t done so previously. I’m asking a simple question. Why won’t you answer?