This is relevant to the other reason why this question is going in the wrong direction, namely that constitutional practice did not exist at Rome. Now, this is something of an open question in the field at the moment, but a few things can be said for certain. First, the Romans had not written constitution. Many attempts--most successfully Lintott's--have been made to "reconstruct Rome's unwritten constitution," as Brennan puts it, in the weirdest use of the word "reconstruct" I have ever seen. But doing so is necessarily something of a made up task. The Romans did not have a constitutional document, and they did not really have "institutional laws," as you put it. In many, if not most, cases the institutions that ordered and governed the state were not established on foundations of law, but on the mos maiorum, which was not a consistent idea. This has led to a strong and growing trend in scholarship--it may even be the majority now, and I feel fairly confident in saying that it is probably the majority view among younger Roman historians--that we should not really be talking about Roman "constitutionality" in any sense, and that it is a constructed idea fabricated by Mommsen on the basis of the German federal state of his own time. In so many cases "constitutional" practice and law was only outlined post factum, or did not have any clear legal framework at all. For example, when members of the assembly cried out that thunder had been heard during a legislative assembly of Saturninus, they were hoping that Saturninus would dissolve the assembly because obnuntiatio, the announcing of unfavorable omens in the assembly, should cause the assembly to dissolve. But this is the first clearly historical use of the practice, and there appears to be no law regulating its use until the lex de agendo cum populo of Clodius in 58, which finally outlined clearly the procedure for obnuntiatio as a part of civil law. Saturninus simply ignored the announcement of bad omens: the expectation that he was supposed to follow it had no basis in law, and its legal status would not be clarified for another 40 years. Similarly, the famous struggle over leges de vi in the 60s and 50s. The use of political violence, while dating back to the Conflict of the Orders, had never been clearly defined in Roman law. There seems to have been an expectation, particularly among the plebs, that political violence could be used legitimately, but the circumstances and form of its use was not clear. Escalating violence and conspiracy had to be combated with whatever was legal procedures were on hand that might be considered relevant to the problem, and then post factum solutions were enacted legally. But these were not changes to an established constitutional habit, rather they should be understood as the creation of a body of regulatory law, such as what a constitution should have done in the first place if there had been one. By the end of the 50s the Romans appear to have been starting to come to grips with the insufficiency of this piecemeal approach (even the fairly large body of legislation introduced in 63 had not been sufficient, and much of it had to be rewritten), since during his consulship in 52 Pompey promulgated a series of institutional laws ranging from regulations on magisterial tenures in the provinces to a lex de vi. This cannot, however, be called a "constitution" anymore than Sulla's laws, often called Sulla's constitution. Like Sulla, Pompey merely defined or redefined a series of existing practices, sweeping in scope but nonetheless targeted to include those that he believed were a problem. Neither Pompey nor Sulla, nor indeed really anybody until the end of the civil war, was trying to establish a clear, constitutional basis for Roman institutions. For example, the senate was a traditional body that sat because of the mos maiorum--later laws regulated entry into the senate, the requirements for senators, and so forth, but there was never any attempt to render into law why exactly the senate sat and how, legally speaking, it was able to exist in the first place.
In Graves 'Claudius the God' - Claudius goes on (and on?) endlessly about his seemingly daily chore of sitting as a judge on many cases that actually seem quit trivial. Was that a common practice for an emperor? A perceived 'expected' practice for a good emporer?