During the entire Interregnum, Cromwell struggled to manage Royalist sympathies even within his own camp. Many parliamentarians leading up to and during the civil wars never foresaw a political system that did not include a monarch of some kind. Most were simply opposed to any monarch with Catholic sympathies or the Stuart line in general, they were fully prepared to accept a hard-line Protestant monarch. However much like the French Revolution, events escalated too quickly for them and it became unpopular to remain moderate towards the monarchy. The New Model Army in particular became the core of republican sentiment within the parliamentary faction. Since this army was so successful at crushing Royalist and regional uprisings, the new political system was essentially built around them and their ideology, with Oliver Cromwell, one of their most popular officers, at the helm.
An urban legend. The army isn't called the Royal Army likely because of a variety of regions, but part of it is that individual regiments can be honoured with the title of Royal as a kind of military award or battle honour.
2. Parliament existed in the shadow of the army. A great deal of the nation's budget went to paying the standing army which resisted any attempts by parliament to reduce this spending or to disband any part of it. Some MPs believed that crowning Cromwell would distance him and his family from the military faction and give more power to parliament.
His behaviour suggests that he wanted a system separated into three parts, Lord Protector, House of Lords and House of Commons. However, it's difficult to tell what Cromwell was aiming for since it seemed like he was a very internally conflicted person. On top of this, they ideas he did confidently put forward ended up being somewhat unpopular (at least in parliament) and shot down more often than not unless he forced them through. His popularity gained through his military record faded as his political career progressed and he openly admitted that he felt unqualified to govern in some respects.
Oh wow. Is there any indication that Monck was a secret Royalist? And was Lambert just trying to take his "moment in the spotlight" with the radical coup? I'm assuming Cromwell held that in check while alive? Thanks again. Your answers are incredible.