What role do you see replicas playing in the increased calls for repatriation of looted colonial artefacts from museums? Can meaning and ‘authenticity’ be transferred onto objects using new technologies (such as scanning and 3D printing) in a way that is more available now than when the St John’s cross replica was manufactured?
Oh! Another question, oops. Your work here focused on a single example, of course--I don't know how far afield from that you've gone. Do idea of authenticity change (or, do you think they would) depending on what type of artifact, building, or other object is being replicated? I am thinking of 'dark tourism' in particular (old prisons, objects at sites of genocide, &c).
Materiality, location, use, accessibility, social context, biography, technology / craft of production and authorship will all inform how authenticity is experienced and negotiated.
Thanks for hosting this AMA, Dr. Foster! Dr. Jones' and your topic is fascinating. I paged through the preview right away.
In short, we’re seeing authenticity as how people experience the ‘truthfulness’ and auratic qualities of a thing or place, based on materiality, setting (includes display context), a sense of ‘pastness’ (a concept developed by Cornelius Holtorf in 2013) and the networks of social relations it is embedded in over time. Authenticity is not about accuracy in this context – I recommend keeping the use of the terms distinct. How accurate a copy something is is not the same as saying it is authentic, in our context, because we’re treating authenticity as something that is culturally constructed and relative, not an intrinsic quality of an object.
(A) New understandings of authenticity recognize replicas as original objects in their own right with stories worth telling.
(B) Replicas are distinctive as ‘extended objects’ with ‘composite biographies’ that link the lives of the copies and original.
By this time, I had developed the concept of the 'composite biography', looking at the inter-related lives of originals and their copies (reproduced originals!). The project really came together when I teamed up with my colleague Sian Jones. To my interdisciplinary research exploring the 'composite biography' of the cross, we added joint ethnographic work to understand its contemporary authenticity and value.
Thank you so much for joining us today! Reading up on the topic, this is absolutely fascinating. I quite easily recognized the image of the cross, but knew nothing about it. If I might ask something a bit more about you than the cross itself though, what got you first interested in it, and Iona? I can see why you would want to dig deep into the story, but what drew you to it in the first place?