There is a popular theory in the medical community that Syphilis originated in the New World and was brought back to Europe by either the returning Columbian explorers or by the captive native American people that they brought with them.
That's interesting. I was just wondering, how accepted is this idea that diseases from European contact is "a bit of a myth"? Something that stuck with me from reading the book "What is America?" is the saying "that white men did not conquer the Americas but diseases did". They argued that civilizations in the New World, such as the Inca, had advance military technology and organization that would have made it impractical for a few people on ships to successfully invade a whole city if it was not for the fact that they were weakened by disease. There is also the topic that the explorers felt entitled and emboldened by the death of natives because it was a sign that God has cleared out the land for their taking. What do you think of this?
Obviously it's more complicated than that, with population density, geography, cultural practices, available crops, etc. also playing a role. But if the Old World had larger populations for millennia it seems like that could go a long way to explain why the disease exchange was far more devastating for one side.
There does seem to be a disparity in the number of diseases exchanged though. Europeans also brought measles, chicken pox, malaria, etc.
It is notoriously difficult to identify past infections based on written descriptions alone, and the host-pathogen-environment relationship means pathogens can behave differently in different environmental conditions. We don't know if New World infections, besides syphilis, jumped to Europe. If the symptoms of a hypothetical disease wasn't different enough from other diseases floating around at the time we might never know. Syphilis was remarkable because it was novel and the symptoms were unlike anything in the European disease pool. A novel nonspecific gastrointestinal infection might go unnoticed because, well, that was normal for crowded cities with poor sanitation. We simply don't know at this point, but hopefully more aDNA analyses will help fill the holes in our understanding.