Well, the idea that Germanic peoples, already formed into moving ethnic groups, with their own dynastic kingship and simply took over eastern Britain on unsuspecting \[EDIT : Brittons\] was certainly greatly reconsidered since decades.Not just for what matter Britain, but for reasonably all of the Barbarian groups in their relation to the Roman state and post-imperial societies in the West : Franks or Goths build themselves, not just as political entities but as peoples, trough their relation with Rome; forming coherent elements from the tribal leagues they formed out of opportunity.
Thank you for this thorough answer. This seems all very logical. This must be somewhat akin to the Dorian invasion of Ancient Greece where there wasn’t most likely an actual invasion. It was more of an organic process. But perhaps settlements of foreign people become invasions in the popular conception as it seems more exciting. (I’d still like to think the mythical King Arthur fought the germans, however, as there would have inevitably been conflict.).
What's interesting is that this continental evolution doesn't really fit the what happened in Britain : while groups as Franks or Goths managed to be settled in Romania since the IVth century and either managed to reach prestigious functions, either took on themselves to fight for them; building a network of relations with both the Roman state and its militia (its civilian and military administration) and local provincial elites; Saxons were mostly left outside these changes : some might have settled in Gaul as laeti (semi-free military communities) along the Armorican Shore (the Gallic equivalent to the Saxon Shore, altough no similar settlement is attested in Britain) or more probably were absorbed by Franks, Barbarian ensembles being largely porous to new elements.
Until the VIIth century, we're mostly looking at what could be considered as "societies-in-being" with formation of social classes, first state modules, and regional identities out of a demographic mess dominated by Germanic people, maybe not in sheer numbers but in connection as while Britto-Romans polities still had access to the mainland trade roads trough Seine basin, eastern Britain was overall well connected trough North Sea to Europe and especially Francia, which dominated the trade roads between Mediterranean Sea and North sea (explaining the considerable amount of Merovingian coinage in South-Eastern England in the second half of the VIth century, another marker of their influence). This favourable position might have played an important role too.(Yeah, I do mention Franks a lot, but that's relevant, and that's not even touching the possibility of small-scale migrations or raids in southern England in the late Vth).
I remember that the possibility of a late Vth migration from North-Western Gaul, notably from a mix of Saxons and Franks (to be tied up to the possible Frankish raids in England around the 440"s) was considered quite plausible at some point.
Giving there's a lot of clues that not only Northern Germania went trough a period of desagregation and troubles already by the Vth (generalisation of local fortificatons, more widespread use of axes, etc.) and that the climatic changes of the early VIth century caused some serious issues (up to new Scandinavian migrating groups pushing people related to Germans in Britain, at least up to the Rhine), is there room for a more long-term and continuous migration model from the Vth to the VIth century?