Lastly I want to agree with Kelpie-Cat’s general point that it is wrong to project a notion that this was ‘progressive’. Art historians have spent a lot of effort and time trying to grapple with what this apparent nudity might mean and I don’t know of a really good discussion (for some random examples see Fischer, K. (1985) ‘How were love scenes on Gandharan Stūpas understood by contemporary worshippers?’ South Asian Art 1983, 629-39 or Dehejia, V. (2009) The Body Adorned, Sacred and Profane in Indian Art). I have in the past suggested the extreme nudity at some Buddhist sites might reflect a sexualization of the female form which shows the deep discomfort and tensions in contemporary society over the power and authority held by nuns at the time, though there are many other ways of thinking about this and probably the way people thought about it varied as much as the way bodies were depicted.
Thanks for your comment! It's great to have a South Asian specialist weighing in. It's interesting that the ancient donors are depicted wearing such different clothing to the Yakshi figures. My answer was mainly informed by medieval Chola art, where so far I haven't found any depictions of female figures covering their breasts or wearing anything like the heavy dress you describe the classical donors wearing.
In relation to the the Khajuraho Monuments, which are also medieval, I again disagree with you that it is "naïve" of me to suggest that the clothing in the sculpture may reflect what actual women wore. Many of these depict scenes of everyday life, such as women . Non-elites are also depicted such as , . None of the women depicted in any of these scenes wears clothing covering her breasts. When it comes to the Cholas further south, the ornamentation of the devadasi dancers in Chola Indian sculptures matches descriptions in Chola literature, notably in the 10th century Tamil epic Cīvaka Cintāmaṇi. (See "Socio-Economic Status of Devadasis Under the Cholas" by M. Velmurugan). In particular, the statues' jewellery closely aligns with items of jewellery described in that text. Similarly, archaeologists have identified artefacts that correspond closely with the jewellery on early medieval statues from Java (see "Java: Arts and Representations: Art Historical and Archaeometric Analyses of Ancient Jewellery (7-16th C.): The Prillwitz Collection of Javanese Gold" by Mai Lin Tjoa-Bonatz and Nicole Lockhoff).