Hitler had a meeting with former president Herbert Hoover in 1938 where Hoover expressed admiration for some of Hitler's ideas and "the German experiment". (Gags) "The world must look with admiration at the results achieved in Germany," he said, "American problems were, however, different ones. One was so permeated by the liberal economic attitude in America that it would be impossible to build up so perfect an organization as quickly as in Germany" (This is why Hitler got as far as he did before anyone did anything about him).
Yes. But accuracy doesn't need to be high. It only need to be high enough to be effective, in this case to be somewhat comparable to the archers.
You would think though, that since neither archers nor gunners were (well) armoured, in a shoot-out the archers should win if they had the greater range since they could let lose more arrows.
/u/dandan_noodles also mentioned before that in shooting tournaments firearms were shot at 230 to 250 paces, which would be on par or above that of the longbow. And you mentioned above that authors say that in skirmishing gunners could hit at 360 to 400 yards (!), which would be far above the longbow.
There are a lot of twists and turns on history between the Peloponnesian Wars and the Roman conquest of Greece, but broadly speaking yes Sparta continued to exist with a distinctive cultural character (that was even something of an ancient tourist attraction), no it was not a significant or independent physical or military presence.
What was the range of the guns at the time? Seems odd the archers would be outshot according to these sources if guns only had 80100 metre range. Did they angle their guns as well?
No doubt the bog iron is likely to have run out locally in more populated places (but as the map shows, it was not primarily the more populated, agricultural regions that the production happened), it's probable a lot of it ran out in Västergötland (the area south of the biggest läke, Vänern, on the map), which combined a large population with a heavy concentration of bloomeries in the Viking Age.
Consider this. If 3,000 archers shot just 50 arrows each, that would be 150,000 arrows. So archers on average must have had pretty abysmal accuracy in battle as well. Or their arrows were so weak they did effectively nothing.