In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
That's also a great point! I always forget about multi member districts. One of the problems I think we agree on is 51% representing 100% in democracy and not giving the other 49% a shot, this would alleviate that issue. Although I'm unsure if this would eliminate extremism or not.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Regardless, Gerrymandering is an absolutely un-Democratic, horribly corrosive tool to systematically subvert elections and the will of the people. Two wrongs do NOT make a right.
"A panel of three judges on a district court conducted four days of hearings and held that although the new state Senate map may “disproportionately affect minority voters” in Tarrant County, and although the legislature may have given “pretextual reasons” for its redistricting decisions, the challengers could point to no evidence indicating that the legislature’s “true intent was racial.”".
(And not just from one or two examples. Like I know Alaska has implemented it. But broad based over different geographical, cultural, and socioeconomic strata…).
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
A huge point that everyone needs to know is that gerrymandering is a fundamental foundation of the Republican Party, it is literally called "Project RedMap", it is in their party documents, developed by the Republican State Leadership Committee, and the Republican Party spent 30 million dollars initially to start the project.
A huge point that everyone needs to know is that gerrymandering is a fundamental foundation of the Republican Party, it is literally called "Project RedMap", it is in their party documents, developed by the Republican State Leadership Committee, and the Republican Party spent 30 million dollars initially to start the project.
Correct. I've taken a few ethics courses and it's been highlighted many times that intent is only used in law if there's an actual reason to suspect goodwill and even then effect almost always takes priority unless it's a minor offense. This is the government we're talking about, let alone, Texas. How can there be a "intent" question about anything in politics?