The "agrarian problem", as EJ Hobsbawm calls it, was solved in Britain primarily by a series of Enclosure Acts (1760-1830). "Common" land was systematically sold to rich landowners. This meant that ordinary people increasingly could not use land for subsistence through farming or hunting- they had to work on someone else's land for money. Unlike most of Europe the idea of peasantry had been done away with relatively early. These large tracts of land could then be farmed more efficiently, as opposed to the "strip" farmers, who farmed just enough for their families. More efficiency called for less workers. Agriculture became something done "for the market" by a small number, as opposed for oneself.(1).
I think perhaps enclosure's role within urbanization in England can be best understood as one of a number of developments in the early modern period--along with, for example, the Dissolution of the Monasteries--that redefined the relationship between rural and urban places and public and private spaces, thus creating the conditions for the physical and commercial growth of cities.
Very good points, well made. I certainly made generalisations about enclosure's impact. To state that it has a simple cause --.
Allen argues, quite persuasively I think, that the largest productivity increases happened before the period of parliamentary enclosures. Enclosures led to small increases in productivity, larger in areas that require more capital such as marshes that must be drained, but these increases in productivity are much smaller than was seen in both enclosed and unenclosed land in the period before 1750. Just as persuasive to me is he shows how this process worked: which techniques improved output, and how unenclosed farms were able to collectively decide on importing effective techniques, such as rotations with clover or turnips. He further argues using a multifactor model that the impact of enclosures on releasing labor to urbanization is quite minimal, some people moved after being dispossessed, but nowhere enough to drive migration to cities at the scale we see.