Can you expand on the veracity of the modern claim that "police started as slave patrols"? I came to the sub to ask that, but I figure it doesn't need its own thread.
Sheriffs and constables (a less law/order and more political/civil position similar to a sheriff) started in America in the 1630s (1632 in Plymouth for constables and 1634 in Virginia for sheriffs, which spread quickly as Plymouth also had a sheriff position created in 1634) and magistrates were already here at that point (but more often called justice of the peace, judge, or comissioner). Sheriff's were in charge of jailing, arresting, and generally keeping law and order (including formation of a posse which was volunteer or temporary law enforcement deputies). It originated a few hundred years earlier in England as a "Shire-Reeve," a type of local official charged with a multitude of duties, including tax collection. Eventually the name was shortened along with the responsibilities, focusing more on law and order while civil aspects were given to the magistrate. Magistrates were charged with operation of the courthouse and trials within it. They typically could sentence everything short of life and limb, which could only happen in the original court, or General Court, in the capital. Their civil authority would often have a dollar cap as well. There was no prison, only jail - a simple place to hold those awaiting trial (or sometimes as a "hotel room" for those on a proximity sentence, used for debtors to limit their freedom like house arrest is today). The stocks, pillories, whipping post, and eventually gallows, usually in the yard adjacent to the courthouse, allowed immediate execution of sentencing and punishment to be served letting society quickly move forward. Often the court days, which were a few days per month, were exciting days drawing folks from all around to have what can in some ways be described as an eighteenth century American block party. Street vendors sold goods, street preachers spoke, children played in the common fields and using the walls of the courthouse, gossips gossiped, elites socialized, and farmers discussed.