First, a quick history of lobotomy. It first began as something much, much more brutal. The inventor of psychosurgery, Egas Moniz, started out with an idea stolen from someone else, something much more barbaric than a lobotomy. He started out by removing patients' entire frontal lobes (the point of lobotomy was to sever connections between the frontal lobe and the rest of the brain, not to take chunks of the brain out). His colleague was doing it with non-human primates (chimps), but Moniz had handy backdoor access to actual asylum patients to practice on, so he took some patients and invented the frontal lobectomy, completely removing patients' frontal lobes. That did . . . not go well. It's heartbreaking. So he developed a less drastic approach. It's called a prefrontal leucotomy and he won a Nobel Prize. Psychosurgery crossed the Atlantic, where it was picked up by American doctors, most notably the psychiatrist Dr. Walter Freeman and his partner, neurosurgeon James Watts. Together they frequently performed prefrontal leucotomies, authored a book on psychosurgery (I actually own a copy), and trained other doctors. Dr. Freeman turned the procedure into what's known as a transorbital lobotomy and the rest is history.
Freeman refined the technique when he started performing transorbital lobotomies. Lobotomies were extremely appealing to many hospitals. You didn't need an operating room, you didn't need a neurosurgeon, it did not take a long time, and it's a surprisingly simple procedure. All you had postoperatively was black eyes. Freeman drove around the country teaching doctors - and sometimes non-doctors - the surgical technique. Freeman's car and camper were called the Lobotomobile. (I am not kidding.).
Can you clarify - my understanding was that lobotomies were typically done either on institutionalized patients or on individuals whose families requested it, because it was seen as "fixing" their behavior (i.e. making it easier for other people to deal with them), which is in line with the second quoted paragraph. How common by comparison was it for people to request it to be done on themselves, and what sort of conditions prompted people to do that?