Hi Dr Roberts, one thing I always wonder about these chroniclers from Medieval and Ancient periods is what their purpose was in writing these chronicles, exactly? Did 'history' really exist in the same way it does today, and who was it for? When Flodoard was writing his histories, who was the intended audience - was it other religious men of his own time, or did he have a sense that he was 'preserving' history for later generations? Or was it very simply something that many religious figures did because, frankly, they had the time?
Importance - extremely. It is solely due to him that we know so much about the Merovingian Franks. Compare the Lombards or Visigoths, about whom in this same period we are so much more in the dark because they lack historians. Accuracy - this is much harder to say, and as you probably know there has been significant debate about Gregory's aims in writing his Ten Books of Histories. Was he a moralist? A satirist? A historian of the Franks? A historian of Christianity? What I would say here is that a historian like Gregory generally had to write plausibly: the stories he tells may be exaggerations or may at times be economic with details or 'the truth' (i.e. the kinds of things we value in history), but I think he expected that his audiences would understand his many anecdotes as the kind of things that could reasonably be expected to happen. In this respect he tells us a huge amount about the world of the late sixth century, even if we might sometimes query particular aspects of his narrative.
Very Interesting. Did his contact with some of the leading figures of the day expose him to the political realities of power, that he might not have been entirely aware of before? In effect, did he get to see how the sausages were made because Rheims became a battleground of sorts, as you say, and did that disillusionment then make him pessimistic ? Or maybe just more pessimistic than the age truly warranted?
Read as often and as much as you can, and, depending on your specific areas of interest, be prepared to devote a good deal of your time to learning languages (for the aspiring anglophone Carolingian historian, this would be Latin for reading and analysing evidence, and French and German for being able to understand important scholarly viewpoints; depending on subject, Italian, Spanish and Dutch might also be required).
1. It is often stated, that the church held a key position in administrative things since the decline of the roman government. What did they do or posses to be so important?
Flodoard writes a more politically-focused chronicle, the Annals, which he models on earlier 9th-century Carolingian annals. This was a 'deeds of kings' genre to some extent that was sometimes written with the audience of a royal court in mind, though Flodoard was not himself a major political player (he was a canon and priest, never becoming a bishop himself), so it would have been more difficult for him to reach such an audience. One novel thing about Flodoard's annals, however, is that he occasionally interjects in the first person to justify his own actions when he got involved in local political conflicts. This is unusual, as annals tend to be impersonal and anonymous. I do think Flodoard writes annals (and he keeps adding to this chronicle for 45 years!) because he believes it's something that ought to be done, and future generations should be able to see what has gone on before them. But there is also an air of self-justification in it - what the historian Janet Nelson has referred to as 'a private history in the public history' (in reference to the 9th-century historian Nithard - who, incidentally, was a layman).
Thank you for your time and patience Dr. Roberts! Since english is not my native language i beg pardon for any mistakes.
Enslavement and slave-taking/trading definitely existed (particularly in northern European regions: Britain, Ireland, Scandinavia, the Baltic), though the role the slave trade played directly in the Western European economic upturn generally experienced during the Carolingian period was probably quite minor. Michael McCormick (in his book Origins of the European Economy and other publications) has argued that the slave trade (and specifically the export of slaves, often through Venice) to the East was a key driver of this economic development. The argument is somewhat controversial, and many question how economically significant the slave trade could have been in this period (indeed, international trade in general was a fairly minor aspect of the Carolingian economy). From a Frankish perspective, the labour of a slave captured via conflict was probably a lot more valuable than the price to be gained from sale/export. So a slave would more likely be put to work, perhaps in Francia, than sold abroad. Charlemagne's difficulties conquering Saxony seem to have led eventually to lots of Saxons being deported to Francia for resettlement on estates there. I'm not sure that this ever amounted to any population decrease overall, nor that the slaving of Franks themselves was ever a serious issue. And was there an 'economic collapse' of the Carolingian world? It very clearly fragmented politically at the end of the 9th century, but many argue that clear foundations were laid during this time for the long economic boom of medieval Europe that begins during the 10th century.