Another reason that "fighting communism", while it might have made a good slogan, does not accurately reflect US policy in the Cold War are the times the US developed friendly ties with communist regimes. The most famous will of course be the People's Republic of China, which the US developed favorable relations with from the early 1970s on. This was clearly for geopolitical, not ideological reasons. Nixon made a political career of red-baiting, while Mao had long denounced the USSR as "revisionist" and , yet both men met and helped develop cordial relations between both countries (the US would sell billions of dollars' worth of weapons to the PRC until 1989).
Greetings! I shall build off the excellent answers of u/Kochevnik81 and u/CapriciousCupofTea by delving a bit more into the geopolitical side of the Cold War's origins. It remains of course, a historiographical debate of considerable (though by no means dominant or overarching) influence as to what extent ideology really motivated the US to do what it did over those 50 or so odd years. Our starting point for this is 1945, Ian Buruma's cheerfully named "Year Zero". Let's begin.
By the time Senator Joseph McCarthy begins making waves in Washinon, through introducing internal security acts, alleging the presence of disloyal communists within the ranks of the Truman administration, and calling for the termination of high-ranking US officials, the stage was set for broad public acceptance of the narrative that Communist spies could be anywhere.
For the rest of Eastern Europe, hard facts dictated the options. The Red Army had liberated much of the region from Third Reich, so Stalin had practically incontestable reason to exert his influence over these states. Historian Thomas Patterson notes however, that this influence was itself motivated due to "profound security fears" over Eastern Europe, as it had been from this region that the Nazis had launched their catastrophically bloody war against the Soviets.
Note that the Clifford-Elsey Report and the Long Telegram did not actually frame Communism as the main reason for Soviet expansionist desires, but both reports considered it a possible reason for Stalin's "aggressive" designs for Eastern Europe. The Soviets for their part, eyed the American "Open Door" Policy (by which American economic and even military influence was spread across the world, sometimes under force) with suspicion, fearful that such influence would undermine their "bloc" in Eastern Europe.
What followed was the Marshall Plan, which further incited Soviet concern over America's increasing economic and political hold over Western Europe. To that end, in September of 1947 Stalin and the heads of various Communist parties across Eastern (and even Western) Europe met in Poland to form the Information Bureau of the Communist and Workers' Parties (shortened to "Cominform"). At the conference where this happened, Andrei Zhdanov gave his famous "Two Camps Speech", now solidifying the ideological and geopolitical rivalry which had come about: