I will leave it to Africa experts to tackle the Africa side of this equation. But I'll repost part of a related I've written.
To develop Congo's economy as a fully rounded, diversified economy which returns value to its own citizens and supports public institutions was always a very different kind of proposition than rebuilding France or Germany's existing industrial and commercial base back to their pre-eminent prewar status: as a territory with modern boundaries and governmental institutions, Congo has never had an economy that even remotely serves the needs of its own people. Development aid, if it was serious about that goal (and it never was), would have had to build economic institutions that were completely at odds with Congo's existing experience and structural place in the pre-1960 economy, with all the social institutions required alongside that. (Right up to 1960, none of the existing factories or firms in Congo employed Africans in any but a lower-level managerial role, and the Belgians had largely blocked any Africans from receiving advanced education until a year or two before independence.) Imagine if the Marshall Plan had needed to provide support for the creation of an advanced industrial, manufacturing and service economy from scratch in 1947 in a European state and you might sense just how different the prospects have been. Development aid in postcolonial Africa careened between different orthodoxies because on some level the fundamental challenge of completely undoing colonial economic and social institutions and building something new was neither fully admitted by outside institutions who had a vested interest in downplaying the structural impact of colonialism nor was seen as fully practical in terms of the expense and effort that would be required.
I don't think I would, to be honest. It certainly helped to lay the groundwork, but the European Union (which was created by the 1992 Maastricht Treaty) was preceded by the European Economic Community, created by the Treaty of Rome in 1957, and the EEC in turn was an outgrowth of the European Coal and Steel Community, negotiated in 1950-1951.
Overall, this is a false equivalence. Numbers require context for interpretation and the long term effects of colonialism are still very present.
Third, the non-math difference really does boil down to post-colonialism. 1960 is not a random year for Africa. Seventeen African Nations achieved independence that year; armed resistance to Apartheid began in South Africa. These changes saw a lot of new nations come into being. But post-colonial nations are starting from behind. They often have a significant lack of trained work force and limited economic infrastructure. Unlike Western Europe in the 1940's, they weren't picking up the pieces in a country that had been prosperous beforehand, they were starting from scratch.