There are several things wrong with this quote and the short work it comes from. Ehrenreich and English were writing before most of the modern historical analysis of the early modern witch craze and their methodology and their conclusions have since been mostly rejected. They took a fairly small number of cases where folk healers were targeted in witch hunts and extrapolated an elaborate theory from this limited data set. They concluded that these healers were a threat to the increasingly professional class of doctors with academic medical degrees, so they were particularly targeted in the witch craze as a way of taking control of medicine from these (mostly) women.
2. Bathodius, Lucas. De Natura Rerum, IX Bücher. Ph. Theophrasti von Hohenheim, genant Paracelsi. Jobin.
We have physicians and surgeons centuries before the putative talents of these "witches", performing recognizable and medically useful procedures and compounding medications whose efficacy we can validate today as effective antibiotics. They develop surgical instrumentation and accurately diagnose at least some diseases. The best of them have recognizable medical logic-- they can diagnose ailments, and have a reasoned idea of what they can and cannot cure. They start their studies with Galen, and learn more from Arab and Jewish physicians, and then innovate further-- there are occasional signs of some interest in astrology or the magical, but the overwhelming influence is medicine, not wicca.
2. You mention " 1970’s feminist revisionist history regarding witchcraft " I assume this is a whole historiographic trend, can you explain what that means a bit more?
4. Harvey, William. "Exercitatio anatomica de motu cordis et sanguinis in animalibus." Frankfurt am Main 1628.
The OED suggests that its "folk etymology" that connected the two senses -- eg the two words are historically unrelated, just coincidentally similar, and the similarity appealed to listeners; not being a linguist I can't say more than that.
4. Bald's Leechbook I've heard of, however, hasn't it only been tested in vitro, so isn't the most we can say that it's a disinfectant?