This is a really good question, and one that I have never seen satisfactorily answered in whole, so I suppose someone has to do it... The stereotypical elements of viking dress, horned helmets for example go back to 19th century opera as a shorthand for barbarism and antiquity, but that isn't what we're interested in, if you are, take a look at my old answer on the topic that I wrote some time back.
Indeed, given their propensity for extremely pale skin, thick eyeliner, and meaningless tattoos that were used for a sense of aesthetic and not historical accuracy, I will call these the goth vikings. (This could get confusing because of the supposed connection between the Goths and southern Sweden and the isle of Gotland, but I digress).
Really? I get that whether they existed or not is fairly controversial since they're pretty much just attested to in the sagas written down in the 13th century (and iconography if you really want to try and make a case) but simply saying they are just literary inventions akin to fanfiction or plot devices seems a little presumptuous doesn't it?
We have black and we have brown in abundance, but lets focus on the design of the armor. This armor makes no sense and is totally unattested. It is iconographically recognizable as Norse in Ragnar's case because of the large raven emblazoned on the chest (completely unattested as such a device is), and I'll admit that is does help to make the Norse standout from their much more traditionally medieval coded adversaries in the show. The Saxons on Vikings tend to be armored with chain mail or scale armor which is plausible enough (even if lacking in execution due to production values). Modern viking media is often replete with sort of faux-armor aesthetic. The predominant materials are leather across the board with only small amounts of metal fittings and we see this in all viking affiliated media:
Leather armor is a bit of a contentious topic, but current scholarship indicates that popular armor in Scandinavia in the Viking Age and would have been maille, or chainmail, with shields and helmets to go along with it. So how do we go from chainmail, a shield, and a helmet to the above? Some aspects are easy to examine and trace. Shields by nature are relatively simple (though some shows do still manage to screw them up, but I won't deal extensively with them here. There are helmets that survive to today from the viking age, though they are not necessarily the ones we always associate with the modern Norse aesthetic.
The two most famous Scandinavia helmets are the (Vendel Helmet]( and the respectively, and you see variants on these helmets in modern media ALL THE TIME, here's a few examples.
The problem is that of these helmet designs, the Vendel helmet was almost certainly ceremonial and never used in combat, but it is at least based on an actual historical artifact, which is more than can be said for the majority of the goth viking aesthetic.
So while some aspects of the goth viking aesthetic, ie some of the helmets, are rooted in historical artifcats, the majority of the look is not. The eyeliner, dark color palate, leather armor galore, and so on have more to do with trends in film/television than they do with accurately capturing the past, and many of the common truths that we associate with the Norse, such as certain beliefs and practices, are only ingrained in popular understanding through misinterpretation, repeated inaccuracy, and a quite frankly alarmingly ill-informed mass audience that is willing to believe and repeat historical myths They just happen to not have horned helmets these days, but the goth vikings of today have about the same amount in common with real life Norsemen as the opera inhabiting mythical figures of centuries past.
You mentioned the psychedelic mushrooms being a myth. Were 'berserkers' also not real, instead being a typical description of the savagery of a foreign culture? Was berserking seen as something that just happened to people in battle, or were there actual dedicated berserkers? If there were, what sort of rituals did they have instead of the mushrooms?
These are all relatively recent example, but you can go slightly farther back in time and the trend applies to other movies such as King Arthur (2004), Beowulf (2007), and Valhalla Rising (2009), all of which trade out horned helmets and muscle bound gladiators for lots and lots of eyeliner, fur, and vaguely historical-esque (not accurate but also not obviously inaccurate to the average lay person) dress.
So this is something I've been wondering about too. Not necessarily Techno Viking specifically, but I wonder how much musical subcultures have had an influence on the modern viking look. I wonder if the face paint, eyeliner, hairstyles etc could possibly be traced to metal subcultures like black metal and folk metal. I mean Ragnar Lothbrok looks like he could be a frontman for a viking metal band tbh. I wish the costume designers for these shows and whatnot would be a little bit more honest with their influences, because from what I've read in interviews and such they keep trying to stress how historically informed their design choices are, when I see very little in common with the historical descriptions.