This seems to be extremely common in recent games (see e.g. the tracks , , , , and ), but much rarer in older games. What was the first game to use this motif? Was the idea adapted from soundtracks in other media that predate video games?
Since Georgy nerd-sniped me with a history-of-communication-technology example, I looked up the actual equivalents:
I loved Escape From Rome by Walter Scheidel. Basically explains the rapid rise of British and Western economies and hegemony by using comparative analysis and careful consideration of counterfactuals. The theme is empire and the ways that it limits rapid progress, and that the “Great Escape” of the early 19th century was only possible because of the intense fragmentation and competition that lasted in Europe ever since the fall of Rome. Extremely interesting macro-historical and materialist oriented analysis that covers basically the whole scope of European history from Rome on, as well as a similar breadth or Chinese history and to a lesser extent also Persian/Middle Eastern and Indian.
>It was torture for me to keep awake. The hours seemed days. At 5 in the morning, however, the fruitmen began calling for numbers, and their Dago-Franco-Hispano-Americano kept me on the guess and awake. At 7:30 we parted, a band of hollow-eyed girls looking ghastly in the sickly morning sun that struggled through the fog.
The battle continues: more academic publishers are starting to offer the PDF of their books free and just sell the paper copy to libraries, and the University of California called one of those conglomerates' bluff So the conglomerates are trying to move to a model where the author has to pay to be published (usually through grants from their university) but the reader does not, which would let them keep their racket going.
The interview was from Beep! Magazine June 1986 (they were one of the first magazines to take VG music seriously and some issues got bundled with a flexidisc) and the full interview has been translated into English .