The answer can be organized along three general interlinked factors (roughly presented here in chronological order): The Italian Wars, Atlantic Trade, and the Industrial Revolution.
Yes. Venice and the Ottoman Empire were frequently at war. The Mamluks had control there when Venice was hoping to do it but when the Ottomans came in it was hopeless.
As it turns out, wages and efficiency in England were already rising when it was an agriculturally unproductive peripheral European state and a use for local resources like coal had yet to be found (here we are talking of the early 18th century, when England was not even a particularly successful colonizer — India, and not the Americas, would be England's fortuitous colonial success, at least as far as the English were concerned up to the post-WWII period). In fact, early industrial development had largely relied on water power, something which Italy was actually very advanced in (canalization has while the Prime Minister who oversaw the Piedmontese unification of Italy ). And if natural resources were to be a determinant factor, the Spanish and Portuguese Empires, or maybe even Russia, would have been candidates for successful early industrialization. As things would have it, they were all ineffective very late industrializers. Other countries which were resource-poor instead managed to industrialize late but effectively: the example of Japan comes to mind, which was a more successful industrializer than its much larger and resource-rich neighbor, China. The Netherlands is also pretty much the first modern economy to emerge, and they didn't have very many natural resources at all (nearby Belgium does have coal and other minerals though, although again those only come to be helpful once industrialization is well underway).
Thank you. Other than joint-stock companies, what are some other very significant improvements over medieval institutions that led to the expansion of the financial system and industrial growth in the Lowlands and England?
You could (and people have!) argued that all a manner of additional factors, all interlinked, contributed in their own way to fostering economic growth. Giving local leaders a hand in writing a country's laws and shaping policies as the English Parliament did, for example, encouraged a greater buy-in to society. As a consequence of this buy-in, local leaders were encouraged to take the initiative and, again as an example, develop local schools that went beyond typical primary education, such as technical and vocational schools. The lack of this sort of initiative was actually a major issue in Italy, where the chronic shortage of technical personnel basically meant forgoing a lot of the income-benefit of industrialization as foreign firms and foreign workers were habitually brought in to install and operate advanced machinery (sure, there were some industrialist-sponsored technical institutes, notably in Milan, but they were too few and far between).