I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
I suppose their antics is what a lot of Republican voters wanted; But there’s just a lot of uninformed voters in this country that got once again suckered into voting for these assholes and what they they were selling because they wanted to stick it to the Dems for high gas prices (at the time) and inflation, instead of actually understanding how global economics work.
What? They're doing a fine job! The two most important problems are how to get control when a only minority of the country's voters want you and how to put more money in the pockets of their rich donors masters. I give them an A+.
We're gonna have 2 years of impeach Joe, Hunters Laptop, Regulating womens anatomy, no taxes for the rich, reduction of help to the needy and poor, cuts to Social security and of course no healthcare worth a damn that wont bankrupt you, more debt, more poverty, more gun related deaths, more taxes on the middle class and poor, lying, grifting, sedition, science denying, racist, anti climate, anti voting rights, pregnant 10 year olds, police that arent held accountable, judges that are bought and paid for, anti gay, anti diversity. But hey, they support Putin and Ruzzia... wait a secondFucking idiots nearly shot each other over electing a spokesman, chosen from among themselves! Do you think they have great policies helping Americans? Cant even help themselves.I give you Kentucky. Represented by one of the most powerful men in the country for the last 20 years. He's a Republican. His net wealth has increased 20 fold since he first donned his shell. In 20 years, he's done jack shit for that state. It ranks nearly dead last in so many categories. It's a national embarrassment. Abject poverty in county after county. No investment. No growth. No jobs. No future. No problem for that ole turtle. His shell is nice and cozy. That's what we have to look forward to.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !