I am not sure when it ends (I think before Summer), but you will be surprised how quickly it all comes down.
Also, in reality the Soviets didn't used mass waves to win, they had to change their military tactics, combine arms and adapt to the situation to defeat the germans, the doctrine that allowed them to win was called Deep operation, so yeah, the Soviets in WW2 actually showed more military competence than the Russian army today.
Yea, I'm breaking it down. I'm on the level of grammar and semantics. I don't care if you find it pedantic and useless. I'm a writer so I pay attention to these things. If I start writing shitty sentences, it will result in shitty paragraphs. Which will result in shitty pages. Which will result in shitty chapters. Which will result in shitty work. Got it?
I do not in any way believe that Putin can be persuaded in rational dialogue, not at all - what I’m saying is that ignoring the fact that mutually assured nuclear destruction still holds (because it is unpleasant and deeply offensive to any sense of justice that Russia cannot be stopped by force without risking the end of mankind) is the fastest way to a swift death for the lucky ones among us and unspeakable suffering before a drawn-out painful death for the rest, and thus not a course that any rational person could possibly argue for.
"For want of a battle the kingdom was lost." doesn't really make sense, though, does it? When you break it down...
How do 21 active B-2 and a small fleet of B-21 bombers that won’t be active until 2027 in any way entirely negate an arsenal of thousands of nuclear weapons spread across Russia’s nuclear triad in hundreds of locations including submarines, bombers spread over different airfields thousands of miles apart, mobile launchers spread over a whole continent, etc.? The whole point of mutually assured destruction (which is in force today just as it has been for over half a century) is that even if Russia’s conventional military strenh is tiny compared to that of NATO, there is no way that Russia could be destroyed or overpowered that would not spell pretty much the immediate end of mankind, that part had not changed, and that is precisely why Putin embarked on this war in the first place - he knows there is no way he could lose completely that would not mean the end of the world, and he is betting on this very fact.
I did. Might be wrong, but they have extremely limited options besides sending WW1 conscript waves, which will be eradicated fairly easily.