The bulk of Highland Emigration to Nova Scotia occurred after the American Revolution - take Cape Breton for example, D.C. Harvey notes that "In 1774 the population of Cape Breton was given as 1,012, of whom 502 were Acadians, 206 Irish, and the remainder American or British. There were not a dozen Scots on the whole Island, which in the nineteenth century came to be the largest centre of Gaelic-speaking Scots outside the motherland ... it was not until 1802 that immigrants came direct to Cape Breton from Scotland." (pg. 32-33, Scottish Immigration to Cape Breton, Cape Breton Historical Essays).
5. The French Canadians didn’t trust the rebellious Americans any more than they trusted the British Crown, in fact far less. The British Crown was a distant power and had formally granted them protections as new subjects, including their right to worship freely. Meanwhile, the French Canadians remembered how American colonists like Washinon and others - les Bostonnais, as they called them all - had led the invasion that conquered them, treated them badly during the war, and included a lot of radical Protestants who saw Catholics as some Satanic enemy, especially but not solely in New England. The Second Continental Congress, with its declarations on fundamental freedoms, specifically tried to address this and sent out tracts to be given to French Canadians, but the majority were not convinced. Besides, they (probably correctly) saw the colonists as near enough to interfere more in a new North American state but too far away to offer immediate assistance should the British try to crush any Canadian rebellion.
So in short, it wasn’t that Canada was simply ‘the bit of British North America that didn’t rebel’, but that they were largely of a different language and religion and far more wary of the revolutionaries, or from a very separate British colonial tradition, and all much further away. But the core of mainland Anglo-Canadian culture as we know it came from American people who didn’t rebel: loyalists who moved north. Nova Scotia is almost an exception, though it had a small and separated population, but not to enough of a degree, and practical concerns and a lack of will won out there.