The short answer is that yes, essentially every culture has stories about the arrival of agriculture but, no, we should not default to taking these as authentic historical witnesses to the arrival of agriculture or life before.
This is amazing. Thank you for the detailed reply. I may be misunderstanding, but does this mean the Garden of Eden story and the story of Cain and Abel are anti-civilization/anti-agriculture? Farming is a punishment from God, and the sacrifice of the lamb pleases Him while Cain's fruits and vegetables don't satisfy. Assuming the stories were first being told while the Hebrews are nomadic, pastoral people, that would seem to make sense. They would prefer stories that championed their way of life and implied things were better before people started settling down to toil in the fields.
Incredibly interesting and detailed comment. Thank you for taking the time to write it up. Are there any books you recommend reading related to this sort of ancient history?
I believe that's because it'd contribute somehow to the microbiology of calcium carbonate precipitation, adding strenh and bio-polymerization properties to the earth mixture, but I've studied as much of the microbiology and chemistry of calcium carbonate processes as I've been able to (I got a little obsessed with understanding the full chemical/biological cycle of calcium carbonate and calcium oxide while trying to work with quicklime plasters) and it seems like it's mostly entirely understudied, and only superficially understood where it's been studied at all (different papers have produced neatly contradictory results on whether the microbial activity of calcium-carbonate precipitating biofilms add strenh to adobe edifices by re-mineralizing over time to make a hard, hydrophobic surface, like eggshell or seashell, or detract from their integrity by allowing microbes to gradually decompose the surface - it likely varies wildly depending on what exact material conditions and microbial communities we're dealing with, but those have not really been profiled to any satisfactory extent because of the difficulty of working with biofilms that can't be easily cultured in a lab).
Sure, of course. I was mainly trying to simplify in the first sentence and then described it in a bit more detail elsewhere with an example of the Protestant Reformation ("Ernst Troelsch who was a liberal Protestant and arguably among the first modern academic historians, Freidrich Engels who wrote the first real piece of academic Marxist history about the Peasants' Revolt in the Reformation, people like Eamon Duffy who added a Catholic perspective about what was lost not just what was gained, etc. etc.").
The basic criticism seems to be that it's a flatly colonialist term used to disparage and subjugate the "primitive other," by placing them in a hierarchical narrative of linear progress (that old stagist nonsense, Whig history, "ladders of development," etc; the framework behind the "three ages" model [which I now regret having in my flair even though it's still in widespread use in Ancient Near East studies]; the idea that people start out at a "baseline" level and "progress" through successive stages of advancement a la the stone age, the copper age, the bronze age, the iron age, whatnot - which is a completely false and long-discredited notion in historiography but which still somehow seems to be the default model of history for most of the public - in particular in its form that posits that hunter-gatherers are at a lower stage of development and that they "advance" through pastoralism and into settled agriculture, even though that's a blatantly ahistorical model) which sets the "primitive" as being lesser than the allegedly civilized colonizers.
I wish I could give you more details. So, I must admit, the pastoralist thing is something I added because I personally think it's true, but I haven't done (or seen) a real systematic study arguing this point. I'm going off Bruce Lincoln's work in Indo-European myth and generalizing a lot (probably more than I should).