In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Seriously. A particular dumbass and her husband I know (and both I loathe, but fortunately don’t have to be around anymore) live in Simi Valley and all they do is complain about Democrats and bought a gun because - and I’m not joking - they need to protect themselves from the roving BLM gangs they think are Mad Maxing it up around here and are gonna come for them. They’ve 110% dropped the “If you don’t like America, then leave!” line when I/we have complained about Trump, etc. They’ve spent years bitching about this state even though they live comfortably, have literally nothing to suffer for (financially well off, white, etc.) and keep saying they wanna leave and they perpetually go to Tennessee and other red states “looking for a home.”.
Seriously? We’ve heard attacks about our generation since we were 15 and now that we’re pushing 30 they’re still fucking doing it?!
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Seconded. I've said it before, I can't wait until we're all just different shades of brown. Maybe we'll actually start seeing each other similarly if we can't immediately identify, white/black/hispanic/asian/etc.
Fucking do it, then! Fuck. If it’s such a liberal hellscape here, leave. I’m so sick of it. But I think, deep down, they know they’re better off here than fucking Kansas or some other red state “utopia,” but would never admit it, because they always come up with an excuse; first it was “We’ll move when our daughter graduates.” That was five years ago. “We’ll move when the election is done.” That was two years ago. “We’ll move when he retires.” That’s tentatively five years from now. I’m so sick of it, and I’m glad I don’t have to be around them anymore, but diehard California Republicans/MAGA really are a unique breed of troglodyte to both benefit from living here while thinking that they ever have a chance of getting California to turn red.