As you saw above, the relation between Capital and Labor during the 19th and early 20th century was less then pleasant to say the least. The common stance taken by Capital at the time essentially amounted to a zero tolerance policy towards unions. If you tried to strike during that era you almost guaranteed the death of at least one striker and injuries to countless others. Lets not forget, this was the same time that in Europe events such as the Paris Commune were happening/ just having happened so its not like this was a uniquely American thing. But by the time the 1930s role around the government put some what of a leash on Capital, and federal forces are most certainly not going to be used as a significant strikebreaking force any more. National guard units do get used time to time but certainly not to mow down strikers in the streets, the only real notable example I can think of is the Colorado Labor Wars, which were just that a war, but that's another story and rather unique to the mining industry. Even as early as 1902 Teddy Roosevelt was using the Federal Government to force arbitration between Capital and Labor. By the time FDR is in office things are looking up for labor.
The political aspect of this question is fascinating, but I'm also interested how the changing conditions of the world and technology in general affected these movements, and if there's any scholarship that tackles this question from that perspective.
Frank, D. (1994). Race Relations and the Seattle Labor Movement, 1915-1929. The Pacific Northwest Quarterly, 86(1), 35-44. Retrieved February 17, 2021, from.
For example, I know that early labor activism was brought about simply by industrialization's tendency to concentrate workers into large urban centers, and the act of bringing workers together in shared conditions of toil brought people together to commiserate with one another about their conditions, and this formed the basic motivation to organize with one another to fight for better conditions. And to facilitate this organization, you could have a few people printing up flyers in their spare time to pass around, or even start printing your newspaper once you're a little more organized to spread your ideas around.