Today’s theme is The History of Art, and we want to see everyone share history that fits that theme however they might interpret it, be it visual, audio, literary, etc. Share stories, whether happy, sad, funny, moving; Share something interesting or profound that you just read; Share what you are currently working on in your research. It is all welcome!
Foundational to the concept of transcultural exchange in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries is the prior concept of a preconceived singular identity of both Britain and an equally singular identity of India, as opposed to two radically different countries with different regional, religious, historical and cultural variances. Whether these conceptions are accurate or stereotypical remains controversial but there is a suggestion of a sense of cultural identity that comes through in the art of the time. British colonial perception was of cultural essentialism and its association with racist ideas that emphasised cultural purity and regarded cultural mixing in terms of decline and miscegenation. Transculture in the art history of Anglo-Indian relations of the Victorian and Edwardian age is the cross exchange and transitioning of craft, design and commercialism emerging from the vestiges of the East India Company and morphing into the institution of a cog in the empire of Britain.
No splice! Fanboys are cool after commas that contain full sentences, and thus new, or additional, subjects and verbs (the fanboys are the connective conjunctions for, and, nor, but, or, yet, and so). I almost dreaded typing even this, however, as usage isn’t always standard, and some people, places, and publications have their own standards and preferences; for example, older writings oft use those aforementioned conjunctions with semicolons rather than the perfectly acceptable comma, and sometimes, to keep things clear, semicolons are used to prevent misreadings, that is, to make it clear that the proceeding clauses in between commas belong to this kernel sentence and not that, where a kernel is the sentence’s basest clause, which absolutely must contain, uninterrupted, the subject and verb, or, that is, the subject/predicate.