This is late, but can you explain to me the current understanding of the discrepancies found within the Hittite language and the rest of the proto-Indo-European languages and how this fits in with the Kurgan hypothesis? From your first comment, I'm presuming current scholarly consensus is that they went around the Black Sea and back down into Anatolia, however that wouldn't really explain the differences in the language to me, nor would it explain the fact that (to my knowledge) Steppe DNA has not been found amongst ancient Anatolian remains.
5. Recent genetic studies of the people of the Maykop and Kura–Araxes cultures suggest that, while cross-Caucasian genetic admixture was definitely occurring, both groups are far more closely related to people groups in the northern Anatolian Plateau than they are to groups in the Pontic Steppes.
Of course, it's also entirely possible that Indo-Europeans, maybe even members of the Yamnaya culture itself, did cross one of the various passes that link the lowlands on either side of the Greater Caucasus Mountains, simply to die out thousands of years ago with ne'er a trace. For a while, it was thought that the Maykop culture (ca. 3700 to 3100 BCE on the Russian side of the modern-day Russo-Georgian border) and the Kura–Araxes culture (ca. 4000 to 2000 BCE in modern-day Georgia, stretching into the Anatolian and Armenian Plateaus) may have been Indo-European, as they both exhibit the archetypical Indo-European tumulus-style burials and have material connections to other contemporary likely Indo-European groups. One hypothesis, proposed by Gamkrelidze and Ivanov in a series of works in the 1980s, even locates the Indo-European Urheimat in the Armenian Highlands, but even that hypothesis sees the migrations largely avoiding Transcaucasia.
The Armenian Highlands Urheimat hypothesis is criticised on much the same grounds, archaeologically speaking, as it holds both cultures to be Indo-European, though there are also linguistic criticisms.