Coming in days late after seeing this in the Sunday Digest, but the book on this subject is Geoffrey Parker's , which is a little old, having originally been published in the '70s, but has a second edition from 2004. I originally found it on the AH Booklist, actually. It must have been removed in one of the updates. Not sure why.
So in essence, a mercenary is likely someone already connected to an international social network of armed and experienced men, has connections to creditors and those who can liquify assets for short-term cash flow, and were reliable, at least, to their notions of fairness in the contract, but operated within a military system of astonishing cruelty. The most visible actions of infamous mercenaries, like John Hawkwood, likely have their root in failure of the client to furnish promised pay as they do in any inherent violence of contract soldiery.
What we find when we look at examples of mercenaries breaking contracts is actually that the clients were the ones who failed to live up to their end of the bargain. We can understand a great deal of mercenary mutiny throughout history not as the inherent vice of uprooted men who fought for pay but a consequence of men whose boss violated their agreement. This was labor agitation in the same way that guild and even peasant rebellions were; the tactics were the same and ranged from work stoppages - for mercenaries, that might mean refusal to muster or march, or withdrawing from a siege, or refusing to carry an attack until they were paid - to outright physical violence. English mercenary archers under Charles the Bold mutinied in 1474 over unpaid wages, and even fired on Charles as he tried to negotiate with them. John Hawkwood's career is full of escapades that were attempts to extract promised pay by one means or another, up to sacking the city of Faenza. This is not to say that this was a good act, at all; Faenza was an especially cruel and brutal act, and it was rumored that Hawkwood himself murdered a nun in the course of it. It was a product of a very cruel military system that worked within a very cruel political and economic system that victimized the countryside as a matter of course. The men who did the victimizing can themselves be seen (and certainly saw themselves) as a victimized group in some ways as well. Please, again, understand that I am not saying that murdered civilians are in any way comparable to unpaid mercenaries, but to understand the mechanics of this system we should confront the fact that discipline in military hosts was as often a product of pay as it was a product of leadership or directed (or undirected) cruelty.
Mercenaries, of course, have a pretty abominable reputation, and fiction that represents them tend to emphasize their inherently violent behavior, their untrustworthiness, their greed and avarice, but the thing is that this is how all armies were expected to behave. An army was a bad thing, full stop. It was full of wayward, violent men detached from their communities; community was a powerful way to direct those violent energies toward something less chaotic and murderous than an army. A community has systems of shaming and peer pressure and socially policed expectations of behavior, and an army breaks men free from those. So while at home these men probably wouldn't beat up a baker and steal his chickens, because that baker is their cousin Giuseppe whose mother taught them ribald rhymes, but in a different city, that baker is a guy with food, so who cares? Mercenaries were not an exception in either moral direction; violence, sexual violence, robbery, and arson were virtual certainties of any war fought by any group of men organized either as city hosts or mercenaries.
It's hard to find an example of a sustained military campaign any time in history that didn't involve troop mutinies or collective indiscipline over pay, and mercenaries were far from the exception. Switching sides was actually somewhat uncommon, but was usually a product of the client breaking a contract or failing to pay their troops, and the other side offering to pay them right now. Hawkwood was offered a very lucrative contract to switch sides after the aforementioned sack, but refused. Honesty was important, because a condottiero might only expect a few months of service at best, with frequent negotiations for renewals of contracts, and the somewhat bewildering politics of the period meant that a war could last decades or a just a few weeks, and making money as a hired man was never reliable; so your reputation of honesty and integrity was important. Men were careful not to run totally wild, but to do what we might consider heinous, hideous things in order to fulfill their end of the bargain for their men. Often that meant sacking and pillaging "friendly" territory, but breaking a contract was something seldom done without extensive and visible reasons.