The hospital that is billing you should, at the very least, be able to explain what services were rendered and why insurance didn’t cover it. If they didn’t bill insurance, they should be able to explain why not - and they should be able to do so. If they say they’re outside of timely filing limitations, they should be able to provide you with a claim form that you can submit to your insurance in the form of a grievance. If they did file an insurance claim, contact your insurance to dispute it. The hospital should be able to prove - maybe not to you, but to the insurance company if requested - that they confirmed the identity of the person they were treating (photo ID, signature on forms) because fraud does occur - people do fraudulently use other people’s insurance to obtain services.
4. Let’s say the paper work is all under your name, but you (assuming you’re not lying) weren’t there. Occasionally things get put under the wrong patients name. Make sure full name, DOB, social security all match up. It’s rare and we almost always catch it, but if that’s the case that Joe Schmo was in there and his entire time.
not sure what state you're in, but if you live in a state that does NOT require consent to record your phone conversations, then record them but still jot down the names of who you talked to and what date and time, meaning sometimes you'll need to ask the rep cuz sometimes these reps won't automatically divulge who they are unless you ask 'em (and sometimes even then, they're kinda antsy about it, or pretend they didn't hear you--you don't have to be combative about it, just saying something like it helps you to remember conversations for something as important as billing, or some such thing; you're not lying to them, you're just asking in a nice way, something that should be given willingly), so asking at the beginning of the conversation before they get defensive would be prudent; obviously if you live in a state that requires consent, write down copious notes, unless you think they will be open to you recording them.
IANAL. But I do work for a small hospital in the billing department, so I wanted to offer some info I think could be helpful.