There is no clear connection between Iwo Jima and the use of the atomic bombs that I can see, because there is no clear connection between fears of casualties from an invasion and the use of the atomic bombs. The idea that the atomic bombs were only dropped in order to avoid a bloody invasion is a complete after-the-fact myth, one meant to make the dropping of the bombs seem like an act undertaken in last resort. It's not true.
After WWII, of course, we have a history of nuclear weapons development which increased the destructive potential of such weapons by over 4 orders of magnitude, and massively increased their effectiveness through ballistic missiles, precision targeting, MIRVing, etc. To be clear, this is a revolutionary change in capability. In 1945 five tonnes of nuclear bomb gets you 20 kilotons of explosive yield and roughly 9 km^2 of destroyed urban area (shout out to NUKEMAP), in 1975 five tonnes would get you 40 thermonuclear warheads able to destroy 800 km^2 of urban area (most of Los Angeles).
From the perspective of WWII the atomic bombs were not extraordinarily exceptional in their destructiveness. The atomic attacks were neither the most deadly nor the most destructive aerial attacks of the war, even within the context of bombing attacks by the Allies on mainland Japan. And especially before the use of atomic bombs there were a lot of questions about just how effective they might be in war. Yes, they unleash a huge destructive power, but they are also very localized, in some ways more so than traditional bombing campaigns. These factors sort of balance out though, and even the WWII era atomic bombs turn out to be effective weapons when used on cities. Though before hand this could really only be guessed, or hoped.
The people who treated the atomic bombings as just "more efficient firebombing" tended to be either the military officers who implemented the operational plans (like LeMay) or the scientists who were involved with the assembly and use of the bombs on Tinian (like Ramsey and Alvarez). Which is an interesting grouping (and interesting who it doesn't include).