r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Regulations certainly increase cost. This is where it gets complicated and you have to dig into the weeds. Some regulations are actually good and worth the cost. Basic fire safety, for example. Others are stupid and just weapons for NIMBYs to block affordable housing.
In particular Native Americans. At least the African American population has steadily grown since the Atlantic Slave trade ended. Native Americans were nearly wiped out.
>The proposed reparations program is not a recompense for slavery, which was never legal in San Francisco, but instead, the committee’s report says, for “the public policies explicitly created to subjugate Black people in San Francisco by upholding and expanding the intent and legacy of chattel slavery.”.
Wow a dozen buildings a year for a major city? That's so much! /s. For a comparison, Tokyo (depending on the year) has similar or more new housing built than the entire state of California, despite being about 1/3rd the population. Because of that, housing is both far more affordable and the cost is fairly stable.
>As a result of the project's displacement of residents and businesses, its mixed and arguably discriminatory economic impact, and its design (featuring mid-century renewal concepts such as superblocks and strict separation of uses), the redevelopment of the Fillmore is considered by most to have been unsuccessful and regrettable. Post-redevelopment, encroaching gentrification and the physical decay of cheaply constructed housing complexes have led to a neighborhood of stark contrasts between rich and poor.
In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Not really. A lot of problems in impoverished African American communities would be alleviated by lifting them out of poverty. Same for impoverished white Americans, or impoverished Hispanic Americans. Better housing, rehabilitation centers, officially ending the war on drugs, stuff like this would help out all sects of America.