To that point, there are dozens (hundreds?) of pictures of the surrender ceremony, and there doesn't appear to be any kind of uniformity with the height of individuals that you can see. In the front row of individuals in , starting from the left and moving to the center of the frame, there are obviously some individuals who are notably taller than others. I still wouldn't say this disproves OP's question, though, because these are high-profile individuals from the Allied militaries. I couldn't name them all, but the one with a and his head tilted to the right is 4-star Admiral William "Bull" Halsey of the U.S. Navy. There were 9 Allied countries that signed the Instrument of Surrender, and those individuals stepped forward from , not at that row to the left in the above picture. From you can see the different uniforms of different countries represented. These individuals in close proximity to the ceremony itself wouldn't have been random officers; you would have had to be someone of significance to be there. And you wouldn't tell Admiral Halsey, or a high-ranking officer from an Allied nation, that he had to stand back because he wasn't tall enough. You could maybe suggest that common sailors who weren't VIPs had to be of a certain height, but given the sheer number of them crammed everywhere for the ceremony, sitting on top of the gun turrets and stacked in rows several ranks deep, it would seem unlikely to me.
What a great read. You kept me from my chores and opened my mind to a topic I have never considered. So cool.
That picture isn't the best for identifying the characteristics of a frock coat (although it's an excellent illustration of their use) since Wilson's coat is unusually loosely fitted while the other two men are wearing overcoats over their frock coats.
This might be a good question on its own! Some art historians and those with more knowledge about Eisenhower specifically could probably speak to that better than I could.
In general, think about the image that Eisenhower is portraying here. He is professional, understated, and not drawing excessive attention to his myriad accomplishments.