Anyone remember 10-15 years ago where we thought or at least assumed that Putin was some sort of mastermind, always playing 4d chess? And now it's obvious he's been kicked in the head a few many times, forces his impulsive & terrible decisions onto others, is completely disinterested in the massive suffering he causes his own people. We all assumed he was at least average intelligence, I mean he worked for the KGB Nope.
With Russia’s declining population demographics they can’t consider anyone undesirable. They’re facked every which way all thanks to Putin.
The only thing that nukes can have a positive impact for are planetary defense (that is, blowing up asteroids that are past the point of being able to send a spacecraft out to re-direct it; a last line of defense against asteroid-induced extinction) and perhaps for terraforming other planets, such as thickening Mars’s atmosphere by vaporizing its ice caps, helping to warm up the planet to the point that plant life could be seeded to oxygenate the atmosphere over a few millennia.
But this? This is no some spy bullshit. This is no small weak country. This is peer to peer war. And his skills are not transferable, obviously.
Their first attempt to capture Kyiv at the beginning of the war failed, and that’s when Ukraine was far less prepared, less armed, and less dug-in, and Russia hadn’t lost nearly 100,000 troops, thousands of tanks and armored vehicles, hundreds of aircraft and helicopters, and hadn’t yet wasted so many of their missiles terrorizing civilians that they now have to resort to converting old surface-to-air missiles into makeshift surface-to-surface missiles. Since then, Ukraine has received billions of dollars worth of arms and aid from around the world, has had months to train tens of thousands of new troops, has refined their battlefield tactics, and seriously damaged Russia’s command and logistics structures by killing dozens of high-ranking officers and damaging or destroying vital supply lines from Russia.