The build up of the Franco-Prussian War was about Leopold, Prince of Hohenzollern being offered the Spanish Throne. Leo wasn't crazy about it but was willing.
Elizabeth Endicott-West. The American Historical Review, Volume 96, Issue 1, February 1991, Page 227, calls the book "accurate and thorough, if not exactly groundbreaking", but mostly criticizes de Hartog's interpretation of Mongol society.
I did that touched on this. I don't have direct expertise, but people like Trevor Bryce and Richard Beal do: for the combined forces of the Hittites at their height, they suggest a figure in the neighbourhood of 55,000. For the battle of Kadesh, the largest engagement that we know of in the Bronze Age, Bryce suggests the Hittite forces present at the battle may have included around 40,000 Hittite soldiers and 10,000 mercenaries (Warriors of Anatolia, p. 168). It's still very speculative, though.
After the revolution, the absolutist monarchy gave way to another highly centralized and far more authoritarian regime, that has been established by the way of the violent revolution and maintained its position through quick sidelining and elimination of not only political enemies but also any supporters that were veering from the course set by the hardliners. Communists knew that to prevent the collapse of the system, they need to neutralize any form of dissent presented by anti-communists both domestic and foreign but also communists presenting different approach to the governance within the new political order. In addition, communists delegated to that task (Felix Dzerzhinsky et consortes) already had a deep understanding of working in conspiracy against the government as a decade or two earlier they were operating like that against the Russian monarchy (almost all of the early communist leaders were involved in such activities, most were caught and sentenced for political dissent, often more than once). This was evident from the beginning, but became especially clear during the tenure of Josef Stalin whose cabinet purged thousands of people that could have posed any tangential or potential threat to his party line, not counting equally if not more numerous people caught in the gears of the bureaucracy, so to speak. This was possible only through the establishment of the wide network of agents, but also deep infiltration of the entire society and recruitment or encouragement of the informants, greatly facilitated by the firm grasp over all facets of life by the government, virtually unimaginable in any liberal, democratic country.
Skaff, Jonathan. Middle East Studies Association Bulletin 35, no. 1 (2001): 92-93. This is the most critical review, and I'm mostly drawing on that review for the deficiencies mentioned.