One thing I only really noticed when you quoted the passage: while Liu An was perfectly ready to give the life of his wife for his lord, he was unwilling even to leave his mother's side in order to provide further service to that same lord. Am I correct in assuming that this is because while sacrificing the inferior in the husband-wife relationship to the cause of ones better would be praiseworthy, sacrificing, even in a much less literal sense, the superior in the parent-child relationship (lowly female as she may be) to the superior in the ruler-ruled relationship would not be?
Knapp, Keith. “Chinese Filial Cannibalism: A Silk Road Import.” China and Beyond in the Mediaeval Period: Cultural Crossings and Inter-Regional Connections, 2014.
If there is a normalization of these cannibalistic stories by medieval China, Luo Guanzhong writing in the Ming Dynasty would likely be less hesitant to explore ideas of filial piety and Confucian sacrifice through cannibalistic means.
This concept of “unfilial filiality” or “filial cannibalism” is an example of the evolution of Chinese culture from external forces. Filial cannibalism did not seem to occur frequently in China’s early history. There is an anecdote of Jie Zhitui cutting off his own flesh to feed his starving lord Cong’er, a somewhat similar story to Liu Bei and Liu An’s interaction. Other stories similar to Wang Wuzi’s tale occur in the Jiu Tangshu (舊唐書) or “Old Tang history”, but these are between figures of immense respect, as like with Jie Zhitui feeding his lord. Furthermore, there exists a degree of hesitation for cannibalism, which also indicates that such practices are uncommon and unheard of.
Cannibalism culturally speaking, draws the line between the “civilized” and the “barbarian”. In the early classics, Mencius was quoted with "even the devouring of animals by animals is repugnant to men". Sima Qian contrasts Confucius's most diligent disciple Yan Hui with Robber Zhi to establish the fundamental distinction between the sage and the flesh-eating barbarian. But throughout Chinese history, consumption of human flesh has been gone beyond isolated cases during wars and famines.