Edit 1. Dumbasses are downvoting who have 0 idea about Korean politics or the current assembly hearings about this. THEYRE BLAMING EACH OTHER RATHER THAN TAKING PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES FOR PREVENTING FUTURE INCIDENTS. They’ve been doing this for the past fucking 7 months. Idiots read one headline and go hivemind.
Overall as you touched on a bit, there's definitely use cases for air to air drones but at a certain point, you have to start asking yourself what is a drone and what is a missile, and whether you're better off developing large drones with long range and high speed that can keep up with your 6th gen fighter, that have their own munitions to counter drones. Or just creating smaller drone-specific munitions for the existing fighter.
While military assets can definitely INCLUDE drones, I'm not really seeing anything in the article stating that the focus is on developing drones to shoot down drones.
The big challenge with fielding drones to defend against drone attacks, is the limited warning you get considering the tiny radar cross section of a drone. You need a much faster "interceptor" drone to be able to catch up with the drone you're trying to target which will also necessarily cost substantially more than for example a Shahed-136 on account of needing to be faster, reusable, and having targeting systems and munitions besides quick and dirty onboard explosives.
Fair and valid. A lot of people have posted different and interesting ideas. I'd imagine more durable drones that act like flying screening device that synchs to other drones or weapons. But we'll see how the application develops. I've even heard of ideas of tanks being equipped for drones to help with urban combat in conjunction with ground infantry.
Literal trainwreck after trainwreck disaster. But all he does is nothing but deflect blame rather than plan an actual counter measure that would have meaningful effect. I’d say that’s a setback rather than a start.
Secondly you need a proper integrated defense network, that can detect targets as quickly as possible and prioritize them between different types of interceptors, you don't want to be shooting patriot missiles at Shaheds, but you might want to do just that for enemy aircraft / ballistic missiles. All of this is extremely expensive and difficult to build.