There's more that could be said about the grain argument, and I could be a lot more thorough about it, but I'm going to move on. McEvedy's on slightly better ground with the insulae argument, but it doesn't work. The information he's using is the Regionary Catalogues, or notitiae, of the fourth century, by which time Rome had actually experienced a significant population decline, so they're only used by demographers to fix a minimum population. The notitiae list buildings in each of the Augustan regions of the city using the formulaic verb "continet," followed by a list of buildings and neighborhood magistrates, beginning with any temples and public buildings and ending with the total measurement of the region. It's possible, and it's been argued before, that the insulae listed on the notitiae are not full buildings, but the argument is strained. First of all, the notitiae say "insulae." They do not say "partes insularum" or "cubicula insularum" or anything like that. They literally say "apartment blocks." If that's supposed to mean units within apartment blocks the usage would be utterly unique in the entire corpus of Latin literature, and wouldn't make a lot of sense--an insula is literally an island, because the building, being unconnected to other residences, resembles an island in space. The argument might be made that the notitiae list insulae off in the nominative, whereas the fomula "continet..." requires the accusative, which is elsewhere used. That's torpedoed by the fact that if insulae is supposed to be a genitive it needs to be plural insularum (unless there's only a single, gigantic, cyberpunk-style mega-insula in the entire region) and by the fact that the notitiae frequently mistake the nominative for accusative (e.g. vici for vicos). Further, it's illogical. When the notitiae list buildings they're clearly listing off the entire building, not parts of it. This is most apparent with the temples and public buildings, which are listed individually, but it's also apparent from the storage houses (horrea) and bakeries (pistrina) listed, which cannot be broken down into units. Domus are also present in the notitiae. The notitiae, immediately under every listing of insulae, list the number of domus in the region. There is certainly no chance, linguistically, that domus might be used to refer to a unit within a house rather than the entire house. Impossible. And even if we imagine the impossible, we are faced with the problem of trying to divide into standardized units private urban mansions, which is dodgy at best. Unless for some reason insulae alone are getting some special, unprecedented, treatment, it seems safe to assume that these are entire buildings that are being counted. As a final note, McEvedy's certainty about the space that these insulae would take up is misplaced. The Forma Urbis, which heavily fragmentary, seems to support in broad strokes the general information of the notitiae, and in any case we're quite certain that the city at its height was extremely (and dangerously) densely developed.
Thank you so much! I liked his book on cities in the classical world in general, but all the info on population seemed way off, even if he tried explaining his reasoning. He also stated that Athens was maximum 40,000 including spillover from the city walls and that Thessaloniki was only like 10,000 during the Roman period. He didn’t really give a lot of reasoning to why London was max 6,000-7,000 either. Some of his estimates about Alexandria being over 100k seemed far more reasonable though.