The landing of Captain James Cook in Botany Bay, 1770, is often wrongly attributed to be the moment of European discovery and British claiming of Australia.
Cook also didn't claim all of Australia, and didn't do so at Botany Bay - he did so on 'Possession Island', in the Torres Strait, claiming 'New South Wales', which did not include Dutch 'New Holland' until the founding of Swan River Colony in 1829. A British colony in Australia was by no means inevitable - convict colonies were also being considered for parts of Africa, and had they been chosen instead, Cook's voyages would have been as poorly remembered as those of other Europeans before and after. After all, nothing came of Dutch and French claims or proclamations.
In this regard there is little doubt that Caviglia handled things differently – first by introducing ad hoc indemnities, a liquidation of insurances, free transportation, a package of surplus clothing items for released men – second by providing officers with a much better treatment, inclusive not only of larger indemnities, but of special provisions such as being placed in undetermined leave to their place of residence upon request – third by halting the demobilization process almost entirely. Which was, financially speaking, a rather dramatic move and certainly agreed with the government of Orlando and Sonnino. While Caviglia justified his choice with logistic issues, transport limitations, public order and unemployment concerns, these considerations may explain a slow down of demobilization but not its complete interruption which appeared to take place during the months of April-June 1919 in coincidence with the peak of the diplomatic crisis surrounding the Adriatic question.
The explanation of a large army being perceived as conductive of a positive outcome for peace negotiations may sound a bit backwards – if only because the Allies openly complained about it and most of Italy's eastern neighbors weren't likely to take a charitable view of Italy's logistic struggles – and given that the vague ideas of a possible war with Yugoslavia or Turkey were dismissed by Caviglia himself during his tenure, one has to trust the general picture for a perhaps still unsatisfying political explanation. That Orlando regarded a process of rapid demobilization as more problematic than a further increase in the already dramatic Italian deficit; since it would have been almost impossible to call the released men back if necessary (not that there were actual strategic needs but, better safe than sorry), since it would have increased social tension (which Orlando had been growing increasingly concerned with), possibly alarmed the “national” field (upon which Orlando had been increasing his reliance since the ministerial adjustment of January 1919) as somewhat of a defeatist measure or providing insufficient rewards for the veterans, possibly created further troubles with the military and the High Command, and last the issue of demobilization carried in itself the problem of a reform of the army, which Orlando, for both practical, contingent reasons and due to his personal character, was likely to postpone.
Cook only became a captain after his explorations of Australia were over. He was not the first European to visit Australia by any means - there may have been Portuguese or Spanish claimants to that title, but the first known European to sight Australia was the Dutchman Willem Janzsoon in 1606, followed by many other Dutchmen working for the VOC. Cook was also not the first Englishman - the Indiaman Tryall, attempting to follow the Dutch 'Brouwer route' to the East Indies, became the first European shipwreck in Australian waters in 1622, and the pirate/adventurer William Dampier later landed in north-western Australia in 1688, writing several popular accounts of his voyages, which went on to inspire people like Cook and Joseph Banks, the botanist who accompanied him.
Marzona, A. - Les incidents franco-italiens de Fiume ou l’expression des frustrations italiennes (novembre1918-juillet1919), Revue historique des armées, 254, 2009, 29-38.