OK, so to answer this question we need three things. First, an understanding of the modern historiography / academic debate about pre-modern nationalism; second, a sense of the genealogy of 'nation' as a historical term/concept; third, an understanding of the intellectual/cultural history of Roman conceptions of political and social identification. I am not a classicist, so my thoughts on the third point are entirely based on my reading of some of the historiography, but since my area of professional expertise is early modern conceptions of nationality, the first two are well within my wheelhouse.
I have not! Unfortunately I am bot super well read up on the topic, which unfortunately means I have to ask the classic thesis defense guy-who-isn't-super-familiar-with-the-topic question: does it matter here that the socii lost? Or rather even if they did extract political concessions to end the war, the concessions were to bring Italians into Roman citizenship, rather than the replacement of a Roman state with an Italian one? Or is the argument more that the exact political configuration is not relevant? I can see an idea of how the integration occurred regardless (eg most of the Augustan literary figures were not strictly speaking from Rome).
mentioned earlier. I do think that Italy between the completion of the census in 70 BCE and 48 CE qualifies as a nation-state.
EDIT: I found an Insomnia for the win This was struck in 70 BCE, the year the Italians were finally included in the census. Italia is on the left of the reverse, holding a cornucopia, and Roma is on the right, with her foot on a globe. Crawford 403/1 is the reference. Also, paging /u/Taiko.
One conclusion I definitely did take out of my research was that C19th Western European nationalism was historically 'weird,' and a lot of the arguments surrounding other cases of 'potential nationalism' are implicitly Eurocentric in their construction, in much the same way that, say, arguments about indigenous farming techniques which refute the hunter-gatherer interpretation of indigenous societies often reflect an implicit hierarchy of civilisation that defaults to agriculture as a sign of sophistication.
Thank you for your answer! Though to be honest, I had to read it a dozen times before I could get the hang of it. Sociology is not my strong point, after all.
In the right corner were a rag-tag mix of literary and theological scholars, medieval historians, and renegade political scientists, such as Susan Reynolds, Adrian Hastings, and Liah Greenfield, who noted that their research indicated very strong senses of ‘national identity’ in their pre-modern subjects, and bristled at the arbitrary relegation of their historical subjects as ‘proto-nationalism’ by people who had no significant expertise in these earlier periods. The understandings of nationalism that these scholars had varied – some saw nationalism as being ‘constructed’ by medieval or even ancient polities before the French revolution, while others saw it as an endemic or even ‘primordial’ feature of human communities.
I pulled out my hair over this stuff for ten years. There isn't nearly enough work done on them. Crawford, for instance, in a fit of pedantry, left the Italian coinage out of RRC, because they aren't technically Roman coins..... sigh.
To make things more complicated, there's a series of Roman coins issued after the Social War that on the reverse has Italia and Roma shaking hands. I wish I could find an image.
In the left corner were political scientists and some political science-influenced historians such as Krishan Kumar and John Breuilly, who followed in the tradition of Eric Hobsbawm, Ernst Gellner and others in insisting that nationalism was exclusively a modern phenomenon – also known as the ‘modernist’ position. Without going too deeply into their specific claims, these scholars had a few things in common: they were generally historians of post-French revolution subjects, and had little expertise on earlier history; they were frequently influenced by Marxist ways of thinking about historical periodisation; they generally observed myth-making about the past as a key feature of modern nationalisms; and they were generally hostile to these modern nationalisms.
One more problem is knowing who the audience for these coins are meant to be. They're consistent in weight with Roman coins struck at the same time. So are they meant to pass the ideology down to the Italian rank and file? Or are they meant to circulate in Roman markets?
Also, in the late 16th century, nation comes to much more explicitly include women and the poor as significant contributors to collective character and thus moral status: thus you see books printed for the ‘English huswife’ that talk about how cultivating (pun intended) the English industriousness of character in its women is absolutely vital to the nation’s reputation and dignity. This is a sharp change from the early C16th, when nation is more commonly used to refer to the community in contexts within which the actions of the elites – be they monarchs, soldiers, or the clergy – overwhelmingly define the nation’s moral character and reputation.
You see, nation is especially often used to refer to the community in the context of its interactions with other communities, and particularly in the context of commenting on the moral and social character of those communities. When comparing, say, the customs and characters of the English and the Spanish, these communities will usually be referred to as nations, not, say, countries or kingdoms. Because reputation played such a key role in one’s self in the Early Modern world (see John Jeffries Martin on this!), this was very important: when someone is accused of bringing one’s nation into disrepute, or alternately praised for bringing glory to the nation, that carries huge moral weight. This is still a thing, by the way – look at how outsized a role ‘national honour’ plays in public discourse around the beginning of World War I, for example.