Good afternoon and welcome to Q and A for the panel, I Make the Governor Call Me Governor: Rewriting the History of Women's Agency! This panel discussed different ways women have exerted their agency throughout history, especially in spaces dominated by men. The panel features:
In my particular field of history, it's not so much the gender history that's an issue (we have a very vocal and dynamic contingent of Scottish gender historians working in all periods), but the lack of contextualisation with other subfields of Scottish history or through comparative history. We get deep into our subfields—legal history, political history, gender history, social history—and forget that our subjects did not exist in a vacuum. We also really need to ramp up engagement with digital humanities and other emerging methodologies, and I may or may not have just recently told a room of Scottish historians that we are siloed, conservative and behind-the-times (and that we need to do better).
I'm going to cheat and ask a more general question. For all the panelist, is there somewhere we can read or see more of your work? Everyone was excellent and I'd like to learn more.
In both academic and popular representations, the Anglo-Scottish border region of the late medieval and early modern periods has been cast as a violent, lawless and masculine arena. Any mention of Borderers evokes the image of swords clashing and the sound of epic romantic ballads that chronicle the heroism and villainy of border raiders and their kin. In recent decades, life in the borders has been further explored and the culture of violence and conflict better understood with historians like Jackson Armstrong (2020) advancing strong arguments about the positive and organisational role that violent raiding and feuding played in regulating social, cultural and economic relationships. In short, what modern observers and the early Scottish state considered messy and chaotic, the borderers themselves understood as a crucial part of a stable economy and productive conflict resolution. What is missing from recent assessments of life in the borders, however, is the involvement of women. Several scholars have asserted that women were excluded from the raiding and feuding that characterised border society. On the one hand, this is true: it would appear that the English and Scottish men who made their living trafficking goods and livestock across the border tacitly agreed to leave women and children unharmed during their escapades. However, historians have perhaps been too quick to dismiss the involvement of women in the feuding culture of this region. The records of Scotland’s highest criminal court are not the juiciest or most detailed documents but reading between the lines offers a glimpse into the ways that noblewomen related to prominent border families engaged in legitimate uses of violence typically reserved for men. The judicial responses, or lack thereof, to these women suggest that society perceived them as acting well within their social and political roles.
Sure! I have been on AH for a while, so you can look at my responses to older questions. I haven't been too active lately because of the thesis.
Sandburg's article also tells the wonderful story of Francoise de Cezelly, a noblewoman, the wife of the governer of Leucate – when Spanish and Catholic League forces captured him and marched on the city, she organised the town’s defences and prepared for a siege. They threatened to kill her husband unless she surrendered the city, but she refused to succumb, witnessing his death but staying strong for the people of her city - and even denied her men the chance to kill a captured Catholic League supporter in return. She expressed mercy, strenh, and practicality, and after several failed attempts, the Spanish and Catholic League withdrew and abandoned the siege – Henri IV made Cezelly governor of Leucate, and allowed her to pass the office to her son (there's further discussion of this in Barbara Diefendorff's 'Beneath the Cross', p84-92).
^1. 'Catching Fire: Arson, Rough Justice and Gender in Scotland, 1493–1542'. In Crossing Borders: Boundaries and Margins in Medieval and Early Modern Britain. Essays in Honour of Cynthia J. Neville, edited by Sara M. Butler and K. J. Kesselring, 153–73. Leiden: Brill, 2018.
For me it's deeply personal - I will admit to getting choked up in the archives when I come across something special I think when you spend so long - sometimes years and years - studying someone, especially someone that you think has been maligned by history and historians, it's natural to develop a connection. You're deeply invested in their life, their opinions, their actions. I don't necessarily think this is a bad thing, partly because I don't believe there's ever such a thing as 'objective' truth in history, but it's important to stress - as I think I do in the discussion - that this doesn't always equate to 'liking' the people we study. I respect Catherine-Marie de Lorraine's strenh, intelligence, and perseverance, but I doubt we'd have been friends.