"When the need for leave is not foreseeable, the employee must provide notice to the employer as soon as practicable under the facts and circumstances of the particular case. Absent unusual circumstances, employees must comply with the employer’s usual and customary notice and procedural requirements for requesting leave.".
If you continue to have medical issues that make you need to leave the line immediately, you may need to see if you would be eligible for modified duty while you get the issue addressed with your doctor.
Yes. It has been stated by my Doctor, and documented in my FMLA paperwork at work, that should an event occur, it is not safe for me to operate the machinery. I left and sought my Doctors care ASAP.
(c) Complying with employer policy. When the need for leave is not foreseeable, an employee must comply with the employer's usual and customary notice and procedural requirements for requesting leave, absent unusual circumstances. For example, an employer may require employees to call a designated number or a specific individual to request leave. However, if an employee requires emergency medical treatment, he or she would not be required to follow the call-in procedure until his or her condition is stabilized and he or she has access to, and is able to use, a phone. Similarly, in the case of an emergency requiring leave because of a FMLA-qualifying reason, written advance notice pursuant to an employer's internal rules and procedures may not be required when FMLA leave is involved. If an employee does not comply with the employer's usual notice and procedural requirements, and no unusual circumstances justify the failure to comply, FMLA-protected leave may be delayed or denied.
Yes. The day I returned to work, from FMLA, about an hour into my shift I was given this notice and sent home "balance of shift", which resulted in losing 8.9 hours of pay.
The issue is the discipline I received upon returning to work, for using FMLA, and the lost pay due to that discipline.