Before we continue, a word on definitions. Rape is a term that can be applied to essentially any sexual relationship between an enslaved person and their master. The practical forms which master-slave sexual relations took ran the gamut from brutal and forced submission to 'real' relationships, but it cannot be separated from the framework in which they occurred, namely the actual legal ownership of the enslaved woman and rights to her body. No matter how willfully a slave-woman (or man) acquiesced to a sexual relationship, their consent within that framework cannot be entirely separated from the fact that the consent was not required, and was given with that understanding. It is a balancing act, really, as we both don't want to overlook the systemic framework in which the sexual relationship occured, but as the same time in looking at it broadly, we musn't deny the agency of some slave women who, within that framework, nevertheless did at times have some choice, however limited. Put another way, if asked "Was it always rape?" the answer is "Yes, but no, but yes": The power-dynamic intrinsically places it within that framework; but we shouldn't deny the women agency; but we then shouldn't overcorrect and let that agency trump the fact that they had no choice to be within the system which gave them the limited choices they did have. On a macro level, yes, it was always rape, but that shouldn't stop us from seeking to understand the intricacies and realities of the actual lived experiences of those enslaved women (and men).
This brings us to one of the most abhorrent aspects of sexual abuse of enslaved women (and to be sure, there are many contenders for that dubious title) is how it shaped the views of sexual abuse and rape of white women though. Although it is rare to find it stated in blatant terms, it is possible to find allusions to the fact that, in the view of white Southern gentlemen, rape was a worse crime in the South than in the North, since "these offenses in slave states had not the excuse which might be adduced to diminish their gravity when the occurred in States where all the population were white", or put more simply, you had no excuse for raping a white woman since there were black women for you to rape instead. Southern men were proud of the low (white women) rape rates in the South, and the general lack of prostitution (although the truth of the claim seems to be in doubt). Some moralists went even further in their "defense", alluding to beliefs about female sexuality the use of black slaves to vent the 'excess lusts' of a husband were a benefit to the wife in their minds.
Now, as to the matter of masters (and younger male family members, and overseers) and their sexual relations with enslaved women in the antebellum South, it was fairly common. There was a decided view of the black woman as being naturally promiscuous and sexual (compared to the belief in white women being chaste and demure) which only helped to encourage the behavior. But although it was a common occurrence, it was definitely not something talked about in polite company, and doubly not around women, although they often knew what was going on - speaking of the sexual relations that the menfolk took, the famed diarist Mary Chesnut wrote of black women that "we live surrounded by prostitutes". It was essentially something that most of white society would just pretend didn't happen, no matter what the evidence, of which it often could be fairly clear, as recalled by one slave:
So to sum all of this up... there were a few very basic human rights that a slave nominally held in the Antebellum South, but in practical terms, yes, "a plantation owner in Pre-Civil War America [could] rape and murder a slave with no consequences" as the laws were quite flexible to ensure the white masters wide latitude in their dealings with the enslaved black underclass.
Wow really great response. When I used Ancestry I found out my 3rd great grandfather was a white man who had a relationship with a black woman (I don’t know if she was his slave or what).