But here the border between religious text and academic text is often not really clear. There are journals that publish Jewish scholarship that might affect religious practice, and where most pieces are written by Rabbi-academics, where their bio will mention both their Rabbinic ordination and their degrees. Some publish pieces in both Hebrew and English. Both are intended for the audience of a combination of academics (who are mostly Jewish), Jewish clergy, and educated laymen. While both are written for slightly different audiences (the Hebrew being more for Israelis, the English for Americans) in reality the audience can mostly read both, it's a question of who'll have an easier time (and decide to pick it as what they'll read from a variety of articles).
There are other Tibetan year styles. One starts from 146 B.C.E. dating to the alleged origin of the Tibetan Royal House with Nyatri Tsenpo. Who was allegedly a contemporary of Ashoka. Who... ahem lived in the 200s B.C.E. It's funny, Karma Phuntsho usually says that the Bhutanese and Tibetans were actually traditionally terrible historians, unable to critically associate the years and ages of things in front of them, or just more willing to promote the idea without too much critical thinking that certain figures are contemporaries, or that they were living in the apocalypse 5,000 years after the start of Buddhism (in reality, we've only just reached the half way point to the alleged Buddhist apocalypse).
Wow, that's so interesting! When I asked I had in mind Persian/Iranian and Chinese historians, but I think for this purpose Jewish historiography is adequately "non-western." I have a some Jewish history specific questions as well, but no time to read long responses in the near future so I'll save em'. Good to know you're here though.
There's also a Tibetan Year 0 that starts with a successor of Nyatri Tsenpo's called Lhathothori Nyantsen who was given a book called "The Ferocious Secret" which no Tibetan could read (because writing hadn't been introduced to Tibet yet), and dates Year 0 from 255 C.E. Another calendar starts from the year the Rabjung was introduced to Tibet (1027 C.E.) and counts up from there. Neither of these three systems is in current use and takes a bit of context. (I.e. the Tibetan Currency issued 1912-1950 uses the 146 B.C.E. numbers, probably to draw a level of continuity from the first Tibetan sovereign to the Independent Tibetan State.).
The main conclusion seems to be that in the case of academic writing by and for a traditional Jewish audience, BCE/CE dates in Arabic numerals are used in English, and a mixture of BCE/CE in Arabic numerals and Hebrew dates in Hebrew letters in Hebrew-language writing.
Without doing a detailed survey, just looking through the articles in the last few issues, the English-language work virtually always uses dates in Arabic numerals in CE. Hebrew is more mixed. There is a clear tendency to use either CE dates with Arabic numerals or Hebrew dates in Hebrew letters (Hebrew dates in Arabic numerals pop up sometimes too, but not here). Even within a particular piece, there's variation. Citations to English-language secular tend to use CE dates, but narratives and dates of traditional-format text tend to use Hebrew dates (but not always). Some articles have a tendency to use one in the main text and a different in the footnotes, but with little consistency between articles.