Katzell and Austin (1992) identified four major non-psychology forces that emerged between Catell's early work and the outbreak of WWI that fueled massive growth in personnel selection practices:
Thank you for your reply. Lots of good information there. There is one aspect that your answer doesn't touch on, that I'm curious about, and that is economics.
- Increasing acceptance of Darwinian evolutionary concepts, including the bastardized application of natural selection to personnel selection.
Prove me wrong though. Show me a source of a contemporary account of a person wanting a job, but then being turned away because of economical reasons. I can't imagine a coal company telling a prospective coal worker "Sorry, we can't hire you because we already have enough coal miners employed already that are digging up as much coal as the market can bear to buy" Of course modern workers get told this all the time...
Koppes, L. L. (Ed.). (2014). Historical perspectives in industrial and organizational psychology. Psychology Press.
This makes sense, because in the 1800s, almost every job was done manually. The more people that are hired, the more profit the company can make. So it doesn't make sense to reject anyone. Therefore it doesn't make sense to do interviews.
- Basic advances in statistical concepts that made forecasting performance via statistical inference possible.
Take for example a logging company. In the 1890s, trees were only cut down by hand. Maybe it took 10 men one day to cut down a single tree and then lug it back to the sawmill. If the logging company only hired 10 men, then their output is 1 tree per day. If they hired 20 men, then their output would be 2 trees/day. If they hired 50 people, their output was 5 trees/day, etc. If would be stupid for a logging company to turn away anyone who was willing and able to work for them.
Now-a-days, logging companies cut down trees by machine. One machine can cut down probably 100 trees a day, and they are hauled to the sawmill by diesel truck. It only takes one man to drive the truck, and one man to operate the tree cutting machine. Therefore, its not a simple as "hire more people, make more profit". The modern day logging company only needs to hire enough people to operate their machinery and no more, therefore they need a mechanism to reject excess people that apply to work there.