Alright people, the report made by the FBI/DoE is of "low confidence." As someone who went to college for a degree in Intelligence Analysis, this is fancy talk for "We're taking a shot in the dark and we don't really believe this." Saying you assess something with low confidence is also something frowned upon in the intelligence community as it means you're not sure of what you're even trying to say is true.
Speaking from the viewpoint of someone who went to college for Intelligence Analysis, I can confirm that a report assessed with low confidence is little more than speculation/is a technical way for an analyst to say "Yeah this shit is unlikely to be true." Hell, one of my professors straight up told my class "Don't start a report with 'We assess with low confidence' as it means the opposite of what you're trying to claim is true.".
The Chinese lost the presumption of innocence when they actively obstructed the investigation. Including but not limited to: lying to investigators, intimidating witnesses and destroying evidence.
It's about time. Only YEARS behind. Trump Derangement Syndrome on my side of the aisle is the ONLY reason this hasn't been considered as an absolute certainty by now. Only 3 labs/ cities on earth, out of thousands, do coronavirus research on bats, with the epicenter just happening to be at a market under a half mile away from one, where workers regularly stop to shop before heading home. (Galveston, Chapel Hill, and Wuhan).
“The En­ergy De­part­ment’s con­clusion is the re­sult of new in­tel­li­gence and is sig­nif­i­cant be­cause the agency has con­sid­er­able sci­en­tific ex­per­tise and over­sees a net­work of U.S. na­tional lab­o­ra­to­ries, some of which con­duct ad­vanced bi­o­log­i­cal re­search.”.
Could be wrong. I was just always under the impression it happened. My brain always thought unknown illness, China started studying it with gain of function. Months after an outbreak leaks, month or so later after that a pandemic breaks. My mind could be wrong.
It's not speculation that only 3 places on earth do coronavirus research on bats, and that the epicenter origin was traced to under a half mile away from the only such lab outside of the USA, at a market where lab employees regularly stop to shop on their way home.
It does though. Translated from the parlance used by intelligence analysts, if an assessment has low confidence in something, it is unlikely that whatever is being assessed will happen. For example: "We assess with low confidence that the current provisional government of Stanistan will remain stable if the United States stops providing civilian advisors, military support, and financial aid that may currently be integral to its survival," translates to "It's unlikely that the Stanistani government we've been supporting will last long without our continued assistance.".
It is a fact, not Sinophobia propaganda, that the Chinese actively obstructed the investigation into the pandemic’s origin.
It's not maybe. The hospitals in Wuhan were most definitely inundated with sick people like never before, long before the supposed original infection. They most definitely suddenly spent millions of dollars without explanation on new HVAC filtration systems. The missing workers who had reported getting suddenly sick had most definitely vabished. I bring up msm because nothing at all was reported that would give any credence at all to those facts, and because msm doggedly continued the false claims that the virus had DEFINITELY began in the wet market, and that the lab had DEFINITELY not conducted research on bats.