I’d heard elsewhere that Swedish iron ore was critical to the German war effort, making up 90% of ore used or something like that. Is this based on older data? Cause I’d heard this multiple places, if this is not true, why is it so widespread?
Sweden ended the transit agreement allowing the Germans to move food, tobacco and medical supplies and troops on leave on the Swedish railway netwrok in August 1943 and stopped selling iron ore to the Germans in October 1944, after feeling that German defeats had weakened them and the continued re-armament of the Swedish armed forces had progressed to an extent that Sweden felt that the Germans would deem it too difficult to take on Sweden.
Had Sweden refused to export iron ore, Germany would most certainly have invaded Sweden to secure it, and since Germany could starve Sweden of coal, the Swedish army would be unable to move and thus resist, and the Germans could have access to the full Swedish iron ore production capacity, some 30 million tons yearly instead of the 10 million tons they got.
Germany was not realiant on Swedish iron ore - Swedish iron ore was convenient, and from September 1939, when France declared war and the French ore from the mines in Alsance-Lorraine (which the Germans had continued to use despite losing that territory in the Versailles Peace Treaty 1919) until the Germans gained control of the French and Belgian iron mines in Summer 1940, the Swedish ore was important, if not vital to the Germans. Considering the Germans imported some ore and scrap iron from the Soviets (along with other raw materials such as oil) from the Soviets, had the Swedish ore been unavailable, the Germans could have sourced ore from the Soviets, or increased their own domestic production. The high iron content of Swedish ore (up to 65% compared to European 30-32%) lowered the cost of transport, refining and smelting the ore and making steel out of it - a ton of steel from Swedish ore had about half the cost compared to European ore for Germany.
Swedish iron ore made up 90% of German imports from September 1939 to about June 1940 since the German steel mills in the Ruhr area were set up to use ore from Alsace-Lorraine since before 1914 - this had not changed with the Versailles treaty and the area becoming French again - the infrastructure was still in place and worked well - the German steel mills simply imported the ore from France. This was of course cut off when France declared war, and the Swedish iron ore became more important to Germany before they captured the French (and Belgian) mines in Summer 1940.
Germany had a domestic production of 4,8 million tons in 1939, which increased to 13,4 million tons in 1941 when they gained control of the French and Belgian mines. As a comparison, Sweden exported 10 million tons of ore yearly to Germany, which was reduced to 7,5 million tons in 1943 (although the ratio of high iron content ore was increased to keep the Germans from getting too unhappy).
Germany had an alternate source of ore in the Soviet Union should Sweden had ended exports - Stalin was happy to provide scrap metal, oil, food and many other vital resources in exchange for machine tools and some technical documents up right to the day of Operation Barbarossa.