Now I must also preface the Ottoman State is quite literally the breadth of a continent away from my area of (partial) expertise, and the author from the aforementioned source, , clearly has written extensively on the topic. He is however a military historian, his area of focus is not conceptions of continuity or ethno-cultural identity, which is more relevant to this, so the chances of a slight oversight is always a possibility.
Thank you for the response! Could you recommend some reading by Halil Inalcik? That early syncretism sounds like a fascinating period of state builing.
"I, who am the sultan of sultans of the east and west, and possessor of the auspicious [planetary] conjunction of the lands of Rum and Persia and the Arabs, granter of thrones to the monarchs of the world, shadow of God who is the munificent king, servant of the two holy sanctuaries, the second Alexander, Emperor and Sultan and great sovereign of that most honorable and holy of lands and cities, revered Mecca and luminous and great Medina, and Jerusalem, and the Mediterranean and Black seas, and Egypt, and Yemen, and Aden, and Sana, and Baghdad the abode of peace, and Basra and Lahsa [el-Hasa], and the Jazira, and Azerbaijan, and the Pontic Steppe and the lands of the Tatars, and Diyarbekir and Georgia and Sivas and Maraş and Ethiopia and Damascus the abode of peace, and Aleppo and Tripoli and Van and Erzurum and Çıldır and the land of Shirvan, and the provinces of Anatolia and Karaman, and the countries of Wallachia and Moldavia, and the regions of the Turks and Daylamites, and the desire of kings, the abode of the sublime sultanate, the well-protected Istanbul, and the western islands [Algeria] which is the abode of jihad and war, and Tunis and the island of Cyprus and Rhodes, and all of Rumelia and Temeşvar and Bosnia and Buda and Eğri and Sigetvar and Kaffa and Trabzon, and a great many other prosperous lands of their like, and a great many fortresses with height reaching to the celestial spheres - I, the sultan Ahmed Khan son of Sultan Mehmed Khan son of Sultan Murad Khan son of Sultan Selim Khan son of Sultan Süleyman Khan...".
This simply isn't true, at all. This is also a misconception I've seen before, bizarrely enough also in Wikipedia. As an aside, I've noticed there seems to be some person(s) on Wikipedia utterly obsessed with putting something to the effect of "The Ottomans called themselves the Roman Empire" somewhere in the Ottoman Empire wikipedia page, it's been a little edit war for some time now. I'll speak no further of it, but it was worth mentioning.