Gengis Khan and Attila the Hun were ambitious conquerors who are seen in a very dark light in popular culture. Alexander the Great, a similarly ambitious conqueror, is highly regarded as a brilliant military leader. Is this an eurocentric bias or is there a deeper reason? 6,357.
The traditional meaning is attributed to this people role into salt production, but I don't think this is obvious : it's true the Rhone Delta became an important place for salt production thanks to salty marshes, but was it that important in the Vth to IInd centuries, critically as the "core" of Salyes seems to rather be in the foothills and the main salines being in a relatively peripheral area?
Let's say I am a German who fled Germany in 1933 to the UK or the USA. When the war breaks out I want to support the allied war effort against Nazi Germany. What are my options? 2,692.
It's not as much wrong, that it's not an history book, but a learned tale with historical details that, at least for the time period, were considered accurate (not unlike the Three Musketeers or the Hunchback of Notre Dame) with stress on violence, sex and rock'n roll for literary value.
I see, thank you! Was the Pompeii economy driven largely by tourism? Did any philosophers, writers, military personnel, merchants, etc. live in Pompeii full time?
Wondering about a confirming a tentative etymology of Salyes (Salues), traditionally considered as derivated from a root meaning "salt" either in Celtic or in "Ligurian".
Giving what we know from Ligurian is extremely limited, to the point its existence isn't certain, and assuming a Gaulish character of at least most of the important Celto-Ligurian peoples, we could consider salo/a for salt, or sali/a for salty.
Maybe "Salty" could be a reference to the Salyes geographical position, being the closest to the sea of all Celto-Ligurian peoples. An etymology based on geographic location would have the benefit being much more present in Gaulish ethnoyms, in my opinion. Thoughts?
Pompeii was an extremely popular vacation spot for the ancient Romans, though it was more like Vegas and Cancun in one, since it was located by extremely beautiful beaches.
Heh. It's a romanticized narrative that follows what's called the roman national, basically the popular and semi-official national French historiography in the XIXth and early to mid XXth centuries.Druon never hid that it was a bread and butter work, with a lot of collaborators having written the texts too so, he more or less edited the narrative within.