It starts with the way you're asking the question. How do you know the god didn't appear? What would it mean for the god to appear?
There are lots of ways a god might "appear" to a human being. An excellent example are Greek incubation cults. In the Asclepius temples, suppliants would go to sleep in the temple and the god would appear to them in their dreams to tell them how to cure their diseases. In some accounts, the god actually appeared and actually cured them. So here we have two ways a god might appear to a person: in a dream, or in reality (more on that below). What about oracular temples? At Delphi, Apollo "appeared" by speaking through the Sybil. In the book of Acts, God doesn't appear, but people are healed by pieces of cloth that Paul had touched (19:11-12), so God's power is made physically manifest (and yes, that's a literary example, but it's not "fiction" in the modern sense--Luke is telling us something about his worldview and the way he thinks divinity works).
Your mistake is to assign value. The ancients aren't bad for believing in Gods, but modern humans aren't bad for trying to explain them, either.
Ancient people understood the world as well as they could without the philosophy, logic, and methods we've spent thousands of years developing, so there's nothing wrong with believing in gods. We can also readily show how people today can honestly swear by things that never happened - the placebo effect, believers in the Loch Ness monster who see tree stumps as curved necks, etc. These people aren't lying. They genuinely experience these things. And in the absence of impartial modern science, no one has any reason to question them. They're not bad things.
If you want something super academic, Phenomenology and Mysticism by Steinbock covers the theoretical/phenomenological aspect and addresses a few different individual mystics.
The first few chapters are exactly what you're looking for. Medieval mystics and other holy women, at least as they wrote it, turned food, eating, and not eating into acts of religious devotion and ecstasy.
Well, Western culture severely devalues spirituality. For a concrete example, look at the way the OP is worded. A lot of modern Westerners just assume that spirituality is sort of a personal way of relating to the world but not actually REAL. It's perfectly acceptable on most of Reddit for people to say things like, "All religions are cults" or berate people for finding value in, say, astrology, without ever looking into how religion actually functions in non-abusive situations, or asking that person what it is they find valuable about astrology. Even among religious people there's a scale of how seriously to take different types of spirituality. Something I run into a LOT in my work (ancient Christianity) is the tacit assumption that polytheists aren't REALLY polytheists, because that would be ridiculous. They've just never heard of anything better.