This isn't my area of expertise but those numbers do seem unbelievable at first glance. The book referenced in the Wikipedia article stresses the facts that its figures are tentative, and "should be taken with a pinch of caution and pound of scepticism".1 Having looked at some more recent work, it appears that the death rate was closer to 15-20%. (Edited to add that this % is still huge!).
I'm originally a specialist in nineteenth-century Ireland but have a strong secondary interest in the seventeenth-century. An initial comment on the question is to unpack the idea of an "English Civil War." That's now totally out of favour and the idea of a "Wars of the Three Kingdoms" is more accurate. The conflict began in the late 1630s with Scottish resistance to King Charles I's religious policies. It was exacerbated by a rebellion in Ireland in 1641. Charles' relationship with the English Parliament broke down into warfare by 1642, but to see the conflict as a merely an English civil war is inaccurate. There was an internal civil war in Scotland during the whole period as well, whilst the main body of the Scots government was allied to the English Parliament. This didn't last, and by the 1650s the English Commonwealth was at war with their former allies in Scotland. The Anglocentricity of the historiography is incredible, though. The 1650-51 campaign was a straightforward war between the English Commonwealth and the Kingdom of Scotland, then ruled by Charles II. Yet it's often called the "Third English Civil War," even though almost no English people fought on the Royalist side.
Compare the New Model Army's 1645 campaign against Royalist strongholds in the West of England. Under the overall commander Sir Thomas Fairfax, taking royalist towns, they generally behaved according to the laws of war at the time. A detachment under Cromwell (subordinate to Fairfax at the time) attacked Basing House, the home of the Catholic Marquess of Winchester. It had held out for previous sieges and refused to surrender, so the New Model Army attacked with the motto "down with papists" pillaged the castle and mauled its population after they'd taken the site. This is very different to the treatment of other English towns and forts in the same period. So it's clear that when attacking a specifically Catholic target, Cromwell behaved the same in England and Ireland. He treated Basing House the same way he treated Drogheda.
is a bigger umbrella that INCLUDES acts of genocide, but also covers other methods of "rendering an area ethnically homogenous" such as mass arrests, forced relocation, or other ways of terrorizing a population in order to induce them to flee.
So, what was happening? Was the Cromwell/Commonwealth military expedition part of an attempt not merely to reconquer Ireland, but also to destroy present and future possibility indigenous Catholic rule?
If this wasn’t a genocide (an attempt to destroy the Irish nation/Irish Catholics in whole or in part), what was the purpose of Cromwell’s expedition in Ireland? The context of the English Commonwealth’s quasi-theocracy and the expansion of things like the , the expansion of the ethnic cleansing of the Plantation of Ulster, and the dispossession of the Catholic land owning class, to me, never left much of a doubt in my mind that this was a coordinated effort not merely to conquer and rule Ireland as it had with Wales or Scotland, but to destroy Catholicism and turn the Irish into second class citizens, Protestants, or, if need be, corpses. If you’re saying that you think the word genocide is distracting to understanding what really happened, I sympathize—I think there’s still an old post of mine in FAQ arguing the same thing for the Armenian Genocide, that the “debate” becomes about whether or not a genocide, which distracts attention to the more obvious and agreed upon facts.
Yes that's more what I meant. Genocide is such a loaded term, especially in the present day context of the Holocaust, that I wanted to separate intentional killings from the rest. But Cromwell's military expedition, in isolation, was for the purpose of subduing and dispossessing the Catholic population. There's a comment from JasJoeGo that explains the historical context and the effect of war on the land and population way better than I did.