This has HUGE implications. It means NATO countries will set a precedent to further restrict trade and increase sanctions on russia, but whats even bigger, is it also applies secondary sanctions to other countries and entities that trade with russia. This is fantastic. It forces the whole world to play along.
This wasn't Putin just lashing out at a random former Soviet state/Imperial Russian possession - reintegration of Ukraine would've turned Russia into an economic powerhouse that might have too much market power in vital areas to sustain sanctions on (they'd be exporting something like 23% of the world's wheat, for example, and they'd be bumping themselves up several spots in the lists for a number of other staple crop exports) while also stopping planned Ukrainian development in economic zones that Russia's economy is dependent on.
>BOMB ME, BITCH. What's the problem? You're at war with [terrorist organization] NATO and can't drop bombs on NATO countries? You don't even have to bomb any other NATO country/city/place. Just me. KILL ME. Come on, do it. I'll give you the coords. I dare you. Do it.
Putin was expecting the Ukrainian army to topple on first contact, for Zelenskyy to flee into exile and for resistance to dissipate into just normal everyday displays of resistance - and likely expecting that sanctions would be much less palatable to sustain w/o active ongoing Ukrainian resistance, given Europe's energy dependence on Russia and the dependence of much of the world on Russian and Ukrainian food exports. Fortunately, though, Russia ended up being a lot stronger on paper than it was in reality.
Isopropyl Alcohol for disinfectant. A simple chemical traded in gigantic volumes with no dual use, right? Wrong, it is a precursor material to a host of chemical weapon nerve agents. Now if you’re a chemical company doing work across a Russian supply chain you need to shut off almost all your sales and trades unless you have verifiable evidence of where it’s getting used. This happened to 3 Belgian companies shipping Iso Alcohol to Syria.