After the prolonged civil war, Liu Bang founded the Western Han dynasty. Because of the destruction and huge casualties, both the government and the people were weak. From Gaozu of Han to Wudi of Han, the Han government succeeded in reform and centralization. After the Rebellion of the Seven States, the central government began to rule directly into the east of Luoyang. And that's how the central government started to encounter the local landholders. Generally, the first 60 years of the Han dynasty were at peace. The adoption of private ownership of land and economic development inevitably gave birth to strong landlords. While the rich can provide well education to their offspring, many officials were landlords at the same time. During Wudi's era, which is the golden era of the Western Han Dynasty, the central government possessed enough power to crush and adjust this situation through the method of harsh treatment and forced migration. The successors of Wudi kept on using the aforementioned ways but they failed to stop the growth of local powers. The national strenh of the Western Han Dynasty began to fall after it reached its peak in Wudi's era. During the reign of Emperor Yuan of Han and Emperor Cheng of Han, all forced migration plans were unsuccessful because the government was too weak. All they can do was compromised with reality.
Jin united the land eventually but the Sima family were not one of the starting warlords: they came into ruling power via the 249 coup against fellow Wei regent Cao Shuang by Sima Yi and then the Sima's didn't let go until the last Wei Emperor Cao Huan abdicated to Sima Yan to 266.
The Sima's would face rebellions from the generals (the coup saw the internal situation become unstable), the wiles of Dowager Guo, Wei loyalist ploys and an Emperor marching against them over the next 15 years. Sima Yi had taken power with the vital support of the gentry and his sons Shi+Zhao continued to need their support. They didn't fix the recruitment system, they put agricultural garrisons in the hands of the gentry and a less centralized state which pleased their supporters but meant power seeped from throne to the powerful families.