In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
No. Necessity > laws, and if the powers that are wanted to see a faster and more complete Ukrainian victory, they’d find a way to circumvent whatever laws they need to. Don’t be naive.
- Deportation or forcible transfer of population;Imprisonment or other severe deprivation of physical liberty in violation of fundamental rules of international law.
Lol. Laws. Like those laws that prevent countries from invading one another? Like the laws that require modestly respectful treatment of prisoners and non-combatants? Those laws?
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Economic warfare, information warfare, cyber warfare. Many types of warfare that would be considered types of cold warfare vs hot (armed combat).
- Persecution against any identifiable group or collectivity on political, racial, national, ethnic, cultural, religious, gender as defined in paragraph 3, or other grounds that are universally recognized as impermissible under international law, in connection with any act referred to in this paragraph or any crime within the jurisdiction of the Court.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
- Rape, sexual slavery, enforced prostitution, forced pregnancy, enforced sterilization, or any other form of sexual violence of comparable gravity.
And at least half of them are outdated, poorly-protected leopard 1a5s. And they still haven’t been fucking delivered.
For the purpose of this Statute, ‘crime against humanity’ means any of the following acts when committed as part of a widespread or systematic attack directed against any civilian population, with knowledge of the attack: