In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Yup. Would have had $1.5t in spending vs $600b, with not just climate spending and limited healthcare subsidies but the full 10 years of the ACA expansion, and universal PreK. Would have been a big deal.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
He got a coal baron to vote in favor of the largest climate bill in US history, and passed a stimulus/recovery bill that was over twice the size of the New Deal, plus he's managed to guide the US economy to a recession that lacks job loss and economic decline and that has also recently transitioned back to seeing real wage growth, at a time when much of the rest of the world is suffering severely economically.
I agree with you, mostly. They did set a bar for him that was both unreachable and in no way his own - and they have been trashing him for not even reaching for it.
Basically, Biden made a general stimulus proposal. Then Manchin made some general comments on the idea of a stimulus bill, including saying that he didn't want the sending out of stimulus checks to take precedence over getting vaccines out to the public, while also suggesting that maybe the checks were a bit too broadly targeted. A lot of folks in the media and liberal establishment started freaking out and interpreting it to mean Manchin was going to block the stimulus checks. But then the detailed proposals for stimulus are made, and the stimulus includes both the checks and spending to help get vaccines out, so Biden made Manchin's main worry irrelevant, by ensuring that the checks wouldn't be getting priority over vaccination. Also the income cutoffs for the full stimulus check were left unchanged compared to prior stimulus checks, but the Biden stimulus plan was tweaked to have a much faster "taper off", meaning that fewer people got the partial check.
Never count Dark Brandon out. Being the underdog and still getting shit done almost seems to be his super-power.