- There is one very particular instance in the Spanish language where we use "Americas": the famous expression "hacer las Américas". For our non-Spanish speaking fellows, it means emigrating to America and becoming succesful there. A more literal translation would be "making the Americas" or even better "making it in the Americas".
Certainly! A fascinating book about not only Argentina but about the Latin Américan experience in general is Modernidad e independencias: ensayos sobre las revoluciones hispánicas by François-Xavier Guerra. For a more specifically Argentinian view on the matter, I can't recommend this one enough: Tulio Halperin Donghi's Revolución y guerra: formación de una élite dirigente en la Argentina criolla.
You're right, I mistyped. I corrected it now to say, "While it was largely Italian Americans lobbying for its designation as a holiday, the subtext of the national acceptance of their efforts was clear.".
Yes absolutely we should be profoundly disturbed by the obsessive eulogization of Columbus during the last 100 years or so, but for historians to argue we can view Columbus as the great harbinger of doom onto the Americas and that "he created" the systems and legacies of colonialism, which actually varied enormously over 500 years depending on who it was that was carrying out these systems of domination, is bizarre to me.
Without a doubt. We need to understand that the Spanish Conquista, as well as every other conquest and colonisation campaigns, weren't simply colonialist, they were also based on deeply racist and sexist beliefs; remember that for a very long time, many conquistadores were happy to think of natives as little more than animals or slightly over-developed monkeys, and that trend continued well into the 19C, when many early Nation-States implemented genocidal policies against the "savages" who were occupying land that could be used for farming and industrialisation. On top of that, the colonial power, domination and administration structures were constructed and institutionalised from the basis of the idea of male domination as the only way to build a "real" society. We speak about the plights of the natives in general, but if we delve deeper, we recognise that women were subjected to some of the cruellest and most violent forms of dehumanisation during the 300+ years of the conquest.
What's my point? I'm saying that not is not fair to make this comparison, I'm saying that it plays into anti-Indian rhetoric that is implicitly spurred on by the very narrative we're seeking to overturn in this post. And historically speaking, it isn't a valid comparison to make.