The next Congress then first got sidetracked over the possibility that anyone assuming executive office this way might potentially hold two offices simultaneously (along with the even more horrible thought they might draw two salaries and/or be biased by the potential of voting on salary increases - there's a reason the 27th Amendment regulating Congressional pay raises came out of that time period.) It then got engaged in a nasty proto-partisan battle because Jeffersonians thought that their beloved Secretary of State should be first in line after the Vice President and had the votes in the House to attempt to do so. Hamilton, however, was unsurprisingly deathly opposed to this possibility, and the proto-Federalists in the Senate blocked it and eventually forced Pro Tem first, Speaker second - and also mandated that if one of them had indeed succeeded, their term of office would be at most 17 months as a special election for President and Vice President would take place.
By that point in time? No. By 1958 Nixon had his eyes on becoming President in his own right. After John Foster Dulles died, Nixon basically got along with Christian Herter (Dulles's chosen replacement) and got along well enough with others in the cabinet (except for Ezra Taft Benson - Nixon criticised the administration's agricultural policies when campaigning and Benson took that incredibly personally), but Eisenhower was a remarkably tough individual; he seemingly regained all of his faculties and remained stable for the rest of his presidency. (I use seemingly there not to suggest the contrary, but simply because I'm 1) Unaware of any other significant health issues he had if he had them while still in office, and 2) Very aware that Nixon never contemplated removing Eisenhower at that time).
The only time anyone seriously considered removing Eisenhower, even temporarily, was just after his stroke - when Eisenhower tried to return to work as soon as possible and clearly wasn't well. Dulles was terrified that what had happened with Wilson was going to occur again, but now with atomic weapons. Dulles genuinely considered and discussed whether Eisenhower should be forced to basically sit out the presidency until he reovered.
Nixon met with Eisenhower on December 3, 1957, and was confronted with a worrisome and problematic situation. Nixon had intended to use the meeting with Eisenhower to encourage the President both to actually delegate more and to use the public reaction to the launch of Sputnik as a means to gain greater funding from Congress for foreign aid and related programs. While Eisenhower expressed broad agreement with Nixon’s suggestions, he was distracted by complaints he wished to raise: Eisenhower complained to Nixon about advisers and officials not making decisions and failing to act independently, voiced resentment that the cabinet had met and carried on business while he was incapacitated, warned Nixon to avoid appearing as if he were asserting himself or taking advantage of Eisenhower’s illness, and then pondered whether Nixon could be relieved of his Constitutional duties to the Senate to take up the position he had been ruminating on for some time – that of the pseudo-prime minister. The rambling and quick mood changes caused Nixon some concern about Eisenhower’s mind and ability to proceed, but this was doubly true of Dulles.