One curious piece of evidence, which I am lumping in with "the laws" even though it was really a Soviet Army regulation, does hint at some acknowledgement of female servicemembers in theory. The 1975 edition of the Устав Внутренней cлужбы Вооруженных cил СССР (Internal Service Charter of the Armed Forces of the USSR) describes a range of daily responsibilities, duties, and protocols for the armed forces irrespective of specific billets or combat taskings. This includes protocols for rewarding soldiers for good performance, as well as for non-judicial punishments for crimes. There are a handful of curious gender variances in these two sections. Men are permitted to be rewarded with either short blocks of leave or a promotion to the next appropriate rank within their billet, among other rewards; women have neither of these reward enumerated in their section. Also, female officers are not permitted to be put in the jailhouse/stockades while awaiting judicial review for crimes (a privilege also reserved for ship captains).4.
Still, it was in the air to some degree. In ), a quite non-conformist female director Larisa Shepitko depicted the struggle of a hardened female fighter pilot, who'd lost her only love, another pilot, in the war, and now has to contort to fit the suffocating role of an "old woman" (even though she's barely in her 40s!) — a bespectacled, stuffy college principal. She can't connect to anyone, pupils or lovers (as many vets can't, but she's also "a woman", so she can't even brood), and has no place to spread her "Wings" (the title of the film). In the last scene, she takes off in an aerobatic plane, happy.
Volumes have been written about gender norms in Soviet Russia and the Union in general, such that trying to summarize the entire social construction(s) & interpretations of gender in the USSR is vastly beyond the scope of this post.5 Speaking in rough generalities, we can say that the (often state-backed) hegemonic conception of gender roles in the USSR was fairly conservative, despite the genuine egalitarian bent in educational and workforce policies. This patriarchal tendency was not static with time of course - the Leninist, early Stalinist, and Khruschev eras are particularly considered to be strong reformist periods.
However, the Great Patriotic War period informed all aspects of future Soviet military policies much more strongly than any other period in Soviet history. The war period was also marked by a staunchly conservative turn in gender roles - despite the massive participation of women in the Red Army during the war! As a number of authors including Reina Penninon, Roger Markwick & Euridice Charon Cardona have argued, Soviet policy towards fighting-age women in the war was sort of pulling in two directions (with one direction or another dominating as the exact wartime needs shifted).6,7 On the one hand, the realities of the manpower collapse in 1941 necessitated expanding the recruitment pool. On the other hand, war propaganda centered on shoring up patriotic sentiment through references to a specifically Russian past, and this included more traditional gender norms like motherhood and a vision of women "holding down the fort" while the men served at the front. These two were never entirely at odds - there was a strand of propaganda which emphasized the motherly, nurturing aspects and the patriotic duty exhibited by female nurses.