Although they are currently housed in Western European libraries, that doesn't mean that they were produced there. And from a cursory search I have some significant reservations about whether we should imagine that any of them were anywhere near western Europe prior to the 15th century.
So do we have any significant reason to think that any of these manuscripts (or any that I've not commented on here) would have been available in the Latin world prior to the turn of the 15th century?
I mean, it's neither here nor there, there is high level literary commentary on Latin literature going on in the 11th century as well, but high-level study of Greek in Greek would be very surprising indeed in 11th century western Europe. Though, I say that, but we actually have the manuscripts (mostly of Aristotle) that were used by Burgundio of Pisa and that may contain among other things his own annotations in both Latin and Greek from the middle of the twelfth century. But translation was a group activity and he will almost certainly been working in concert with Greek scholars as well. (Though I don't know off hand where he was doing these translations, but he definitely spent time in Constantinople as a Pisan ambassador.).
Ok then to sum up, with WelfontheShelf: Eleanor and Richard probably did not have the Medea of Euripides in Greek in any way shape or form, and if they did, it would be from an ultra-rare and unlikely manuscript; but they almost certainly would have been familiar with the Medea myth from Ovid Metamorphoses and other Latin sources.
Now, if gr. 471 is indeed one of his books, or a book of another member of the post-1453 diaspora, then naturally enough schola from the the eleventh to fourteenth centuries don't indicate an awareness of Euripides in Venice, but rather in Constantinople or wherever else the book was when the scholia were written. This is why I noted my skepticism in the original comment, since none of the manuscripts you reference can be traced to a western European library at any period earlier than the 15th century, and the Parisian manuscripts at least can be positively shown to only have reached Paris after the Middle Ages.
is the O.G. daddy for Euripides manuscript tradition. He was really the first to do a thorough modern academic investigation, and he found the following: nine Euripides plays had been selected by the early Byzantines as "canon," which included Andromache, Hecuba, Hippolytus, and Medea. Bacchae and Iphigenia at Tauris were not on the list. From this Byzantine "canon," it might easily have happened that the rest of the plays got lost and disappeared. Instead, Kirchoff theorizes that a single manuscript from the 9th or 10th century CE (now lost) contained no less than 19 of the original plays, a Christmas miracle. Note that the 9th century CE is just about as far back as we can trace most manuscripts of ancient writings. This original wondrous book was copied around 1100 CE, also now lost, but with only the nine "Byzantine canon" plays. This copy went on to be the best-kept archetype for most of our Euripides plays that we have today. There are three main manuscripts, a Marcianus in St Mark's in Venice, a Vaticanus (in the Vatican), and a third in Paris. Medea was present in all of these, so yes, in the 12th century, Euripides Medea at least existed and was in some sort of circulation among European elite. It seems probable that Eleanor and Richard would have been able to get a copy, if they wished. It is certainly in the realm of the possible, if not probable. I don't myself know if Eleanor would have read Greek. She certainly read and wrote Latin, and we have several famous letters to and from her written in Latin. We would need a Medievalist to talk about elite proficiency with ancient Greek in the 12th century.