As far as I'm aware there is no musing in extant Graeco-Roman literature about a connection between dogs and wolves. There doesn't seem to be anything on this topic in Aelian's De Natura Animalium, for instance. Obviously, lacking a proper concept of evolution and indeed genetics more widely, it wouldn't really be possible to posit a 'biological' connection between the two species in our sense of the word.
Ya know. It seems like it would be a fairly common occurrence for civilizations to spend generations slowly (and in many cases unintentionally) domesticating farm animals, pets, and crops, only to have the knowledge of that domestication be lost to history due to lack of written history and lack of a strong reason to preserve anything related to such an incremental and in the moment boring series of events. But the result of this would be groups of humans living in circumstances where they had all these crops and livestock which were wonderfully adapted to serving human needs and which for all they knew were completely and totally of natural origin. This makes me wonder how much this specific set of circumstances has led to the adoption of religious beliefs (or teleological belief in general). In a very real sense these groups of humans came into a world that was in a way designed for them, they just had no idea it was due to previous generations of humans putting in the work, not supernatural beings.
Nope. The Greeks and Romans knew that wolves and dogs could interbreed, but they also thought that dogs could also mate with other animals:
Pliny the Elder also mentions that dogs could be crossed with both tigers and wolves, and adds that wolfdogs are especially common in Gaul, where.
"...in Cyrene the wolf and the bitch will couple and breed; and the Laconian hound is a cross between the fox and the dog. They say that the Indian dog is a cross between the tiger and the bitch, not the first cross, but a cross in the third generation; for they say that the first cross is a savage creature" (Aristotle, On the Nature of Animals, 8.28).