Nowhere was there a written law, which excluded Jews from this provision or which specified that Jews could be killed without impunity. That these provisions were still in effect can be seen when reviewing the example of a German foreman of a work battalion in Lithuania sentenced by a German court for committing murder against a Jewish worker from his brigade in 1942 because he had killed said worker with the intention of stealing stealing his gold teeth (relevant court sentence printed in Die Verfolgung und Ermordung der Europäischen Juden, Vol. 6).
What the Nazis did was apply that imperial attitude to Czechs, Poles, Roma, Jews, Ukrainians, Belarusians, Russians, and other people that they considered undesirable to the new German Empire they were trying to develop. Up until the death camps, though, the actions the Germans took were not invented by the Nazis. Again, these ethnic cleansings had been sanctioned by the old empire years ago, just not in Europe.
Firstly, what constitutes legality. Legality is in its broadest sense defined as behavior, decrees, provisions and so forth being in accordance with the law as it is on the book. Modern states usually follow the principle that every action taken by a state agency needs to be based on a legal provision. A bureaucracy can't do anything that it is not explicitly allowed to do by law. For anything to become a law, it needs to have undergone a very specific process. The is very specific about this process: For a suggested provision to become a law, it needs to be proposed by a member of the government or the parliament, needs to be passed with a certain majority (50% in case of a regular law, 75% in case of a law intended to amend the constitution), needs to be signed by the president, and needs to be published in the appropriate venue. Even if that process has happened, the Supreme Court can still decide if a regulation that has undergone this process is in accordance with the provisions laid out in the constitution.