Control theories are theories that suggest that there are either internal or external "controls" that serve to prevent you from engaging in crime or deviance. Both theories are based on the foundational assumption that humans are hedonistic and naturally inclined towards deviance/crime/delinquency. For instance, self-control theory suggests that if you have low self-control, you will engage in crime because you can't control your naturally criminal impulses (Gottfredson & Hirschi, 1990). This theory stemmed from a series of other theories, most notably the social control theories which suggested that if social controls are low, you will engage in crime because your naturally criminal impulses aren't being controlled (for instance, Hirschi 1969 or Tittle 1995). Social controls are things like the family, the church, schools, and so on. In both the self-control and social control theories, the people around you are responsible for developing those controls. In the case of self-control, Gottfredson & Hirschi (1990) ultimately argued that your parents were responsible for teaching you to control your impulses from a young age. Gottfredson & Hirschi literally argued that if you had bad parents you were gonna be a delinquent. They are somewhat notorious in criminology for how many problems they blamed on bad parenting. Even though their theory wasn't published in book form until 1990, it really is based on decades worth of criminological and sociological theorizing that goes back to the post-WWII time period you specified.
This is a very thorough answer! I can think of reasons why both the 40s and the 30s would be, say, "atypical" decades in a number of ways, but do you have any sense of why delinquency/teen crime was higher in the 50s compared to say the 20s? Did the analysis just not exist back then? I know that the very concept of a "teenager" practically didn't exist then.
This explanation comes from a particular school of criminology called biological criminology, or biosocial criminology depending on the study. I honestly think that this school of criminology is just immensely fascinating for a million reasons. For example, Portnoy et al. 2013 ( found that high IQ, high resting heart rate, and some other biological factors contribute to preventing individuals from engaging in crime even "in the presence of high social risk." That article I linked has quite a few other studies like that in their lit review about the other biological explanations for crime like lead in the drinking water or environmental pollutants. I studied under a couple of people who were into that stuff and even had the opportunity to spend 2 years working in a lab collecting this kind of data... so your question is what do I think about the "leaded gasoline" explanation?? I think it's super fucking cool and it is part of a much larger theoretical explanation for crime that is desperate for further research.