After some time had elapsed, many of these peasants were able to secure legitimate ownership over modest tracts of land. Sometimes these people hired other former peasants to work their land alongside them, but it's important to emphasize here alongside them. These people were not slave-owners. Their workers were paid, housed, and fed in most cases. Others lent tools and livestock to smaller landowners nearby for a profit. I'm not going to sit here and tell you there was no such thing as the 'evil kulak' Lenin and then Stalin vilified and then liquidated, who ruled over their newfound demesne with an iron fist and offered low-quality conditions to their poor peasant laborers. Cycles of violence tell us that those who are violently oppressed can sometimes turn into violent oppressors themselves given the opportunity, but it was nowhere near the norm-- as Lenin and Stalin tried to present it. Some people who came to be described as kulaks later would likewise bribe imperial officials to avoid conscription to the frontlines during the First World War, but to suggest that this practice was widespread among all of the people whom the Bolsheviks eventually sought to murder and/or from whom they violently expropriated land, grain, or other resources is complete nonsense.
In Russian Peasants and Soviet Power (1968), a few years after this article appeared, his hypothesis is essentially that the Bolsheviks had no other choice than to pursue collectivist policy in the countryside because their material circumstances were so grim. I more or less agree with that assessment. There wasn't much of a choice-- the bulk of Russian farmland in Ukraine was rendered unusable by World War I (1914-1918), then the Ukrainian War of Independence (1917-1921), the incentives farmers had to remain on their farms were meager and therefore not working, Russia faced a series of famines during the twenties and thirties that diminished what grain supplies they did have, and there were about a dozen other border wars that the Bolsheviks prosecuted immediately following their success in the civil war as well.
Do you have thoughts on this source by Moshe Lewin on the topic? As it's the only soviet historical take I was able to find on the issue. He questions the whole notion of kulaks as an exploitative profit motivated class in the first place.