In terms of notice, FDR signed Executive Order 9066 in 19 February 1942 which authorized exclusion of enemy aliens in what were termed "Military Areas", on 2 March Lieutenant General John L. DeWitt declared the Pacific Coast "Military Area No. 1", and throughout the rest of March a series of edicts restricts Japanese-American movement in Military Area No. 1 and control over their assets. Additionally, War Relocation Authority (WRA) starts opening up camps like Manzanar. By late March, internment began to assume a reality and by April 1942 the process is well under way. So in terms of notice, the timeframe is very brief (February-March 1942). It is also important to realize that from the perspective on the ground, it is difficult to disentangle these various initiatives from wider wartime security regulations (e.g. blackouts, curfews, etc.) and DeWitt's proclamations were often quite confusing. Military Area No. 1 was initially only 100 miles inland, leaving Military Area No. 2 (the inland West coast) nominally free from these restrictions, leading some Japanese-Americans to make plans to move there. But DeWitt's Public Proclamation No. 4 of 27 March forbid Japanese-Americans from Area No. 1 to move to No. 2, thus trapping many in Area No. 1.
The references imply this wasn't specifically aimed at the interees, but just standard operating procedure for disposal of old paperwork. In the time of pre-computer records, having tons of confidential tax record papers sitting around in a government warehouse after their audit period had passed was likely viewed as wasteful and uneconomical, especially during wartime. Personal speculation: likely the interees didn't have an advocate in either Congress or the IRS specifically watching out for their future needs, considering the rapid and haphazard nature of the internments that OP illustrates in their answer. No one was thinking about them, so SOP was followed.
The Japanese-American community as a whole did not have that much access to ready cash as the Roosevelt administration had before Pearl Harbor had restricted the activities of Japanese-owned banks in the US, which a number of Japanese-Americans had accounts in as it was easier to send money back to the Home Islands. After Pearl Harbor, the ability of "enemy aliens" to withdraw money from their accounts was also frozen. Bank accounts in American banks remained in service, but their holders could not access them until the middle of the war when Eleanor Roosevelt appealed to the US government to allow internees access to their holdings, albeit still on a limited basis. The Federal Reserve Bank was charged with protecting the financial interests of the internees, but its portfolio also included the task of ensuring that evacuation be accomplished as swiftly as possible. These two imperatives were incompatible and most FRB personnel prioritized the latter imperative. Despite this, the FRB often assured Japanese-Americans that their property would be safe if they could not sell it. Not only were there too few FRB personnel to make this a reality, they often underestimated the complexity of evacuation process. For example, cars were a form of movable property that could not be off-loaded easily, so a number of internees simply drove their cars to the evacuation centers and left them there in the hopes of being able to return and claim them once resettlement had settled down. Eventually, this became such a problem that the FRB demanded that the evacuees sell their automobiles to the US Army at FRB-evaluated prices. This was something that repeated itself in multiple areas where property that could not be carried off or sold was often left in place in the hope that it could be reclaimed. Theft, arson, and vandalism were the natural end results of this policy and neither local authorities nor the federal ones were inclined to investigate or discourage such actions.
Thank you for this great response! As an Asian-American I found myself wondering recently what I could do to protect my family if I were suddenly considered an "enemy alien" not only in the eyes of my fellow citizens, but also by the rule of law. It's absolutely heartbreaking to learn the details of how helpless these people were to protect themselves against their own government.