If you end up not getting a response after a day or two, consider asking a new question focusing instead on why what happened did happen (rather than why what didn't happen didn't happen) - this kind of question is more likely to get a response in our experience. Hope this helps!
In short, if you were to spend a year dining with an American in 1630, 1730, and 1830, you would certainly find savory meat pies to be one you would eat fairly often, especially whenever the supply of tastier meat got low and less desirable animal parts needed to be consumed, but even as a Sunday treat with better cuts of meat. And even in 1930, it's very likely that the American family you were dining with still ate its share of savory meat pies, at least, if they had older American roots and weren't a family of recent-ish immigrants. But even then, meat pies were still a part of the American diet, even if it was a diminished one. While the meat pie was being displaced for a half century before that, it's really only been in the post-World War II era that it's been an afterthought. I think you could argue the same is happening in Europe, too, but it's just happened later and more slowly due to several factors, including immigration patterns, relative wealth of the working class people, and the relative prominence of eating-out and restaurant culture, among the most significant.
Thank you for this excellent write up. I seem to recall reading somewhere that the rise of easily available sugar contributed to the rise of sweet dessert pies as well. Do you have any insight into that?
Aside from the much more well-known chicken pot pie, you also have the good ol' Natchitoches meat pie (which is actually one of the official state foods of Louisiana), and the French-Canadian meat pie popular in Quebec and New Brunswick. Also, depending on whether you define the Caribbean as North America or not, there are also Jamaican beef patties - which are also very popular here in NYC - and an array of empanadas from all across the Spanish speaking portions of the continent. And these are just a few - I'm certain that there are plenty of others in regional cuisines that I am overlooking.
The short, simple answer to your question is that savory pies are very popular in the US, just maybe not in the part of Florida you live.
So, the better question is not why are savory pies not popular in the US, but instead why are dessert pies LESS popular in Europe. And the answer, to put it simply, is sugar.