Firstly, Harper argues that we need to understand same sex relationships between men in the high Empire are not necessarily the same as a free acceptance of homosexuality. Instead the "acceptable" forms of same sex expression in the Late Roman world were invariably between masters and slaves, not free born men (and I do mean men, women feature between very rarely and not at all in ancient discourses on same sex relations). Indeed, seducing a free born man into sex with a man was a severe crime in Roman Law even before conversion to Christianity, this was not the Greek approach between men that was seen in Athens and the like in the 4th century BC. Secondly the survival of these master slave relations in the Roman Empire was also predicated on the widespread sexual availability of slaves through brothels. This point is worth underscoring. Without the widespread sexual availability of slaves to their masters, through both private ownership as well as through the sex trade, there was no Roman approach to homosexuality.
When Christianity became the prevailing ideology of the empire in the 4th century sexual slavery and public prostitution were heavily frowned upon, as in "could result in public execution" levels of frowned on. Over the course of the next several centuries various emperors would outlaw or suppress both sexual slavery and same sex relationships. The emperor Theodosius oversaw the public burning of male prostitutes in Rome and later Justinian would pass harsh laws condemning the sale of people into sexual slavery against their will. He condemned people participating in prostitution as well but the prevailing idea was that if you weren't being forced into the life you were legally culpable, so non-enslaved prostitutes were also targeted by Justinian's reforms.
P.S. Please excuse my moderation comments elsewhere in this thread. Normally the AH mod team has a policy against moderating in threads where we are actively participating, but I am/was the only mod around at the time.