So I promise there is nothing wrong with you, nor superhuman about academic historians. They're individuals who have a lot of practice acitvely recalling material, and utilitizing it daily. In doing so repeatedly and consistently, their brains have wired in a way that makes such information easily accessible, allowing them the appearance of walking libraries.
I’m going into my Junior year. However I’m in Asia so colleges here still place certain emphasis on examinations (encouraging rote learning), even if the lessons gear towards historiography, understanding + application.
Yeah 100% this. I only went to undergraduate's but I definitely noticed that the higher up you go the less and less you have to rely on pure memorisation of facts. Facts are surely important, but you only need a couple of key ones to support your argument in an exam situation. For coursework and if you're writing an academic paper, you don't really need memory when you have the sum of all human knowledge at your fingertips (Google).
So I did it. I am not the world's greatest programmer but I am dedicated enough to talk myself into a job. After about a year and a half I was able to transition out of engineering at my company and into a job doing product ops, essentially a business-engineering liason that utilizes my talents (organization, writing, communicating) while minimizing my weaknessess (deep technical work). Now that I have a job that pays the bills, I have decided to go back and get my master's. I'm not sure what the future will bring; I'm not ruling out quitting my job and pursing my PhD if it feels right, but for the time being I'm just happy having a job that pays well but isn't too time-consuming, and being able to get back into academia.
I would encourage anyone to get the degree that they think would benefit them the most and that they would legitimately enjoy, however don't just "follow your passion", ask yourself what skills you're going to acquire and what jobs you could do. This obviously doesn't have to be in the field you're getting your degree in (to an extent, of course). Be practical, know the market, and plan ahead. In doing so you'll be able to build yourself a happy future without sacrificing what you enjoy.
I went into my PhD comprehensive exams with approximately zero knowledge of medieval Mediterranean history. (I tend to leap off cliffs when it comes to academics.) Years later, I can write and and , and most recently .