A formal consultation is not "just a meeting". Article 4 is for building a consensus on a proportionate response from all members of the alliance.
Absolutely. I cannot imagine being the guy who had to tell Putin that it happened. The Poles are barely restrained, on a fraying tether. They’ve been a NATO member since ‘99, and they’ve definitely got first-rate weapons, training, and equipment. There must be a huge, collective sigh of relief that they seem to be amenable to the idea that it was a Ukrainian stray.
Absolutely not. The US is gaining economic access to new markets, establishing trade routes, losing one of its fiercest competitors in several industries, making countries dependent on them, and improving their overall geopolitical position.
The US is gaining economic access to new markets, establishing trade routes, losing one of its fiercest competitors in several industries, making countries dependent on them, and improving their overall geopolitical position.
True. No disagreement from me. Now ask yourself if most of the Russian missiles are moving in a south west direction, and most of the Ukrainian missiles are moving in a north east direction, and you have a missile land in Poland, which is more likely to be an errant missile?
But really when you think about it, in terms of probability/statistics, you have tens or a couple hundred missiles from Russia moving in a south west trajectory in north western Ukraine, and you have Ukraine SAM/AA defenses engaging those missiles in a north east trajectory and firing angle. And your telling me that you think it's more probable that a Ukrainian missile went errant in a west / north west direction versus say a Russian missile given bad coordinates, or malfunctioning (maybe from a near hit that damages the GPS/Flight controls of the missile) and overshooting it's intended target?
Like if a Ukraine missile fired at a Russian missile detonates near the Russian missile, what's the probability that the Russian missile is damaged in a manner that does not destroy it, but damages it in a way that it no longer is capable of hitting its target because the flight/guidance controls are in fault and not functioning properly.
That's not how this works. Poland can invoke whatever they want but unless they they back it up with proof, nothing happens.