Most historical civilizations did study the civilizations that came before them. However, this wasn't necessarily "study" the way we think of it today. Civilizations often referenced older ruins and stories about previous cultures in their mythology and origin stories. Since most civilizations were not the first urban societies in their areas, they had ample traces and legends from the past to study.
Wondering if this was a translation mistake specific to my edition (2006) I looked for alternate versions, I was lucky enough that I found a (yes, I know how it looks but I downloaded it and it was a Mega file, I didnt find any virus, and found the corresponding book on page 253 of the 2nd PDF file), and one that is newer than mine, , both contained the same text as my version, so it does appear to me to be the actual spanish translation, rather than a typo from mine, based on these 3 sources I have access to.
The first is the one I quoted in my previous comment, from Book 10. The oblique reference is from Book 1, which references the creation of the Sun and the Moon happening at "the place called the gods' hearth, the turquoise enclosure." (p. 84).
As for the glyphs, this is considered examples of Teotihuacan writting, I didnt say the text seemed outdated as an off-shot comentary, according to what it says, the paper was published in 96, the same date when Teotihuacan writting systems began being studied, it makes sense that the paper is outdated if it is missing information that was developed during or after its writting, I would disagree that the codexes were a limited form of writting, their structure is useful in the convenyance of information, and not particularly lesser in that regard to the latin alphabet (if more complex and difficult perhaps), regardless, the quantity of information the few codexes we have should be more than enough evidence of this.
Apologies, but which paragraph continues with the above quote? It doesn't appear to be from Sahagún?
And he does refer to it as a town, not a city as he does other places, like when he talks about the indigenous governors of, for example, Mexico, which seems odd, considering he is supposedely taking the information from indigenous sources, would it not be more likely that he is referering to the post-classical town of Neo-Teotihuacan, rather than the classical metropoli of Teotihuacan?
This is were my question comes from, as Sahagun (and presumably his source, though to be fair, Sahagun does comment that the section is rough at best) is clearly referencing the town of Teotihuacan, calling it San Juan (of Teotihuacan I assume), particularly considering how specific colonial demarcation for urban centers (city, town, village, etc...) was.
As you said, I might be splitting hairs, but Sahagun's (and by extension his sources) narrative taken upfront seems to imply he is talking about a... less regal place, (particularly considering colonial designation, which was very specific on towns as being of a lower category than cities and some such), rather than the complex construct Teotihuacan must have been even then.
They werent exactly ruins exactly either, as I commented the place had been partially re-settled, I also think on this one point your comment does stray pretty far from 400-Rabbit's, despite what you say, his main point is dispelling the notion that Teotihuacan was considered a place of mythology altoghether, whathever sun you claim sources considered Teotihuacan to have birthed.
The mexica mention the place as being a "place of leaders", but have no illusions of it being a place of divine origin (it wouldnt make sense within their cosmology or foundation myths either), this is particularly poignant if you consider the area was already resettled during the Triple Alliance's time, the so called polity of Neo-Teotihuacan.
No, the idea that the mexicans regarded Tehotihuacan as "the place were gods were born" is nothing but a historical rumor, and completely unrelated to nahwa, or indeed any culture's that existed in mesoamerica, particularly for the mexica, who had records of their patron and name-sake deity: Mexhi/Huiztilopochtli.
Regardless, before going further could you point out how your sources reached the conclusion of Teotihuacan being "the location where the fifth age was begun"?, Corgi for example, doesnt really say how he reached that conclusion in the text you linked, he just starts from that assumption and runs with it... it also seems slightly outdated, for example claiming Teotihuacan had , or he seems to think the mexica used the same calendar system that the mayans did ("the calendar round is the only count known to have been used in Mesoamerica from the beginning"), which is not true at all, and the other 2, I can only see the previews, which leaves a lot of information out, so it would help me if you could point to me were your thesis comes from.
As a final comment, I re-read Book 10 as you recommended, or well, skimmed through it, more like, but I wasable to find the section of Teotihuacan, were it is mentioned it is "named the town of Teotl" and were people were "canonized as gods" and "Ueitiuacan, place were lords are made", yet, unlike the other sections I cant find this Teotihuan being referenced as San Juan anywere, am I just missing it? because its description of "Monumets as mountains" make it seem slighlty more regal than the one he describes as San Juan (Teotihuacan) in the previous book.
Can we really link classical Teotihuacan to this?, in that same paragraph he notes the location as being: