For example if someone is “front loaded” 80 hours of PTO at the beginning of the year, but they quit 6 months into the year, they’ve only earned/accrued 40 of those 80 hours (minus any hours they used in those 6 months), because they only worked half the year.
If you were awarded/front-loaded/granted 70 hours of PTO at the beginning of this year, and your employment ended 5 months into the year, then you'd presumably only be entitled to 5/12ths of 70 hours, or approximately 29 hours of it (minus any hours of PTO that you've already taken this year). That's based on PTO accrual by the month.
\- In 2019, you became eligible to earn PTO. You were front-loaded PTO at the beginning of 2019 that you would accrue/earn if you worked the full year of 2019, even though it was made available for you to use before you had worked the full year to earn/accrue it.
Again, if PTO is granted to you at the beginning of the year in a lump-sum for use throughout the year, then you'd generally only be entitled to the prorated portion of that front-loaded PTO that you earned, as in my example.
\- In 2018, you were not eligible to earn PTO, because you only become eligible on the yearly anniversary of your employment.
But as it stands, based strictly on your employer's PTO accrual policy, your employer is adhering to the very letter of their policy, which is that you have to work the entire year to accrue the PTO, if I'm understanding it correctly.
This is the whole thing word for word. She never updated this 2019 policy this year nor told me in passing that this years 10 days (70 hrs) of vacation she gave me wasn’t accrued in anyway. So would the vacation policy still apply for me and would I be getting this unused vacation paid out to me??
However, your company's policy says that you don't accrue/earn PTO on a monthly basis; rather, you accrue/earn it on a yearly basis, and since you had not worked a full year, you did not accrue/earn any PTO that was awarded/granted to you at the beginning of this year. How kosher that's going to be with CA's PTO payout laws is something I'm not 100% on.