For the last fifty years, my tribe has been working to protect a major village site (actually the major village site) from which many of us descend. The site has, in the past, had two highways constructed through it. A large portion was destroyed when a sawmill was constructed on it in the 1950s. But, there are still about 8 acres of the site intact.
The four letters in a radio station's name are its callsign (short for call signal), awarded by the Federal Communications Commission, a national government agency that also regulates television, the internet and associated technologies. The call sign tells you what radio station is broadcasting at a specific frequency (or amplitude on an AM radio) For example, KQCH and KPFA are both broadcast from the frequency 94.1 MHz , but their terrestrial broadcast areas are nearly 2700km apart. When you are tuning an analog radio, it's not always easy to tell what frequency you're on, so if you like the music you hear, the DJ wants you to know how to find it again. KPFA owns the 94.1 signal in the Bay Area (Northern California, on the Pacific Coast). If you and your radio are traveling North, South, or East, eventually the sounds of KPFA die out and a new station is broadcast at that frequency. If the station is lucky, the callsign is both memorable and euphonious, like KAOS instead of KJZQ. Once a callsign is assigned to a station, it cannot be used by another station, so the only KPFA is in California, even though numerous stations use the 94.1 signal. The call letters would only be reassigned if KPFA were to shut down entirely. Sometimes if it's a big station, there are parallel broadcasts across multiple frequencies, each with its own call letters, usually outside the original broadcast area because 99.3 (for example) in the next town over is licensed to someone else.
Broadcasters are obliged to identify the station on the hour with a combination of callsign, frequency, and place of broadcast, usually in that order, e.g. "This is DJ Vandirac of K-P-F-A 94.1 Berkeley!", between :55 of the last hour and the :05 of the next hour. You are strongly encouraged to also identify the station at the half-hour mark, and fold in a "soft" ID with either the callsign or the frequency whenever you're on the microphone. The half-hour ID is especially helpful during an interview, to let new listeners know what's going on, e.g. "This is Lorena Lamarck and I'm interviewing Albert Einstein, here to talk about the research for which he was awarded the Nobel Prize this week, on WPRB 103.3 Princeton" All three components are necessary for a legal ID. Famous people can also be cajoled into recording an ID, which are then played at convenient times. If you're really slick, famous people will do interviews and do a show-specific ID, not just for your station but the genre/format you do, like Sonny Rollins on a jazz show.