First, to clarify, Greek philosophy and poetry most definitely do not stop at the end of the Peloponnesian War. Cynicism, Epicureanism, Stoicism, and other philosophical schools developed in the fourth and third centuries BC. Not only are there post-fifth century poets, but there are entire genres of poetry (e.g. New Comedy, bucolic poems, epigrams) that are either invented or began to flourish in the two centuries following the war. So poetry, philosophy, and "high" culture in general all continue to grow and change after the war, as they will through the Hellenistic period and under Roman rule.
1. In 433 BC, the Corinthians went to war against their colonists on Kerkyra, but the Athenians made an alliance with Kerkyra and sent ships to help them. The naval battle at Sybota ended in defeat for Corinth, which complained to its hegemon Sparta that Athens was meddling in its affairs.
This is why Thucydides said that the "truest cause" of the war was not any of the specific grievances with which the Corinthians, Aeginetans and Megarians lobbied for war. It wasn't even the nature of the Athenian Empire itself, and its previous violent repression of uprisings in Naxos, Thasos, Miletos, Erythrai and Samos. In his view, the "truest cause" (that is, not the one true cause but the one that was most true of all) was that Athenian power was growing and the Spartans were afraid. He does not spell out what it was exactly that the Spartans were afraid of, and certainly Athens was doing nothing to hurt Sparta itself. But it seems most likely that they feared the gradual diminishing of their status as their allies were pushed back by Athens and came to realise that the Spartans would not stand up to defend them. They may also have feared that if they failed to act soon, they would no longer be able to gather enough military strenh to challenge Athenian supremacy. In 432 BC, a tipping point was reached, and the Spartans ordered the Peloponnesian League to prepare for war.
These were the concrete reasons why the Peloponnesian War broke out. As you can see, none of them have anything directly to do with Sparta. But all of them have to do with Sparta's reputation as the leader of all the Greek states. Sparta's allies were complaining to them and urging them to act against Athens; with every day that passed, the Spartans looked weaker and less able to defend their supreme status among the Greeks. Sparta was still in control of a large network of subject allies known as the Peloponnesian League, but if the states of this League ever became convinced that Sparta would not protect them, Spartan power would swiftly crumble. At some point they knew they would have to act.