I spent my career dealing with historic structures - the humble and the architecturally sophisticated. We can learn a great deal from historic buildings, and I hope all who visit the past via documents keep in mind that it is equally important to visit the past as it is expressed by the remnants that have been left behind.
[<www.csiro.au/en/Research/BF/Areas/Invasive-species-and-diseases/Biological-control/Biocontrol-of-carp.
It was given one of the first ARPA grants, for $1,000,000. Some of the top physics and engineering minds from around the country were brought in, most prominently Freeman Dyson. They solved problems like "how can we deliver just enough energy not to vaporize the ship" and "how fast can we pulsate a shock absorber and not kill passengers" and probably lots of things about directing nuclear blasts that are still classified. They had a semi-serious goal to send a manned mission to the moons of Saturn by the late 1960s. Ultimately, it fell in the cracks between the civilian and military bureaucratic infrastructures; the Air Force couldn't fund anything without direct military use, and NASA wouldn't support anything that relied on classified data. That, combined with the Test Ban Treaty, lead to Project Orion getting the axe in 1965. They got close to testing with an actual nuclear bomb a few times, but could never get both the clearance and the money. They did do a showing proof of concept.
The Murray River here in Australia has been overrun by introduced carp also; whereas other fish species have official bag limits stating how many each angler/boat is permitted to catch and keep per day, as well as a specified minimum lenh, below which they must be returned alive to the water (and yes, random spot checks by authorities are a thing), carp are a very different kettle of fish (pun intended)...
2. For the loyalty shrines, see Tobie Meyer-Fong (2012), What Remains: Coming to Terms with Civil War in 19th Century China, particularly Chapter 5, 'Wood and Ink'.