Dolphins weren't the only thing Lilly was being funded to research by the US government at the time. He was also licensed to study LSD, something the US was very interested in in the 1960s as part of its research into mind-altering substances, mental health treatment, and mind control. Lilly was first introduced to LSD by the wife of Ivan Tors, who had produced the movie Flipper in 1963. Tors funded some of Lilly's research in St. Thomas, and Lilly started giving LSD to dolphins in 1964. He also became a regular user of LSD himself and became deeply interested in its mind-expanding effects: As Ric O' Barry of the anti-whaling Dolphin Project put it, "I saw John go from a scientist with a white coat to a full blown hippy." Although Lilly reported that the dolphins became more “talkative” on LSD, it did nothing to improve their ability to speak English. By 1966 his interest in LSD was overtaking his interest in the dolphin project. The lab was eventually closed as funding dried up. Peter was sent to a lab in Miami where he was kept in a small tank with little sunlight. The separation from Howe Lovatt appeared to cause him great distress. After just a few weeks there, he died by suicide when he refused to resurface to breathe.
I can't talk about the corresponding attitude towards cetaceans and the profession of marine biologist in USSR without veering into conjectures, but I can say all these ideas were absolutely present: both the sci-fi angle of scientific discovery of alien minds (and cetaceans as metaphor for them); and also the fascination with marine life in general, which was likewise spurred by Jacque Cousteau's films — Odyssey of the Cousteau Team episodes were regularly broadcast in USSR since the 70s thanks to the efforts of TV host, doctor and adventurer Yuri Senkevich.
Howe Lowatt gave Peter speech lessons twice a day, and they spent all of their time together. It was her idea to have the house completely waterproofed so that she could live there with Peter full-time. However, complications soon arose from the Dolphinarium which threw the project into controversy. Peter developed a sexual interest in Howe Lowatt. The logistics involved in transporting Peter to a pool where he could interact with female dolphins were considered too much of a disruption to his language lessons, so instead, Howe Lowatt relieved Peter of his sexual urges herself, using her feet to bring him to orgasm. An article on the project in Hustler in the 1970s called "Interspecies Sex: Humans and Dolphins" sensationalized the sexual aspect of the research. This cast a serious shadow on the project, though by that stage the cat was already out of the bag and Lilly's research was drawing attention to the potential of dolphin-human communication.
As unconventional (and unethical) as it was, Lilly's research gave a huge boost to the public interest in the potential of dolphin communication. Even as scientific support for his work evaporated, he published more than a dozen books about his mind-altering experiences, including what he claimed were telepathic communications he’d had with dolphins while on LSD. This soon had an impact on the creative industries. Lilly inspired the main character of Robert Merle's 1967 novel The Day of the Dolphin, in which dolphins are trained to communicate with humans for the purpose of warfare but ended up using their English-language abilities to save humans from nuclear war. In 1970, Roger Payne released the album Songs of the Humpback Whale, which presented recordings of humpback whale sounds as a musical album. The album became the best-selling nature recording in history, and National Geographic even distributed the discs to its 10.5 million subscribers in 1979.