In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Absolutely. Both parties rely on the ability to run on campaign promises that they know they'll never actually have to keep. They would have to change their entire strategy.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Republicans underperformed at historic levels. The red wave failed to materialize. The scenario was perfect for a red wave. High inflation, low approval rating, historically an incumbent loses the midterms with the exception of 1998 (post-Clinton impeachment) and 2002 (post-9/11). On average the incumbent party loses 26 seats, the Dems only held a 15 seat majority and the GOP struggled to pick up seats in swing districts making the House a very tight majority. Moderate democrats managed to hold seats that were expected to go Republican. Furthermore, the Democrats held the senate with a majority of moderate candidates winning eg. Kelly, Hassan, and Cortez Masto.
And yet this minority party repeatedly and frequently makes the disenfranchisement of minorities the conerstone of their agenda, while the party representing the majority is the one empowering and encoding legal protections for legitimate racial and ethnic minorities.
Keep lying to yourself. 46% is very nearly half, just as 51% is just barely over half. The idea that Republicans are a tiny minority is false. You've been lied to.
For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
Not true. Look at presidential elections. District boundaries have absolutely nothing to do with total vote counts. Biden and Trump were nearly even. Biden just BARELY won. This idea that Republicans are a tiny minority is pure nonsense.