There is, of course, a much longer answer leaning on Marx, Hegel, Nietzsche, Kojève, and so on. Some historians do believe that there is an end to history and that history is progressive - thirty years ago Francis Fukuyama wrote a paean to liberal democracy after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Hegel saw Prussia as the end of history.
That said, do note that historical institutionalism takes a very positivist ontological and epistemological view of the world: it relies a lot on observable factors like institutions and the actions of individuals. It's very useful for explaining concrete political change like revolutions and civil wars, but definitely not useful for more interpretation-heavy subfields of history like cultural or social history, nor is it necessarily self-reflexive about their assumptions about historical dynamics, discourses (either during the time or those employed by scholars now), or problems with arbitrary periodization.
For instance, there's a school of thought in comparative political science and political sociology called Historical Institutionalism, which tries to explain how and why societies might experience dramatic change. Similar to how Thomas Kuhne would talk about paradigm shifts, historical institutionalists would see societies functioning along a "path dependent" status quo before being interrupted by a "critical juncture" (say, a revolution), in which a space opens up for a menu of options, possibilities, and chance events that could radically transform the rules and institutions governing that society before becoming fixed into a new dependent path.
Last but not least, Pinker and the Whiggish theory are unbearable. He literally does things which people like you were trained not to do. He sometimes strikes me as a more dangerous pop intellectual than JP.
Note that historical institutionalism is not teleological. Path dependence does not necessarily imply historical progress in a Whiggish way (though political scientists in the West almost all hope critical junctures lead to democracy), and critical junctures are by definition a space where theoretically anything can happen (subject to the amount of constraint you see depending on whether you lean structuralist or voluntarist). Also, insofar as you lean towards the agency side of the debate, it doesn't necessarily promote Great Man Theory; it just means that a person did something at the right time and the right place that had major ripple effects (e.g. Gavrilo Princip was hardly a Great Man of History himself).
'History' really encompasses many dozens of interrelated disciplines, but approaches are necessarily all that similar. There are a lot of ways to study historical questions that have emerged since the 1920s, when Butterfield is writing.