Now the Americans had expected to find basically old men and Eastern European recruits of dubious loyalty protecting the beach. However, due to a couple of different factors the beach defenders were actually reinforced by parts the 352nd infantry Division which was a far more serious opponent than the one expected. The army had also very much stressed attacking the draws/exits because those were the roadways and the quickest way to move tanks and equipment off the beaches. They were also the strongest and most heavily defended parts of the beach though and in fact most (if not all) of the early breakthroughs were achieved by soldiers infiltrating up the front of the bluffs in between the draws and then being able to come around from the sides or behind to clear the draws themselves. These factors are on top of the issues everyone else has mentioned involving the seas being tougher than planned, the ships off Omaha anchoring further out at sea (11mi 15km), and everything else. So basically you have an especially well defended beach that is geographically already pretty defensible and the added problems of trying to launch an amphibious invasion (which is just about always complicated and a bit of a mess) during rougher weather than you were expecting on a scale unprecedented. Frankly, the fact that D-Day went as well as it did with as low of casualties as it did (overall they were well under expectations) is pretty amazing. Though obviously I’m glad I wasn’t on Omaha in the morning of June 6th, 1944. As has been stated though Omaha was really more the exception on D-Day than representative. If you have any more questions feel free to ask.
Operation Overlord included a vast support operation involving hundreds of warships (destroyers, cruisers and battleships) providing fire support and a sustained aerial bombardment, as well as paratrooper airdrops to seize key locations and cut off reinforcements.
This Is an amazing post, but I have one small question? How do you come up with the biggest military operation in history part? Several operations on the Eastern front included many times more men across a much larger area. Is there some qualifier to this that I am missing?
American forces were eventually able to force a beach-head, partly through sheer force of will with scratch units organising under available officers to assault beach defences, particularly on Dog White sector, where several companies and surviving armour landed in a relatively undefended sector and were able to penetrate inland. Several USN warships also closed to within grounding danger range of the beach in order to provide close-range fire support for the landed troops and reduce the German bunkers.
Many of the landing craft coming in off-target hit sandbars, which meant that the troops had to wade in-shore through deep water and many had to abandon their weapons and equipment to avoid drowning. With each unit having been designated specific beach targets, arriving off-target, and often without weapons, equipment or officers threw the whole plan awry. Of 16 engineer teams meant to clear obstacles and get men off the beach, only 5 arrived at their target drop, and three of those then found themselves without any infantry or armour support. Combat engineer units suffered some 40% casualties. This in turn meant that the second wave arrived to find the beach exits still blocked, defences still intact and the first wave unable to provide effective cover.