The militia was a sort of organizational ideal, rather than a consistent coherent organization, and as such its standards of armament, its uniforms, its leadership, and even its branch, were all particular to their region at specific times. However, in general, membership in a militia was restricted to citizens with a vested economic and social interest in their communities. As a part of that interest, they were meant to furnish their own weapons and uniforms according to the local organization, as well as any additional costs; if you were part of a cavalry regiment, for instance, you'd also need a horse and a sword, and if you were part of a cannon crew, you might have to pay into the maintenance costs of your cannon, and pooling money to buy powder and shot.
1. Lee A. Wallace, "The Petersburg Volunteers, 1812-1813," The Virginia Magazine of History and Biography 82, no. 4 (1974): 458, 464. .
The problem was that, without any kind of centralizing authority or central logistics depot, local regions were subject to local logistical problems and, perhaps more importantly, local politics. Some regions spent a great deal of time and money in preparing their militia and using it, and others spent much less time, and even openly protested the necessity of every citizen bearing arms. I went into more detail in In places where militia requirements were taken seriously, fines were levied for failure to muster, failure to keep or maintain your arms, and for other failures to shoulder the duty alongside your community members.
4. Joshua M. Smith, "The Yankee Soldier's Might: The District of Maine and the Reputation of the Massachusetts Militia, 1800—1812." The New England Quarterly 84, no. 2 (2011): 249. .
It's important to point out that the militia was intended to act in the capacity of a standing army to repel invasion and suppress insurrection, and so the militia needed all the things that standing armies would need: cannons and cavalry in addition to infantry. Americans in particular made use of rifle regiments. All of these weapons would be purchased privately and maintained at the cost of the community.