Remember that Deepwater Horizon oil spill in 2010 that pumped oil into the Gulf of Mexico for months? Congress made legislation to prevent another catastrophe. Trump got rid of that regulation because regulations are bad. He also got rid of the train regulation that required trains carrying dangerous chemicals have great brakes…see Ohio train mess. It will cost so much in lawsuits and people’s health. It would have been cheaper to add the brakes.
The US isn’t pushing weapons into Ukraine, the Ukrainians are asking for military aid and the US and her Allies are providing said aid, which isn’t new in terms of conflicts between nations and has been happening all throughout history. Not to mention the reason the aid is even being given to Ukraine in the first place is that Russia has invaded Ukraine, in an attempt to fully absorb Ukraine and retake all former Soviet land. The US under Biden had nothing to do with this until after the war had already started (it’s clear at this point that Trump was trying to pull strings to make a Russian invasion of Ukraine easier. So the US under Trump definitely had something to do with it at that point, but it was on the side of the Russians not the Ukrainians). And of course the Russians have to reaction to Western aid, the stuff the Ukraine is getting is of higher quality and reliability than what Russia is using, and has shown to be able to turn the tide of battle in Ukraine’s favor. Russia has gotten what’s been coming for it for a while now, and has been complaining nonstop about that when they are the ones who instigated everything that has happened it this war. If Russia didn’t want to have the many countries they have pissed off around the world to give aid to Ukraine then why did they invade in the first place?
The only war I could even think you are talking about is the Russian Invasion of Ukraine. Which as seen by the name was started entirely by the Russians. The US, and most certainly Biden, had nothing to do with it.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !