Where do people usually look for newly released high quality history books? I've found a few places which mention older good quality books, like fivebooks for example but nothing which lists/posts about new/upcoming releases (NYT best seller, and other similar sites appear to be filled with pop-history a lot of the time).
23.	Whitney, Elspeth. “Witches, Saints and Other 'Others': Women and Deviance in Medieval Culture.” In Women in Medieval Western European Culture, edited by Linda Elizabeth Mitchell. New York: Garland Pub., 1999.
A historiographically significant work in Southeast Asian history, although the idea of Indianization is outdated.
27.	Langmuir, Gavin. “From Anti-Judaism to Anti-Semitism,” in History, Religion, and Antisemitism (University of California Press, 1990), pp. 275-305.
Since the 1980s there's been a heavier focus on the role of ethnic politics in 1911, and another of Rhoads' books, Manchus and Han: Ethnic Relations and Political Power in Late Qing and Early Republican China, 1861-1928, looks at the background to and course of the revolution specifically from the perspective of the Qing's ethnic politics, homing in on Qing attempts to bolster Manchu identity and political status and the reaction of the Han Chinese. Building on this, Esherick in 2012 published an article in the Journal of Modern Chinese History titled 'Reconsidering 1911: Lessons of a sudden revolution', which is a concise synthesis of the research done since the '70s, but not quite much of a narrative discussion.
25.	Lambert, Malcolm D. Medieval Heresy: Popular Movements from Gregorian Reform to the Reformation. (1992/2002).
Edmund S. K. Fung's 1980 monograph The Military Dimension of the Chinese Revolution: The New Army and Its Role in the Revolution of 1911 looks specifically at the development of the New Army and its role in the revolution, as the army was not uniformly on one side or the other: in Hubei, the army was the centre of the revolutionary uprising, but the divisions making up the Beiyang Army stayed loyal. The second chapter of Edward A McCord's The Power of the Gun (1993) has a briefer discussion of the military aspects of 1911, based partly on Fung's work.