It is very difficult to point to any one single explanation for why Japanese Prime Ministers serve, on average, for a relatively limited period of time - like most political conventions and phenomena, it is the result of a complex set of factors that have built up to make for an inadvertent (and depending on your perspective, potentially quite unfortunate) political position. The short answer is that Japanese political culture and systems have historically developed in such a way that make Prime Ministers less important to the nuances of governing a nation and which encourage factional infighting and contests for factional supremacy with the ruling party that has won all but two general elections in Japan since and including 1958, combined with a basic constitutional framework that gives unpopular Prime Ministers less breathing room to escape pressure from within their own party ranks.
In summary then, Japanese Prime Ministers have struggled to exercise longevity in office for a complex mix of factors that by and large boil down to the effects of a political culture in which executive leadership has been historically less significant than in most democracies for determining the thrust of national decision-making, and the effects of an electoral system in which for most of Japanese history elections were as much about factional infighting within the dominant party as they were a contest for influence and power between the dominant party and a fragmented opposition. There has been a trend of a strenhening of Prime Ministerial power and lenh in office since comprehensive reforms in the early 1990s, following the LDP's 1993 election loss, prompted changes in the voting system and aspects of policy-making, but these have been somewhat slow to filter through. Nonetheless what has happened in Japan is not necessarily unique or inevitable: the same situation has occurred in other parliamentary democracies, including both the United Kingdom and Australia in recent years. What makes it remarkable in the Japanese case is how a political culture and electoral system have conspired together to create something of a 'perfect storm' to promote rapid changes in Japan's political leadership throughout the decades with only a handful of exceptions.
What exactly does that mean ? Are there regular votes he must win, or is it simply the ability of the parliament to tople the PM if they wish so ? Because that isnt particularly uncommon. E.g. germany has the same and generally forms extremely stable and long lasting governments, including having just 8 different chancellors since '49.
Thank you so much! This was fascinating. As someone from a country with a parliamentary system who knows many people here who want a SNTV, it is interesting to see the possible downsides (depending on your view).