This is true, in terms of majority population. There has always been a Jewish presence in the area, but it has been small outside of Jerusalem, which has fluctuated between Christians, Muslims, and Jews. The Ottoman Empire had controlled the area for hundreds of years, and before that Arab Empires, though there are minor interruptions and discrepancies due to rebellions and invasions throughout. Nevertheless, it was the Ottomans who held the area until 1917 or so, when the British captured the area (which they later gave determined borders, under the Mandate for Palestine).
Herzl sought the approval of major powers, as well as their assistance in convincing the Ottomans to grant Jews a semi-autonomous province, or statehood, in the area of modern-day Israel. Despite garnering the support of some leaders, like those in Russia, Herzl died with his dream unrealized in the early 1900s, though not before he had built an organization that would be crucial in the push for Jewish statehood.
You're asking a lot of questions here! To start off, I'll refer you to by u/ghostofherzl. (I would just generally read their answers- they're well written and clear and on a wide variety of topics about Israel.).
The Ottomans had been resistant to Jewish desires to build a state generally, but it was WWI that provided Jews with a new opening to push for autonomy and independence. During WWI, the British (for a variety of complex reasons, dealing with both the course of the war, antisemitism, philosemitism, and other strategic considerations) decided to issue the Balfour Declaration (this was 1917), which accepted and "viewed with favor" the idea of a Jewish "national home" in modern-day Israel. How big this would be was unclear; as the British helpfully noted around 1922 in what is often called the Churchill White Paper, the goal was not a "wholly Jewish Palestine" (by this point, the British defined Palestine as modern-day Israel, Gaza, and the West Bank, though it had been a more fluid region prior to this definition), but simply a Jewish national home "founded in" Palestine, which meant somewhere inside. The subtext was also that a national home did not necessarily mean a full state.