This is a criticism of the belief that the French behaved as cowards in the WWII Battle of France. It is a starting point that might be developed in either of two directions, either by expanding on it with a view to thoroughness or by condensing it with a view to submitting it as a letter to the editor. As a disclaimer, I volunteer that although I intend to be informed in my judgments, I am not an historian but a French major. These are my opinions and they are not authoritative. Most of the facts here have been gleaned from Wikipedia.
\[3\] Lau, Frederick.Music in China: Experiencing Music, Expressing Culture.Oxford University Press, Oxford: 2008.
1. In the Ardennes forest, a “maison forte” positioned at a bottleneck in the road and manned by four French soldiers held at bay a column of German tanks for four hours before running out of ammunition and being killed.
\, and . You hear many percussion textures (GONGS!) in Exhibit A that are reminiscent of Chinese Opera (as well as tell-tale Orientalist signifier of pentatonicism). In exhibit B you hear timbres that can be described as more "nasally", a common feature of Chinese traditional music. \[2\] \[3\].
If Wilson's declaration had, from a diplomatic point of view, the effect of a stopping block on the Italian aspirations – a nec plus ultra - to which the US President remained substantially loyal until the end of his presidency, it also meant that, in its character of a matter of fact statement (given the extreme unbalance of the financial and political relations between Italy and the US at the time, the United States were able to have the last word on the matter, as long as they maintained a military and financial presence in the region), its more immediate negative consequences were to be found in the open deterioration of the relations between the two nations, rather than in its impact on the settlement of the Fiume affair.
2. Colonel but soon to be General, Charles de Gaulle led a tank force in a counterattack against one of Germany’s best theoreticians and commanders, General Heinz Guderian, whose tanks he forced back to within 1 mile of Guderian’s headquarters before being ordered to retreat for lack of support.
On May 10^th 1919, Lt. Le Roy King, assigned to report from Agram (now Zagreb – hence on Croatian matters) since March by the Head of the American Mission to Vienna, the expert of Austro-Hungarian matters Archibald Cary Coolidge, wrote back to the latter:
3. French forces at Dunkirk fought and died, and were deliberately sacrificed to shield the retreating British army from German attack.