They’ve been arrested for holding no signs at all. There was a guy who was just standing with both hands at chest level clutching an invisible sign. He got arrested.
I've read an article about an eastern European country that is actually part of the EU and NATO but has a large percentage of population that is supporting Russian fascist imperialism and Putin, although the current government fully supports Ukraine. 50% of the population has experienced childhood abuse or neglect. 50% of the population is potentially suffering with childhood traumas and cPTSD. Attitudes like beating/smacking children, shaming children, disregarding children's feelings and emotions, are prevalent and part of the fabric of society. People are literally made into sheep by their own parents and the society and set up to fail and suck at life when they grow up. Most of them will never look for psychological help and will go on to damage the next generation as well.
Interesting parallel with pre-imperial Rome. Then there were constant internecine conflicts and vicious civil wars (thank-you corrupt and ambitious Roman senators). When Julius Caesar showed them how to be a good, smart, honest military leader, the jealous Senate couldn't handle that and killed him. But that lead to their golden age as an empire.
Chances are during Iraq these people saying this were not plotting to overthrow the Bush administration, or even leaving the country en masse, or, as I've seen a lot of younger Russians on the internet, at great risk to themselves, donating to organizations that give money to resistance fighters—which, to really hit it home, means they are funding organizations that are killing their countrymen. Not an easy thing, no matter how brutal their country's invasion is. There were a lot of protests for sure before the invasion of Iraq, but when it happened, everyone went on with their lives. Fallujah was getting shelled with depleted uranium munitions while people sent Jibjabs to their coworkers. For the next few years after that, young men were jerking off to Jessica Biel and playing Halo 2, and then later jerking off to Megan Fox and playing Halo 3. We finally left Iraq in 2011, nearly nine years later, and wouldn't leave Afghanistan for another near ten.