While the political aspects of the French Revolution are naturally the 'thread' we follow, and we therefore focus on those men who held political power, it isn't really too much of an oversimplification to say that for the class that proved to be the 'body' of the Revolution, they cared about one thing: bread.
The role of bread in the Revolution proper is more well-known, but many insurrections carried the same trope: while the middle classes were calling for some political action, those who were financially insecure were calling for bread. The journee (day) of October 5th-- when the women of Paris marched to Versailles-- is a great example of the dual-needs. The financially stable (i.e. not going to starve in times of bread shortage) middle-to-upper class liberals had been proferring for a while that, in order to achieve political gains in the National Assembly (breaking the deadlock over the King's veto) that the King would need to be relocated to Paris. This purely political talk, however, could have remained purely theoretical had not the women of Paris, grown sick of standing in hours-long bread lines only to be told they were out, tired of watching their children starve, decided to march to Versailles and bring back the King to show him that his people were suffering. The women hardly cared about the vote over the King's veto-- if they knew about it at all-- but the political aims of the upper classes had mingled with the idea of the King as "father-protector" (likely at the Palais-Royale, the main hub in Paris where such peoples overlapped) and the women acted (followed closely by the newly minted French National Guard).
Thanks for your answer. I must say it's impressive to see that a country with so many internal difficulties managed to repel a coalition composed of half of Europe. I'm sorry but... ah, screw it, I cannot resist the temptation of asking you something about Robespierre : I know he wasn't the bloodthirsty madman he's often portrayed to be, but I'm still puzzled by his positions in 1794, mainly his contribution, or at least his approval of the elimination of men who were long considered as heroes of the Revolution such as Danton, and a man like Desmoulins, who was I think a close friend. I know that Danton and co were executed because they advocated for leniency in a time of crisis, but I cannot help but find this explanation a bit shallow, especially since the crisis seemed to be fading away at this point (april 1794). Was there something else ?
Absolutely! Price-controls were one of the most important aspects of the Terror. They had long been a demand of the wage-earning lower classes. Essentially those who were at risk of starvation when bread prices skyrocketed. Their demand was simple: price controls on bread (and other necessities, such as soap) that would ensure they weren't at the whim of a "free" market.