While there are always new questions or suggestions which can be made, there are many which have been previously addressed - including variations of an 'answered/unanswered/responded' flair. As a rule, to stand even if they are repeats, but we would nevertheless encourage you to check out the as it is possible that your query is addressed there. Frequent META questions include:
(Or, if what you're saying is that upvoting of rule-violating comments happens quickly enough that the bot could get a false positive when tons of people instantly upvote a rule-violating comment before the mods can flag it, and the bot sees it in that moment—well, that is simply fixed by adding an additional criterion to its check: "is this comment at least N minutes old", where N is the 99th percentile of response-time between someone posting a comment and the mods seeing said comment. I.e., if the mods delete 99% of rule-violating comments within an hour, then it would only promote a post if it has at least one one-hour old comment that is upvoted past some threshold.).
Sure, traceability, transparency. But to allow no exceptions ever on any sub is a crying shame. If your sub requires heavy moderation to work then it's always going to create a huge mess that negatively impacts readability.
Except...no answers. Maybe there'll be one three days from now, but by then I'll have forgotten about it. And I'll never remember to go back and check. Rinse, and repeat.
In fact, I imagine that such a subreddit would be something that the AH mods would honestly prefer to link to in several places, as a suggested subreddit for people to follow in place of AH if "AH questions that already have some interesting conversation attached to them" is what they want to see in their Reddit frontpage. (One benefit of advising people to consume such a secondary product—one that likely links to the AH threads using the no-participation np. Reddit subdomain—is that it would likely decrease the temptation for "bad" engagement by the sorts of people who have strong opinions and itchy trigger-fingers to provide them but know they're not the sort of people who should comment here.).
We're not prepared to introduce a because it simply comes with all the issues of workload, unreliability, flair discouragement, and inviting answers because "there's nothing here yet,' but even worse because it's pointless in a community dedicated to high-quality responses to hand out a thread flair for low quality responses.
Sure? But many people who already use Reddit assume that the best way to consume the content of a User-Generated Content sub like AH is by... subscribing to said subreddit. Which really, really isn't the case for AH. I don't use Twitter, or Facebook, or email much to consume interesting articles. I use Reddit.