Ancient Egyptian religion is stereotyped as being incredibly conservative, changing little over the millennia that it was practiced in the Nile Valley, and this is misleading. Religious changes happened in Egypt as they did anywhere else, and the practices, important deities, and cultic sites was always subject to a certain amount of ebb and flow over the course of history. In general a few things can be said, but we should acknowledge that these are generalizations. The religious practices of the Egyptians had adapted well to the intrusions of the Persians, Macedonians, and Romans following the end of native Egyptian rule for centuries by the time of Late Antiquity, but these same tradtions and practices vanished rather rapidly in the third-fourth centuries. So what happened to cause these millennia old traditions and practices to disappear so quickly? There are essentially two stories to tell here. One of the "official religion" that would be familiar with priests, temples, and state support, and the other is harder to describe and has to do with the rural communities that you might assume would have resisted conversion for longer than urban centers in Egypt.
Undoubtedly in some rural areas there were still more traditional and conservative practices going on, but in the face of Christian dominance over Egypt they eventually disappeared, having been reduced in status and importance for some time. It is extremely unlikely such "pagan" communities survived the end of Roman authority in Egypt, much less survived into Islamic times in Egypt. Numerous laws passed against public practice of pagan religious traditions were issued under later emperors and temples were closed, festivals ended, and Christian institutions supported in their place. It is really impossible to tell when the last household or family stopped their traditional practices and embraced, or at least accepted, the new religion sweeping the countryside, but evidence of Egyptian indigenous religious practice peters out by the 4th century in Egypt as I mentioned above. However there is a second act to this story. In the area of Philae, south of Ancient Egypt, traditional practices continued for a few more centuries following the end of the religion in Egypt proper. The temple to Isis here was only closed in the 6th century by Justinian the Great. At this point it is assumed that population assimilated into Christian practices found in Egypt proper. The idea that these practices and beliefs survived the end of Roman authority in Egypt, following either the Persian Conquest of Egypt from the Eastern Romans in the 7th century or the subsequent seizure of Egypt by Islamic forces shortly afterwards belongs, like the idea of pagan Scandinavians in Napoleonic times, in the realm of fiction.
That is an awesome answer. Is this a response you wrote for something else that you copied to answer the OP or did you write that from scratch just now?
I think what makes it more cult-ish is that people were consistently doing things like taking omens for major decisions, offering libations and food offerings to dead family members at stones, mounds and trees, and to landscape and house spirits as part of day to day farming tasks, as well as major annual activities, medical emergencies and life events. Some are recorded by horrified priests in the early 19th century as keeping idols, or an empty place for an idol, which were "invited" and offered food and drink on holidays.