This is of course a history sub, not a law sub. Mods can evaluate whether a comment on how the term is used in law is within the rules. I think the way the terms are used legally is of interest to their use in history, the legal use in some cases deviates from some of the usage so far in this thread. But I'm ok with this being deleted as well.
is a pdf sheet from the UN as to how they navigate the use of the term, describing indigenous peoples as "retain[ing] social, cultural, economic and political characteristics that are distinct from those of the dominant societies in which they live." Maybe you could say this sort of understanding applies to the Gaeltacht regions, but I'm not sure you could say the same for the modern Irish state or national identity. And I go back to the example of Wolfe Tone - was he "indigenous"? Or a settler colonist? Is that even the best framework for understanding his place in Irish society of the time?
The Commission noted that a lot of the Charters rights depended on being a separate "people" (indigenous peoples included), and defined indigenous peoples by four criteria "the occupation and use of a specific territory; the voluntary perpetuation of cultural distinctiveness; self-identification as a distinct collectivity, as well as recognition by other groups; an experience of subjugation, marginalisation, dispossession, exclusion or discrimination. The Working Group also demarcated some of the shared characteristics of African indigenous groups: … first and foremost (but not exclusively) different groups of hunter-gatherers or former hunter-gatherers and certain groups of pastoralists…… A key characteristic for most of them is that the survival of their particular way of life depends on access and rights to their traditional land and the natural resources thereon".
Well, yes possibly. Around the turn of the 17th century and about to the mid 1600s a fair number of people moved from the Eastern-lands of Sweden (aka modern Finland) into the sparsely habited deep forests of western Sweden towards the border with Norway.