Are you sure her psychiatrist said she could go off the meds? Because many people who have psychotic need to stay on medication but will also suffer from anosognosia meaning they don't believe need help. I've worked with many people who are psychotic and many don't believe the link between their lack of symptoms and being on medication. That's partly why they have long term medication that can be injected on a monthly basis because they may decide to skip their meds because "they're fine now." I say this because based on that, I'd question seriously any account of hers about her behavior.
A defendant can absolutely refuse representation. Can a defendant with mental disability refuse - it depends. It’s still somewhat a grey area. If the court doesn’t know yet a defendant is mentally ill then they will see them as a normal defendant. You should contact a defense attorney. The best option is the court identifies this as mental illness and diverts court mandated psychiatric outpatient or a court mandated psychiatric hospital for a little.
4. This one hits home as my uncle is schizophrenic and we’ve been through this before. Simple and shitty answer is “no.” They have the same rights as you and I without documentation otherwise (I.e. POA).
In response to your questions though, not a lawyer so can't give you much advice but but I've been arrested and at least in my state they give you a form where you sign that you're indigent and need public representation while you're in the jail.
5. You can Baker Act her. In Florida it’s almost worthless from a practical perspective. Try and figure out her court date and make sure you attend. Speak with the bailiff ahead of time and see if you can speak to the judge. Depending on the place/time you might be able to at least let the court know what’s been going on. They’ll still hit her with a FTA, but it’s worth a shot.
I’m partial to public defender representation. We specialize in criminal law and have a ton of experience dealing with the mentally ill population. Of course, that is not to say that some private counsel don’t know how to deal with an ill client. Also, some public defenders can be careless because of their extremely high workload so it’s good that she has family that can advocate for her and keep the public defender’s feet to the fire.
2. She can definitely refuse representation and there’s nothing you or your family can do about it. If the judge finds her incompetent then they might make her have representation but it’s not a given.