And, notably, other languages had their own terminology. As far as I know (and being a native German, you may know better than I do), the first World War was always called the "Weltkrieg" in the German language, and nothing else ever really rivaled it as an "official" name. Designating it as the "Erste Weltkrieg" came at pretty much the same time as in the English-speaking world. That is, once Germany invaded Poland in September 1939, and the UK and France responded by declaring war on Germany, the German press quickly acknowledged the events as shaping up to be a "Zweiter Weltkrieg", and so the original "Weltkrieg" was retroactively designated as the "erste" one.
But anyway, back to the main question. Does the First World War get overshadowed in historiography and popular imagination by the Second World War? Absolutely. This is in no small part because the second war was bigger and more recent. However the centenary has spurred quite a bit of new books (popular and academic), plus films, documentaries, and exhibits, as well as popular discussion. Probably more of that is needed, and more studying of the First World War on its own terms, rather than as a prelude to other events, is also needed. I'm not sure that renaming the conflict really would help though, nor is it really the right course of action. You can't really decouple the two wars - most of the leaders of the second war were participants or heavily shaped by the first (Churchill uniquely was in the British Cabinet for both wars), and the Second World War absolutely was a consequence of the First World War - you cannot really understand why it happened without the First World War as background.
As for the First World War (or World War, or Great War), just to build on the previous comment - historians even argue whether "First World War" is an accurate description of 1914-1918, given that the Seven Years' War is sometimes claimed as the first "world" war (apparently Winston Churchill argued this, and it has popped up from time to time ever since....lots of people argue that it should be considered the first World War, but somehow no one ever is able to definitively make that name stick).