Oh cool! Thanks for coming out. I don't know much about Jacobitism - was it all about restoring the House of Stuart to the English/Scottish throne, or were there other aspects of what it meant to be a Jacobite?
Jacobitism undoubtedly resonates today. Just have a look at the Outlander effect upon the Scottish tourism industry to catch a glimpse of what's happened in recent years alone. Unfortunately, traditional Jacobite symbolism has also been massively hijacked by some modern Scottish nationalists and many monarchical legitimists to form a kind of elitist neo-Jacobitism that has virtually nothing to do its historical antecedent. Highland identity has been likewise appropriated for generations and has been conflated both with Jacobitism and also with a general 'Scottishness' that does not even come close to representing the remarkable diversity of cultures and backgrounds in the nation today. For diasporic communities (especially in North America), I see a locational and temporal disconnection from distinct cultural identities that tends to drive some in those communities to artificially 'claim' membership, thereby fulfilling personal or familial longevity and, with it, a sense of meaning or belonging. (Consider the mind-blowing success of DNA testing companies in the past decade. Claim that culture!).
The BBC Documentary Series "Battlefield Britain" has an episode about the Jacobite Rising of 1745, and essentially says that unless Prince Charles hadn't been lied to about the size of government forces by Dudley Bradstreet, the Jacobite army could have marched on London and been victorious. Is this accurate? Also, the same documentary makes Culloden out to be a knife's edge style battle, where it could have gone either way. Is this for dramatic effect or is it accurate?
In addition to the re-establishment of dynastic sovereignty, these motives included issues of religious/confessional tolerance, economic freedom and stability, and considerations of identity during an important period of emergent British and Scottish proto-nationalism. Much of my work, too, focuses in the large array of practical reasons why individuals subscribed or were compelled to subscribe to Jacobite directives, whether that be supportive or combative. But if we had to distill Jacobitism down into one bite-sized elevator pitch, the most accurate would have been 'we're keen on restoring the House of Stuart to the thrones of the Three Kingdoms, as God has mandated and as we have long-believed is the natural order of things'. The figurehead of that restoration by 1745, of course, was James Francis Edward Stuart, who would have been James VIII/III had the movement that bore his namesake successfully brought his family back to power.
Hi! It seems to me that during the 1715 rising, there was much support of the rebellion in the north of England, while in 1745 this support appears to have largely dissipated. Is this perception correct, and if so what were the reasons for the support of jacobitism in northern England, and why did these reasons decline in the decades following the failure of the 1715 rebellion in England, but not in Scotland?
Hiya Tango! This is an excellent question, and while I have some opinions about this, I'm by no means an expert in the matter. For what it's worth, I believe it would be difficult to refute the fact that Jacobite-leaning elites used particular members of the Tory party by proxy to represent their interests. I'm also confident that numerous officials in the party were either committed or flirtatious Jacobites or saw some benefit in hampering the Whig agenda either personally or systemically. This doesn't add anything new to the discussion, though. There was an attachment between the two, but the nature of that attachment is still being debated in the field. It's pretty clear that any opportunity to officially link the parties had died out by 1722, so by the Forty-five the Stuarts had very few friends in British governmental positions of power.