As a brief reminder, this post is for experts to post about how Crusader Kings II represents history (or doesn't). As such, any comments that ask questions on this post will be removed. Next week, there will be an AMA thread on the topic, where we'll be throwing the floor open to questions.
Fundamentally, learning about history via GSGs has the effect of severely diminishing one's understanding and appreciation of the role of uncertainty in historical decisions and decision-making processes. From the perspective of an ameteur historian, history is littered with lost opportunities in which the Byzantine Empire could have made a comeback, or the Russians could have beat off the Mongols, or the Crusaders could have retaken Jerusalem. What they often miss is that the people in the position to make decisions, both at these crucial turning points and in day-to-day affairs, were privy to very limited information. They had uncertaintly over the strenh and trustworthiness of their own allies, and uncertainty over the intentions and strenh of those polities and people around them. It is very easy to armchair-general the Third Crusade with 20/20 hindsight or a computer simulation, but in reality, rulers and other decision-makers had to make choices based on what they knew to be imperfect and incomplete information. When we lose sight of the gritty reality of historical decision-making, we lose a great deal of nuance when it comes to discussing history as a whole as well as particular decisions with significant historical impact. In particular, ignoring the role of information tends to lead to idealization of successful historical figures who succeeded in part because they made the right educated guess given limited information (Emperor Alexios gambling that the Anatolian Turks wouldn't/couldn't unite against his campaigns) and vilification of historical figures who made understandable, yet incorrect decisions based on limited and/or imperfect information (see: Chamberlain, Neville).
The names are… weird. They use “Tibet” for the empire, which is a pretty modern development, but has historical precedents in Turkish and Indian languages. I was impressed by their use of “Maryul” in what would usually be called “Ladakh.” “Maryul” literally means “Red Country,” a common epithet of Ladakh. But then they use Ü-Tsang, which is a combination of two areas in Tibet, Ü and Tsang. Not totally weird, but it is more than anachronous. But the one that gets me is the use of “Bhutan” as far back as 769. “Bhutan” as a term wasn’t mutually exclusive with “Tibet” until 1776 when George Bogle decided to designate the “northern realm of the Teshoo Lama” as “Tibet” and the “southern realm of the Deb Raja” as “Bhutan.” The most accurate names to apply to the country in the time period are “Mon” (the land of darkness, i.e. the land without Buddhism), “Lhomonkhazhi” (the southern dark land of four approaches), Menjong (the land of medicine, a reference to the area’s flora), or just “Lho” or “Lhomon” which would be my choices. Both refer to “south,” and “Lho” is the very simple name by which the country’s founder, Zhabdrung Ngawang Namgyal” referred to it. The one the devs would probably like, though, would be Drukyul, Country of the Dragons, both for its name, it’s bridge between ancient and modern, and the fact that it’s not so obscure. Then again… Maryul.
The game would need to maintain an isochronic map of the game world, centered around the player's headquarters, similar to what's described here: And this would allow for its own tradeoffs of moving your headquarters closer to a theater of combat, and increasing the accuracy of reports from some regions, but penalizing it from others. If the player was Napoleon, they can command more effectively from the field, but then they have to rely on ministers for levying reinforcements and managing taxes, which presumably the player could do better if he stayed behind in Paris.
Hello! I'm a lonime CK2 and Paradox player, albeit without true academic qualifications (yet, give it a year). Other people already have and will continue to comment on particular aspects of the game's approach towards history in particular geographic and/or temporal frameworks, but I wanted to comment on something else, specifically how CK2, and nearly all Grand Strategy Games handle information. See, in a GSG, the player is privy to a near omniscient degree of information about both their own realm and other realms. This is completely ahistorical (though completely understandable from a gameplay standpoint) and in my view can warp how people who play GSGs view history, particularly historical decision-making processes.
I can’t tell why the devs use that weird Bhutan flag. They’re clearly aware of the more detailed and accurate white dragon that current sits on Bhutan’s flag. They use the proper dragon for the Fascist, Communist, and Republic alternate history versions in the Victoria series. But for some reason, the modern and proper flag uses a weird green dragon instead. Other than the obvious (the flag is a modern creation dating from the 1930s), I feel like there’s a regulation regarding the use of the proper Bhutan flag that I can’t find and the devs are respecting (for whatever reason). That said, I can’t find it. If I had to choose a historical symbol more accurate to Lhomon’s creation as a separate entity, I’d choose the Yes, it’s just as anachronous as the Flag of Bhutan, but it’s closer to the CK2 time period, and it’s the oldest symbol of the region’s separate identity.
1. The opinion of every NPC towards the player's character; as well as to other NPCs. Furthermore, the player knows WHY a character likes them or doesn't like them, based on trait combinations, player or NPC actions, religion, events, etc.
Monastic Feudal Government. Er… ok. In the 769 start date, about half of Tibet starts with this government type despite it making no sense. Tibet’s era of monastic-based governance wouldn’t begin until after the fall of the Tibetan Empire and the rise of the Sarma (New Schools). The Tibetan Empire, according to Christopher Beckwith, operated with a mobile capital until the construction of a castle in Rasa and the change of the city’s name to Lhasa (from “Place of Goats” to “Place of the Gods”). Even then, the Empire had to remain highly mobile and modeled their army after their northern nomadic neighbors. In other words: the Empire under Trisong Detsen should start as Nomadic Government. Only in later start dates should Tibetan cultures have the option of upgrading holdings to either Castles, Cities, or Gonpas which would change the government type.