This sucks for you but I imagine if it's because the synagogue asked and for whatever reason they agreed, then since it's part of their agreement with the synagogue and not just the school deciding to impose their own religious rule it'd be OK. Then again I'm no lawyer, if you want some solid advice here you should contact one as there's a lot more stuff muddled in here that would usually be clear cut "yes" or "no". This is doubly true if the synagogue already had a rule about non-kosher food not being allowed on premises and so didn't think to include it as a clause in that agreement which this led to this mixup with both sides making assumptions. This is what you should do regarding the school. If you qualify I'd recommend turning to the LA legal aid society to see if they can help. This isn't on the list of things they do but it also isn't on their list of don'ts so it could go either way. You can check them out at lafla.org.
Kosher rules and Jewish laws on kosher: "Kosher" by itself isn't necessarily a religious diet on its own, while it is originated from Jewish biblical law, but it can have a range of factors that would make it a religious diet. For the purposes of this post, I'm labeling religious/Jewish-only kosher restrictions as non-kosher, and complete kosher restrictions as unkosher. For example, pork is not kosher at all (unkosher), but cow meat not slaughtered properly with the religious blessings or was defective is invalid "treif" and not-kosher, but would otherwise be kosher if done properly. Having dairy and meat together in the same dish is unkosher but not treif, because there is no religious-accepted way to have the two together. Fish and ocean-life are applicable, where all fish except catfish are acceptable (fins and scales needed), and no crustaceans or mollusks are allowed. Fish and meat are fine on their own but not together, and unlike the cheeseburger, this scenario is non-kosher, not unkosher. Greens like lettuce need to be checked for insects to be done properly, and they are non-kosher otherwise, the insects are not permitted to be eaten by a Jewish person.