I don’t see any answers posted here yet so I’m going to jump in and answer a bit. I’m sure there’re people who are more qualified than me who can provide you more info. I’m from China and I studied Middle Eastern studies in the Middle East and North America for my BA. However my current studies for MA is translations/interpreting.
The people of this country are all tall and honest. They resemble the people of the Middle Kingdom and that is why this kingdom is called Da Qin \[literally, ‘Great China’\].
The Kingdom of Da Qin (the Roman Empire) is also called Lijian. As it is found to the west of the sea, it is also called the Kingdom of Haixi (Egypt). Its territory extends for several thousands of li. It has more than four hundred walled towns. There are several tens of smaller dependent kingdoms. The walls of the towns are made of stone.
I’m summarizing the articles written by the famous Chinese historian Yaoguang Ge from Fudan Univeristy, published in the academic journal by his own university: excerpts:
If you frequent the sub, you know the drill. If you're here from /r/all, or browse only occasionally, please be aware we have strict rules here intended to enforce the very high bar we expect from comments, so before posting, please read our . We remove comments which don't comply, and consider everyone forewarned. If you have feedback or commentary about how things are run here, please don't post it in this thread. We'll just remove it. We love to hear thoughtful, constructive feedback via however.
Interesting. As I understand it, apart from Sasanian envoys, their main exposure would've been to Sogdian (geographically, Sogdia = Tajikistan) mercenaries (perhaps the most famous person of probable Sogdian descent was "Roxshan the Bukharan", better known as An Lushan). The early Tang's ample support for the remnants of the Sasanians, including an army and prestigious military commands that recognized them as royalty, would suggest that such stereotypes were not quite universal.