In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
wtf? Why do I CONSTANTLY hear this shit from literally every non Dutch person?! And EVERY Dutch person will flat out lie and deny it, then start attacking you for saying something. This is why I'm always super loud about this shit. I lived there and worked in kitchens and holy fuck are they mean. It's not just the racism but literally everything else. Like everyone else is stupid, fat, ugly, etc but definitely not them lmao.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
A corporation the size of Walmart certainly has the metrics so close at hand that they could easily adjust the exact percentages on employee discount by category to account for elasticity by leaning into economies of scale advantages while indemnifying themselves from any diseconomies of scale.
Idk. When I was young I was always told/thought everyone wanted to move to the US. But when I lived in Cambodia in 2012 nobody wanted to move to America, they all wanted to move to Singapore. I suspect it might have always been a bit of American exceptionalism in America to think that, at least since the 2000s and the Bush Era. But who knows, I could be wrong.
Pharmaceutical companies are multinational cartels, and the majority of insulin sold abroad is made by the same companies who produce the insulin sold in the U.S.
. I am confused as hell that the Dutch don't self reflect when pretty much everyone else can't stand to be around them. And often they can't stand themselves either lol. Like their "jokes" that are just verbal abuse, and the aggressive behavior they have when needing to board a bus/train or get groceries, or wait their turn for literally anything lol. I remember seeing an elderly woman who had trouble walking and needed help to cross the street. Those of us who helped her weren't Dutch lol. I just don't get the nasty and selfish attitude they have. What a horrible way to live.
Even if the employee discount offsets a little bit of the profit margin, they still benefit by making more sales because their negotiating power increases with ability to buy more units and decrease the cost per unit. It’s such a greedy and short-sighted approach, and flies in the face of everything we were ever taught about capitalism and microeconomics.