Honestly, I'd agree with u/Kugelfang52 here that using Soviet/Nazi schools as they actually existed is a much more straightforward approach here that would hopefully retain a great deal of relevance to the students. There's some great scholarship on the subject, and certainly the ways that Nazism functioned in schools offers some crucial and fascinating insights into the nature of the regime. Material on the Hitler Youth (as well as 'alternative' youth groups like the Edelweiss Piraten) would also provide a logical and overlapping topic to discuss.
I think the point my colleague and I were perhaps trying to get across is that if you want to understand the way that the Nazis ruled and what they believed, a Nazi school is actually a really good microcosm. How schools changed under the Third Reich are a great reflection of the wider changes wrought by the new regime. What happens to a traditional authority structures when you introduce parallel - and increasingly intertwined - sources of authority in a single party state? What changes are made to what gets taught? Who is now excluded - in terms of both staff and students - on the grounds of politics and race? How does propaganda become a part of everyday life? Why was dissent - or resistance - so difficult? These are big questions about the Nazi regime, that can be answered through reference to their schools just as well as (or better than) anything else.
There is actually some work being done on the relationship between education and democracy/totalitarianism/etc. One work to check out is Thomas Fallace's In the Shadow of Authoritarianism. He addresses how various perceived forms of authoritarianism, such as "prussianism" and totalitarianism, shaped educational ideas in the US.
1. Race\- It seems this under fascism could be quite an easy thing to deal with in my analogy. My school is a private school- it admits students on the basis of many many things (including nationality!). Essentially, any minority/peoples perceived to denigrated the value of the school identity would be analogous to the jews/homosexuals/gypsies/disabled within the Nazi regime. My students could certainly understand how these populations were "othered" and perceived to be damaging to the intellectual and cultural "purity" of the true "school identity".