Done, although several mandatory questions I couldn't answer and thus defaulted to "3" (e.g., I never even see the other people living in this building, so how would I know what they do?).
Hand-calculation has some effects. If you're looking for something in particular, there aren't many effects. But when you try to prove a negative (that "no other eclipses" could have been the Eclipse of Cleombrotus) is what I am challenging. To note the very minor "darkening of the moon" is quite an impressive feat, and the only reason I did it is because I went through the entire 5-millennium canon of solar eclipses during that time. I don't think they did that because it is too labor-intensive, and there was already a ready solution: the October 2, 480 BC eclipse.
the source of the confusion is by ignoring the 1 August 477BC eclipse, and shifting the entire timeline to the 2 October 480 BC eclipse.
The main issue I have with the treatment that I have seen is that nobody even discusses the fact that there was an eclipse in the exact place and time of year that Herodotus claims in 7.37. If it has been considered and dismissed, then that’s the info I’m looking for. The thing that scares me (and leads me to write what I did at the link) is that nobody seems to have considered it. They all seem to cite to Airy.
Joan Scott’s essay "Gender: A Useful Category of Historical Analysis" is a pretty good introductory summary for historians, as is having read a bit of sociology of knowledge .
And the other problem is the Olympiad. We know what years there were Olympic Games in. 480 was an Olympic year, 477 was not – that year would have seen the Nemean and Pythian Games instead. The reason why the February 478 eclipse hasn't been considered in the scholarship is because it doesn't need to be: there has been more than enough evidence to say with absolute certainty that the Persians invaded Greece in 480. And like I said, even if Kleombrotos' eclipse was that of August 477, the February 478 eclipse would have happened far too early to be relevant, and indeed leaves Xerxes' eclipse even more inexplicable.
Even working within Herodotos, the alternate eclipse you suggest, that of 1 August 477, doesn't accord with the timeline he gives us. The Battle of Salamis and Kleombrotos' rituals at 9.10 postdate the battles of Thermopylai and Artemesion, which took place (according to Hdt. 7.206.1-2) during or soon after both of: a) the festival of the Karneia, which took place in the second quarter of the month Metageitnon (i.e. the end of August); and b) the Olympic Games (which occurred in August/September). 1 August 477 is not a viable candidate for the time of Kleombrotos' eclipse because said eclipse must necessarily postdate the Karneia and the Olympic Games, which would take place when August was well underway. The only way around it is if you're suggesting that Kleombrotos' eclipse took place some 10 months after Thermopylai and Artemision, but then you would have to explain the complete silence of both Herodotos and Diodoros as to what would have occurred in those intervening 10 months. There is nothing to suggest a particularly considerable gap between the battles of Artemision and Salamis (indeed, Herodotos' account clearly shows the two were no more than about two weeks apart, give or take), and everything to say that the former was in early/mid September and the latter in late September/early October of the same year – indeed, the above-quoted passage of Herodotos (8.51.1) shows that Salamis took place four months after the Persians launched their invasion, not over a year.
4,321 [Great Question!] How did countries like Qin Dynasty China or the Ottoman Empire react to Charles Darwin’s Origin Of The Species?