To start with, this is r/AskHistorians so I am going to give you a different answer than I would had this been posted in r/Worldbuilding or r/FantasyWriters . We don't prohibit questions related to research for creative writing here, but at the same time, we are going to approach questions asked from a historians point of view.
1. There's a reason militaries started to transition to not using armor once guns became a thing. Wearing enough steel to stop a bullet would be prohibitively expensive, with only nobles being able to afford it, and it would weigh a ton. The steel plate we are used to seeing might be enough to stop the pocket guns, but a any rifle rounds, especially if they are spitzer point bullets will go through. Even if it stops it, the energy still has to go somewhere and that could be fatal.
Well the thing is that the weapons you're describing--cartridge rifles like the Martini-Henry--were prominent specifically because they vastly increased the rate of fire an individual soldier was able to put out, espescially compared to matchlock weapons from the time period where armored heavy cavalry was still an important part of military operations. Furthermore, weapons like the Martini-Henry had a much greater effective range than older weapons, which means the distance at which a charging cavalry unit can come under effective fire is much further away. While a cavalry charge might have well been able to overcome the single volley a musket armed unit could put out in the time it took to cover the distance from 'maximum effective firing range' to 'oh god he's in my face stabbing me', they would be much less able to do so against a unit of infantry armed with breech loading cartridge weapons.
2: Hmmm. Maybe both. I like to think of the gun as "the new gadget from the south" and of the sword as the "ol' reliable steel". Also since swordsmanship is both a tradition and a battlefield custom, swords still have their place as partners for cavaliers, knights, officers and bodyguards.
2. If guns are expensive, I'd go there other way. They'd be a sign of nobility and shown off to show the users wealth and power.