The concept of socialized medicine has been in political consideration in the United States since at least the 1930s, when it was proposed as a part of Social Security. The latter passed in 1935, while the former was abandoned. Two primary differences separated the two: firstly, the fact that social security targeted elderly populations, an attractive demographic due to voting habits; and secondly, the degree of opposition among business groups to socialized medicine.^1.
4. that even limited forms of socialized healthcare were "only a forerunner to the injection of medical care as a categorical benefit under old age and survivors insurance," followed by rhetoric on how medical insurance was opposed by the American people and would destroy the healthcare system.^2.
3. that socialized medicine was "totally inconsistent with the philosophy heretofore underlying Federal participation in public assistance programs... that Federal participation in such programs is a temporary expedient." They believed that federal programs such as Social Security were intended only as a temporary measure, and that local assistance programs were intended to take over. Medicare would drastically increase federal influence.^2.
This isn't precisely an answer to the question you asked, but I think you might still find it interesting. There are several books on the passage of the ACA that definitely address the role of special interests including the various players of the "medical establishment" and how they sought to influence the ACA, one of the largest social welfare laws passed in recent memory. There are three that come to mind:
Looking at the national healthcare debate through this lens, I would surmise that the answer to your original question might be that many doctors now see for-profit health insurance companies and integrated healthcare organizations (whether they be for-profit or not-for-profit) as a bigger threat to their professional autonomy than an expanded role for government. Thus, the shift to support Medicare for all might be the profession choosing the “lesser of two evils”, so to speak.