Judea in the first century was a Roman province, and as such fell within the ambit of the Roman law. Thus, any action would have been made under the Roman legal system, which differentiated heavily between citizens and non-citizens. The first question to ask is, were both of the parties (the pigheard and the mystic) Roman citizens? If yes, then the claim would fall under the ius civile, or the Civil Law. The ius civile, which had pre-Roman Republic origins, had become highly developed by the 1st century, with the principal sources of law being statutes \[leges; singular lex\] made by the legislative assemblies, and the Edict made by the Praetors (sort of like an Attorney-General, who held office for a year), which detailed the formula for various actions. There were two Praetors, who each had a different Edict: the Urban Praetor was in charge of Roman citizens, and the Peregrine Praetor was in charge of peregrines (non-citizens).
If neither party were Roman citizens (the proper term for non-citizens was Peregrines), or indeed if one party was a citizen and the other party was a Peregrine (the law on this is less clear), they would come under the ambit of the Peregrine Praetor, whose Edict was the chief source of law for Peregrine issues. David Daube has this to say:
Another edit, the translation I was using isn't great, after looking at the latin the punishment would likely come down as follows: if the pigs were taking by force, vi bonorum raptorum, a fourfold penalty; if the pigs were taken non-violently and the mystic was caught in the act, manifesti furti, a fourfold penalty; or if the pigs were taken non-violently and the mystic was not caught, nec manifesti furti, twofold penalty.
This is a great question! I guess much of the verdict would turn on the evidence given by witnesses and so forth: whether it was enough to persuade the iudex to their side of the argument. Note that intent is immaterial - the only relevant question was whether the mystic caused the pigs to drown; if he did, then he was liable under the Lex Aquilia.
As such, it didn't matter if the mystic intended to kill the pigs - the only relevant question was whether he did kill the pigs; whether he caused the pigs to die. If he did, then he was liable under the Lex Aquilia.
The Lex Aquilia did not have provisions for intent, and was strict liability. This is in contrast with theft (furtum) and insult/outrage (iniuria), which did require theftuous/contumelious intent. A likely explanation is that Lex Aquilia liabilities are perhaps meant to be more compensatory than punitive, as evidenced by its damage for the value of the thing damaged or killed, as opposed to theft, which compensates for anything between twofold to fourfold the value of the thing stolen.
but the story doesn't take place in judea. it takes place in either gerasa or gadara depending on manuscript. both of those cities were autonomous city states of the decapolis at the time.
What happens procedurally after a successful action is not well-documented - much of the surviving legal literature deals with the substantive law, rather than procedural or administrative concerns.
This is a bit of a stretch but I'll do the best I can. Although I am not familiar with any written or case law that has survived from the first century, I am familiar with Roman civil law that was published in the 6th century AD. Although the passage of time between first century Roman Judea and 6th century Roman Judea may have changed the relevant Roman laws, the Corpus Juris Civilis (CJC) of the 6th century was based on a long history of Roman legislation and can hopefully give us some insight into how the Roman legal system handled civil cases like this.
Good question. I'm right now doing a moot about treasure, and I found a rescripta \[a statement the Emperor makes with legal authority, in response to a question\] from the Emperor Leo (5th century AD) that suggests a belief in magic, though this is not specific to the Lex Aquilia: