A couple of ways. Some Confederates just bite the bullet and argue that the Founders are wrong about stuff and that their counterrevolution of treason in defense of slavery is going to perfect things by fixing their errors, but that is a minority view. More often the Confederates continue on largely as they had done before the war in pointing out that the Founders were not especially critical of slavery and, in fact, were far more often enthusiastic boosters for the process. The diversity of Confederate rhetoric on the point of whether they are doing a revolution against or continuation of the old order is something I've addressed . But that's not quite your question here, so let's dig in.
Second, taken as a whole, your interpretation misses something fundamental: the failure to continue compromising indefinitely is what created the “irrepressible conflict”.
Wonder why I’m surprised then. Maybe it’s that the Francophone tradition has leaked out into popular historical writing (and I hence see it a lot in Greek popular history); I just haven’t bumped into it in English-language popular history.
We may do still worse. The Constitution granted enslaving a special status above that of other rights. If an enslaved person fled to a free jurisdiction, then whether or not the jurisdiction returned them previously depended mostly on the jurisdiction and situation. With the Fugitive Slave Clause (distinct from the later act of 1850), the Founders rendered slavery extraterritorial and created a constitutional obligation for fugitive enslaved people to be returned to slavery. No state emancipation law could apply to an enslaved person from elsewhere, but enslavers from elsewhere could instead carry their enslaving law with them to seize people from freedom.
That seems relatively straightforward: no enslaving, but if an enslaved person escapes to the territory they must be returned to their enslaver. It doesn't hold up on closer examination, both of the facts on the ground and of the rest of the document. The ordinance was not submitted with Article 6. It got tacked on as an amendment. The reasons for doing so are murky now, because records of the relevant debate don't seem to have survived. Thanks, guys. That's odd, but what's odder still is that elsewhere the ordinance refers to "free male inhabitants", which necessitates that there also be unfree male inhabitants. The law recognizes slavery as extant at least in potential in the same jurisdictions where it is prohibited. That the text was not reconciled with its final section is not a reassuring measure of the seriousness with which the Confederation Congress took the cause of human freedom.