In short, by 1961, when Tiffany's was released, the Hay's Code was no longer taken seriously. Remember that the Code – MPAA Production Code, to use its proper name – was a set of guidelines for self\-censorship mutually agreed upon by the major Hollywood studios (and followed of necessity by the minors as well). It was never law; in fact, its whole purpose was to preempt centralized federal censorship in the U.S. When the studios decided to stop following those guidelines, well, there was no particular repercussion.
Fascinating. Was the adoption of the X rating where a lot of porn films eventually got the XXX moniker from? Assuming if X was steamy, a triple X must be wild, right?
there was also this 1952 SCOTUS decision that said films could be art, so censorship had it's limits overruled the 1915 decision that said they are not art since they have a primarily financial motive (also had to do with incorporation of 1st amendment against the states, but mainly reversing on the art question):
So why did they do so? Basically, large shifts in American society and social mores between the 1930s and the 1950s. This means on the one hand a weakening of conservative forces like the (Catholic) National League of Decency, which was instrumental in getting the Code passed in the first place, and on the other hand, a greater tolerance towards, and of course interest in, adult subject matter being explored in the cinemas. One might also add the economic pinch that studios were feeling in the wake of the U.S. vs. Paramount decision in 1948 (which stripped them of their exhibition business) and the ruinous competition that the television proved in the postwar suburbanizing world. They were willing to try anything.
>"It cannot be put out of view that the exhibition of moving pictures is a business pure and simple, originated and conducted for profit, like other spectacles, not to be regarded, nor intended to be regarded by the Ohio constitution, we think, as part of the press of the country or as organs of public opinion."[7].
Therefore, I'd argue it wasn't exactly the Hays Code being abandoned that allowed it, but rather the MPAA Production Code being introduced, which allowed producers of porn to get it into theaters when they'd probably have had trouble prior. Having an official MPAA Rating (even if it was self-rated) helped a lot in that regard. It also helps that society in general was somewhat receptive to porn at that time, likely because a lot of people saw it as novel. Some of the more popular movies (Deep Throat and Debbie Does Dallas in particular) generated legitimate buzz and did very well at the box office by porn standards. (There's a reason that, to this day, you still see people using variations of "Debbie Does Dallas" for porns and the term Deep Throat has taken on its own meaning, very much due to the film.) I'd argue if the decline of the Hays Code was responsible, we would have started seeing porn before 1968, again as OP notes, the Hays Code had long since been dead by 1968.
So, the point is, I feel like your question is "Was the Golden Age of Porn triggered by the Hays Code being abandoned?" The first thing to note is the Hays Code was officially abandoned in 1968 (though, as OP mentions, it was effectively dead long before that.) But 1968 is when they dropped any pretense of it still being followed. Andy Warhol's Blue Movie came out in 1969. It sure looks like there's a connection, doesn't it? Let's look deeper.