In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
I get it. Trump was and is a bastard. He's a monster. But the idea that the CIA is some noble organization with integrity to protect? No. There's no heroes in a story between that abhorrent organization and that fascist ex-President.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Correlational and standard regression analysis confirmed that for this sample scores on authoritarianism and religious fundamentalism were positively correlated, with scores on authoritarianism significantly related to those on ethnic and racial prejudice, and punitiveness.
Because he can’t fire them. If Fauci had resigned in protest…how much do you think trump would care?
vmPFC patients reported significantly higher authoritarianism and religious fundamentalism than the other groups. The degrees of authoritarianism and religious fundamentalism in the vmPFC group were significantly higher than normative values, as well; by contrast, the comparison groups did not differ from normative values. Moreover, vmPFC patients reported increased specific religious beliefs after brain injury.
I don’t believe that. I don’t think Trump would give a shit. This is the guy that loves firing people after all.
Scores on both Religious Fundamentalism and Religious Quest scales also were correlated strongly with right-wing authoritarianism and the Christian Orthodoxy scale, although orthodoxy itself tended not to be correlated with prejudice. Apparently, religious fundamentalism and nonquesting are linked with authoritarianism and prejudice toward a wide variety of minority groups.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.