Hello and welcome to this /r/AskHistorians META thread As with any thread about the rules and standards, I know some people will be here to express frustration at never seeing any answered questions. Some questions do get one, some don't, but it often takes patience, and we do a lot of work to try and improve the ways to consume content on the subreddit. Our newest is This is a once-per-week mass-mailer we send out with highlights of content from the past week. Check out the linked thread for more info., or...
Actually there's multiple! You might enjoy checking our r/history or r/askhistory. Everyone likes different things in different ways. Some of us prefer quality over quantity, others prefer more rambling discussion. its our niches that make us great.
Reason 3: Other accessibility issues. There are lots of government records and church records and organization records that exist, that you can get access to, but you have to do it in person because they aren't digitized. If you want to analyze a ton of English manorial rolls you'll have to go and look at them in person. There are tons of things that need to be digitized but there isn't any money to do it so these sources sit, available, in boxes, untouched.
Unfortunately true. We track a lot of stats, and in the past when the Admins have played with the sorting algorithms - how quickly things rise, how quickly they fall, etc. - it is both fascinating, and horrifying, to see how it can impact the answer rate. Some years back they made a big change and the rate dropped nearly 10 points the next month, although thankfully they did further tweaks which improved things (we weren't the only sub impacted, basically all text-submission based subs hated it, IIRC). Still though, it was a really stark illustration of the impact of seemingly little things. More broadly, content consumption is always something we need to find ways to improve here due to how the feed works even when it is 'good'. We're hoping the Newsletter is making a difference there though!