Along with your security deposit return, the landlord is required to provide an itemized list of deductions. I would ask for that if you don't have it.
apply the security deposit for delinquent rent; current rent; utility charges; damage/maintenance charge (damages beyond.
be applied to: (1) delinquent rent; (2) current rent; (3) utility charges; (4) damage/maintenance charge; (5) late charges; (6).
manner constitute a waiver of the Landlord’s rights in the event of the Tenant’s failure to make rental payments as herein.
demand the rent when due shall not constitute a waiver by the Landlord. Tenant by signing this Lease, knowingly and.
Lease and by law. The Tenant agrees the deposit is not an advance payment of rent and does not relieve the obligation to pay.
17.4 The Landlord agrees to return to the Tenant the security deposit, or whatever part has not been applied in payment of any.
17.1 The Tenant agrees to deposit with the Landlord the sum of $945.00 as security for his or her faithful performance under the.
3.1 The Tenant agrees to pay as rent for the Premises the total sum of $11,340.00 dollars at the rate of $945.00 (total monthly.
3.7 Tenant agrees if an eviction proceeding is initiated, to pay an eviction filing charge of $400.00 in addition to any amount then.
3.6 The Tenant agrees further that acceptance and/or refusal by the Landlord of the rent payment after the due date shall in no.
17.3 The Tenant agrees to provide the Landlord, in writing, a forwarding address upon vacating the Premises.
3.5 Tenant is responsible for identifying the premises for which the payment is to be applied. Landlord will not be responsible.
possession of the Premises to the Landlord, whichever is last to occur. Any deductions from the security deposit shall be.
I assumed they would keep the security deposit due to the 60 day notice requirement being under the security deposit section.
17.5 All the following conditions must be fulfilled before the return of the security deposit to the Tenant. (1) Tenant has occupied the.
premises for the full term of this lease. (2) Written notice is given to Landlord, at least sixty (60) days prior to vacating the.
Tenant obligations under the Lease, within thirty (30) days after the expiration or any renewal of the Lease and delivery of.
Tenant has given sixty (60) days written notice of intent to vacate, Tenant has been cooperative by showing the property to.
Upon vacating, the Tenant shall surrender the premises back to the Landlord in the same condition as the premises was.
returned to Landlord the day the premises are vacated and rent will be charged until we receive the keys in our office. (5).
If there's nothing in the lease about automatic renewal and the 60 day notice term doesn't state the penalty for failure to give 60 days notice then your lease ended April 14th and you only owed rent through that date. By law you are owed your security deposit minus deductions for damages and owed past rent. Even if you gave inadequate notice that wouldn't result in forfeiture of your deposit. And since your lease was over 6 months you are owed interest on the deposit at a rate of 5% per year.
occasioned by the tenancy, including negligence. Tenant specifically acknowledges that a reasonable amount for carpet.