The first thing you've pointed out correctly already in your question is that the 'Moors' feature extensively in Republican propaganda, and that its discriminatory undertone is contrary to the internationalism and progressism of its supposedly leftist foundations. Their presence therein has a longer history than the military uprising that started in 1936.
The military uprising of July 1936 then once again featured the 'foreign' Regulares, again under the leadership of Franco in a central role. During the Defence of Madrid, the CNT, UGT, PSOE, and especially PCE were key players in the organising of militia units to hold off the Nationalists before loyal Republican Army formations could push them back. These political organisations - most of which still had extremely bitter memories to 1934 - organised nearly 20 battalions of militiamen, largely through the famous Fifth Regiment (not the same as the Fifth Brigade; this referred to the International Brigade red.). These militias initially had neither military nor political discipline, but fought extremely tenaciously against Nationalist columns bearing down on the city, including Regulares on the Northern frontage near the city. Throughout late 1936 and early 1937 these troops would continue defending the city, making the Battle for Madrid a centrepiece of the Civil War in general. The fact that the Moors fought the same organisations in 1936 as they did two yeas before is of great significance, and the fact that they did so most ruthlessly and bravely gave them an interesting mixed reputation. On the one hand they were enemy shock troops of commendable bravery (nearly equivalent to the IB troops) as well as an oppressed people, on the other hand they were ruthless in their treatment of prisoners and viewed as defilers of Spain's last Christian vestiges.
That is a good sumary. On a sidenote I think it is important to add, that the government during the rebellion in Asturias was formed by the right wing coaliton. If your are looking for some ilustration for your thesis you might check the digitized part of the Spanish National Library. They have some collections on the battle of Madrid, including pictures of legionnaires and moroccan regulares.