No N12, no termination. It's as simple as that. If you vacate without an N12 in hand, you'll have a hard time getting compensation for it - the Board might construe it as a mutual agreement to end your tenancy (equivalent to an N11), instead.
Hi there. Can I ask you— I was just recently told to leave for the same situation as OP. Unfortunately I did not know anything about N12 form — it was all through email communication where he insisted many times his daughter was moving in (I even offered to increase rent). 10 days after I moved out he relisted for $600 higher rent. Now I am learning all about N12 and the compensation I was entitled to but never received — do you think the emailed written confirmations from him will hold up in court?
That would require a particularly thick-headed mediator, however. It's pretty clear from how you tell it that you made an error out of ignorance, and believed that your landlord's notice was adequate. Since the substance of the notice does line up with one of the few reasons a landlord can end a tenancy, that interpretation might even have some legs to it, and if it does, then your landlord has absolutely acted in bad faith in listing the unit for rent again.
This clears it up. He's definitely banking on me rushing out and moving without a formal issuance. He wouldn't have worded it like that it if he didn't.
Forms N4 through N8 - various for-cause landlord-initiated terminations, including nonpayment of rent, damage and overcrowding, the termination of employer-provided housing, and so on;.
Thank you so much I’ve reached out to some paralegals.. hoping for the best. I wish I had simply just googled “landlord is selling” and would’ve avoided a lot of issues I was just too focused/stressed about finding another place. Thanks again for your info!
I am fine with 60 days and the notice, I actually think it may have been better because it would be binding, but I think he's doing this to avoid compensation and to force me to "mutually leave".