This thread is trending high right now and getting a lot of attention, but it is important to remember those upvotes represent interest in the question itself, and . The mission of /r/AskHistorians is to provide users with in-depth and comprehensive responses, and our are intended to facilitate that purpose. We remove comments which don't follow them for reasons including unfounded speculation, shallowness, and of course, inaccuracy. Making comments asking about the removed comments simply compounds this issue. So please, before you try your hand at posting, check out the , as we don't want to have to warn you further.
This answer could be different and much more complete, however, if we are focusing not only on farmers, but also on the wider population of the American countryside, which includes people in industries associated with agriculture and extractive activities (timber, coal mining, etc), as well as economies increasingly centered around services, also in the context of deindustrialization, but with still a strong rural cultural identity and some might say "agrarian roots". There is a strong academic discussion going on currently on the spread of right-wing populism in rural areas in the last years (not restricted to farmers), especially after the 2016 US election, but I do not know if I can expand on it, since this sub does not allow discussion of current events. So I will just leave some of the references with the others for you below, if you are interested. Hope this helped!
This is somewhat simplistic, but agrarian populism in a peasant context very often first and foremost has meant "land reform" (something that Eric Wolf, for instance, discusses several time in Peasant Wars in the Twentieth Century), whereas for yeoman farmers in the 19th and 20th century a lot of what they agitate for is better access to markets and capital (the Grangers wanted rural mail delivery and cheaper freight on trains; Bryan wanted "cheap money" through silver which he thought would open up capital for farmers; the farmers in the New Deal wanted loans and price guarantees; in the 80's farm crisis the farmers wanted credit as you mention).
Magdoff, F., J.B. Foster, and F.H. Buttel (eds) (2000) Hungry for Profit: The Agribusiness Threat to Farmers, Food, and the Environment. New York, NY: Monthly Review Press.
Farmers were a mainstay of FDR's New Deal, which included massive government action to support farmers financially and to improve agricultural infrastructure, in the spirit of, if not entirely along the lines advocated by, the Populist Party.
. In general, I think it obscures more than it illuminates to call American yeoman farmers "peasants" when freehold farming was the dominant form of rural agricultural production.
So when did this all change? Like so much of American politics, in the 1960s, with the Civil Rights movement. The Civil Rights movement kicked off what political scientists call a realignment of the parties and their coalitions. The reason is that the Democratic Party became the party of civil rights for black Americans. Before this time, a lot of farmers were Democrats, as part of the New Deal coalition, and a lot of these farmers were Southerners. The national party's backing of civil rights alienated many white Southerners, including farmers. Race, which had always been important but usually not in determining elections, became electorally explosive. Where people stood on race would come to be an important part of where you stood, and who you stood with, in politics overall. This is the origin of what we today often euphemistically call "cultural issues.".
Throughout the twentieth century, in the US and in many other countries, agriculture and livestock raising became much more technified and industrial, with use of Green Revolution technologies (and later biotechnologies), requiring farmers to have more and more capital each season merely to get by in increasingly competitive industries. Besides the competition among them and the transformation of "family farmers", the food commodity chains as a whole became increasingly corporate-owned and oligopolized, from the industry of inputs and machinery, to trading, transport and retail, strangling smaller farmers from all sides of the value chain. Food production also became concentrated in a few key commodities, used as flexible ingredients for a variety of processed foods (as well as fuel, industrial use, etc): corn, wheat, soybean, and animal meat (which exploded in the past decades and required more and more grain and oilseeds for animal feed), and there was an increased division of labor and global trade of food, with much of American produce becoming imported from abroad.
And that brings us to today. Farmers are today a very small group, but they are generally heavily rural, and rural Americans are culturally identified with the party that opposes most of the things the Populist, Progressive, and Socialist parties stood for. This identification was the outcome of the civil rights realignment, which raised the salience of race as an issue and made possible its exploitation to divide Americans along cultural lines.
In the years following civil rights, a new politics would emerge, midwifed by people like Nixon and Reagan, which divided Americans along cultural lines. Were you on the side of the forces that were upsetting traditional American life? The dope-smoking, free-love hippies? The frightening and ungrateful Black Panthers? The student radicals disrespecting the troops and the flag? Did you support black advancement, even if it meant affirmative action? Did you support women's liberation? New sexual mores? Divorce? Abortion? All these new "cultural" questions served to displace the economic dimension of political competition which had defined the Populist era. Now, farmers found themselves on the opposite side of these questions from those who supported left policies.