EDIT for sources: Okay, now that I'm awake, caffeinated, and questions have been answered, here's a couple good sources on Inca infrastructure:
In another comment below, I mentioned a few good baseline resources to tackle Andean studies in general, and the Incas in particular. There's plenty more if you have particular questions!
A hurangacamayoc would almost certainly be either the descendant of a former ruler of a people incorporated into Tahuantinsuyu, or possibly an Inca brought in to rule if the previous nobility had proven unreliable. A master of a thousand households would certainly have an education at Cuzco before returning to rule his province. He would have both local women and Chosen Women given to him by the Empire. He would be expected to obey all commands from his superiors, and in exchange he could expect a life of privilege and relative comfort. In times of war, if his people were allowed to pay their tax labour quota in military service —some tribes were forbidden to do so, and others paid their taxes exclusively in this way, as well as many degrees in between— a hurangacamayoc could expect to become a sinchi, a war chief, leading his people in the Imperial army as something like a regimental commander. In war or peace, he reported to a hunocamayoc, a master of ten thousand taxpaying families.
However! There's a whole host of exceptions to this, especially as it pertains to more prestigious goods. Spondylus shell from the Ecuadorian coast was highly prized for millennia in the central Andes, for artisan beadwork, and ritual offerings and fertility rites. In this case, the Incas sought to dominate trade as directly as possible. The massive administrative/artisan center of Cabeza de Vaca in Tumbes (near the modern Ecuadorian border) was apparently the node for Ecuadorian trade of Spondylus to enter the empire. Fieldwork there found massive workshops, with shells in all stages of production. They also made numerous entries - diplomatic and military - into the Ecuadorian coast, with limited success. They ended up in a complicated series of trade and marriage relationships with Manteño people of the coast, in an effort to bring this coast to heel; but it was really an accommodation on these coastal peoples' part more than any measure of direct control that we see elsewhere in the empire.
Rules of the road? Tambos are spaced a day's walk apart, so travel from one to the other each day, staying at state expense each night with the tampu-keeper recording who you are, what your business is, and which way on the road you are going. Again, all of this can be audited later. Taxpayers really were not allowed to wander around. Also? If two parties of equal rank meet going in opposite directions on the road, the party coming from Cuzco is presumed to be on the more important business. The other party should stand aside and let them pass.
Seconded! D’Altroy has done good work on provincial Inca power, getting outside of the capital and heartland (a conceit many other Inca scholars had for some time). I would also mention Sonia Alconini’s work in Bolivia as another great perspective on the Incas outside their homeland.