In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
I know, right? And there's audio and video of him admitting to these things because he figures he can just get away with it like always. So far, he's not wrong.
Seditious conspiracy, inciting a riot, conspiracy to obstruct a government proceeding, interfering with the peaceful transfer of an election, conspiring an illegal false electors scheme, intimidating and threatening an election official, conspiracy to commit election fraud, tampering with a witness, involuntary manslaughter Babbit, sexual assault, tax fraud with Mazars, charity fraud, fraudulent asset valuations, insurance fraud, hatch act violations, emoluments clause violations, conspiring with a foreign gov, threatening elected officials, destroying national archive documents, withholding possession of sensitive materials, conspiracy to capture & conceal stolen government property, countless obstruction of justice indictments, conspiracy to obstruct justice, sued by DOJ for refusing to rent to black people, indicted for bribery in 1996, criminal conspiracy against the United States of America, hush money payment scheme charges, threatening federal gov employees, campaign law violations, Leticia James financial fraud lawsuit, Georgia AG election interference lawsuit, border wall donation fraud scheme, DOJ pending investigation for all of Trumps criminal career under RICO violations related to the already convicted Trump organizations racketeering and corruption activities, Jan 6 house select committee investigation into inciting an insurrection against the Federal government of the United States of America.......etcetera etcetera.
Why does he always have to be talked about? I thought this conversation would be over by now but he still gets almost 80% coverage in news articles. It feeds his ego. I'm so over it.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Trump deserves to die in prison but will never serve a single day because the Americans decided that for national security purposes people elected president are no longer subject to US Federal code and are currently reaching to re-empower Donald Trump under executive leadership and commander of the armed forces. Think about that for a second.