I spent 5 years in the 80s on a NATO base in Germany. We trained extremely hard because we thought we were facing a superpower military that could potentially destroy us in battle (overwhelming force, numbers, ect). Looking back now I realize that we had absolutely nothing to worry about. The Russians were and are a paper military.
The only problem is probably some snowball effect -- you cull enough of the "weak", suddenly some industries start collapsing (which tends to have the domino effect) because, believe it or not, not everyone can be an IT-specialist or a well paid Kremlin troll or a hacker on their payroll, or a financier or a bank CEO or some such -- foods and goods need to be harvested and produced by someone, and someone needs to transport it the shelves consumed by the elite etc. It's regular folks that feed the nation, by and large, like those Putin conscripts from; there's totally a critical interdependence between classes in a society, for better or worse.
No. In the years from 1943 to 1983 we went from zero nuclear weapons to ca. 70,000; jet engines and radar for military and commercial planes became standard, rockets and missiles went from barely existing to ICBMs and fire-and-forget missiles. We went from electronic tubes and a handful computers worldwide to ICs/microchips, enabling computers everywhere. We went from zero spaceflight to satellites (communications, weather, reconnaissance etc.) being taken for granted.
Conscription solves Russia's problem of keeping the war meat grinder well fed (their seemingly _only_ truly reliable weapon) and at the same time unties its hands to do nearly what it wants with those those conscripted citizens turned soldiers (when you're a soldier you have far fewer rights than other citizens, hello "military service", a perk of being a male citizen in Russia), and the family being poor can't buy their son(s) off or amass any legal (or literal, for that matter) defence, also when state tells them they know not how their son died or where (so they can save on war expenses). Russia thus culls its weak while leaving more fortunate/smarter/richer/closer to Kremlin to continue insulate and support the state where the top can keep the cash flow coming in. I mean what would a King do without his lords with fancy titles recruiting or enslaving peasants into a system where said lords levy everyone and collect taxes to send wealth upwards the pyramid, ending up at the Kings treasury? The King can't do these things alone.
Undoubtedly they would have been best to have reviewed things immediately after the fall, mothballed everything and everyone except a (relatively) small cadre which were well funded (relatively speaking) and trained and built back up from there. Instead everything got neglected and lots were ruined (both material and skills). That however would have required a "plan" and there was little long term planning during the fall.