When Sālote Tupou III ascended to the throne of Tonga at eighteen years old and pregnant, she immediately had to contend with the legacy of a predecessor who was little more than a figurehead, a government packed with ministers whose families had literally rioted in the streets when her father married her mother instead of their dynastic ally, major financial problems for both her family and her nation, and the dangerous dance to keep Tonga as free of British imperialist intervention as possible—all while raising an infant son. Oh, and did I mention the global pandemic that wiped out around eight percent of the Tongan population a month after she was crowned?
Basically that. Basically just that we can do stuff with them and not have to pay you or ask your permission each time!
Political intrigue and animosity sprang out of sprawling dynasty rivalries. An aristocratic individual’s rank was calculated using their maternal and paternal families, and it was not necessarily static throughout one’s life. It was a semi-scandal when Sālote’s father chose a woman of lower (but still noble, of course) rank as his wife, but it was also a shrewd political decision. The rival candidate’s family controlled much of the government administration, and clearly had designs on strenhening their own political power at the expense of his family’s.
But the dead do not bury themselves. Elaborate burials like that of the Señor de Sipan, especially those associated with public architecture, can tell us much about what values had currency in a society and what messages elites hoped to communicate through public ritual. These burials, and the memory of them, can tell us much more about who someone was to those around them than who they were themselves. Hear I present two narratives of who the Señor de Sipan was and is to those who have encountered his burial.
Like so many other individuals whose languages have perished under colonialism and whose story archaeology now tells, we know more about who the Señor de Sipan was in death than in life. It would have thus be inappropriate to attempt a traditional briography in the same way that our other Snoos have received. We know that the Lord of Sipan was ruler of a Moche kingdom in northern Peru. We know that he was buried around 680 AD and died at 35-45 years old. We know that his burial is the most lavish and intact of any that have been identified in all the Moche region; I could go into all 450 objects in the chamber, but that has been done better . We know the burial was part of the final phase of the huaca pyramid's construction. This was shortly before a period of substantial upheaval in Moche society, when centers like Sipan were either abandoned or radically remodeled. And that's about it.
Unlike European practices of succession that focused on the primacy of “legitimate” birth, the Ethiopian imperial and royal families permitted the inheritance of any child of the ruler who was named successor. Menelik himself was most likely the son of a servant woman, and his daughter Zewditu (1876-1930) was the result of a relationship with a noblewoman outside of marriage – but because they were officially recognized, at least eventually, they were considered of equal birth to any child theoretically born of a ruler and his queen consort. As a result, Zewditu was married to Yohannes’s son and crown prince, Araya Selassie Yohannes, in 1886 as part of the attempt to deal with their fathers’ conflict. Araya died of smallpox two years later, leaving her a twelve-year-old widow, and she returned to her father’s court.
Hello everyone! We're rolling out the final group of our newest selection of historical Snoos and their Snoographies today. Check out previous installment: , , , , , and , and as always, a shoutout to our wonderful artist, /u/akau.