Please note that this isn't true. All the other countries you listed tried very hard to import western weaponry and know-how. They might not have been as eager and total as Japan, but they did definitely do it.
Interesting! My understanding was that this is usually done in the opposite way: state-owned enterprises that make money get privatised, while privately-owned enterprises that make a loss but whose work absolutely needs getting done get taken care of by the State, or at least bailed out or subsidized.
Mosk, Carl. “Japan, Industrialization and Economic Growth”. EH.Net Encyclopedia, edited by Robert Whaples. January 18, 2004. URL.
One extra question for the road: how does the Sino-spheric general "Imperial Bureaucracy" model compare to that which Western (both European and Islamic) countries inherited from the Roman/Byzantine, Hellenic, and Persian/Mesopotamian/Levantine world? Education systems, civil servant exams, approaches to rights and the rule of law, intensity and effectiveness of government regulation and policing, the populace's own self-policing, self-coordination, and self-censorship, the ability to mobilize troops and effectively ensure internal and external peace, the relationship to banking systems and the ability to finance large projects while mitigating overall risk...
Saito, Osamu. 2010. “An Industrious Revolution in an East Asian Market Economy? Tokugawa Japan and Implications for the Great Divergence.” Australian Economic History Review 50 (3).
Ono, Kenichi, 2006 The Economic Development of Japan: The Path Traveled by Japan as a Developing Country,  GRIPS Economic Development Forum. Available online at.
I'd also be interested in the Indian/Indo-China/Oceania continuum, and the institutional and trade climate of polities like the Majapahit, Angkor, Java, and Pagan Burma. My understanding is that those empires, particularly Majapahit, were sustained on trade rather than violent coertion. Is that correct? How did that affect how people related to the State? How did it affect these countries' current situation?