Russia will just cut off oil to any nation participating in this illegal scam. From their perspective it's a breach of existing contracts. They are 100% correct.
Its not about the actual military strenh of EU, they had soft diplomatic power over other nations without having a military since WW2 largely due to their status as powerful nations having strong leaders and a modern wealthy society.
putin can't stop selling. oil wells are very unlike most other things in that you really can't just stop extraction - if you do, it's incredibly costly to get things running up again. and oil is expensive to store around. so russia has to sell at capped prices if that's all they can get, cuz making a lil profit is far better than losing a ton of money.
yeah he will want to sell to others, but china and india both have extracted a large discount from russia and this price cap will give them even more leverage going forward. remember, both would absolutely love to pay less for oil, and can make a nice excuse about 'well we WANT to give you more money vladmir, but see we have to buy our own insurance now and our own tankers, so you know... higher costs means lower prices.'.
All that soft power and diplomatic strenh has shattered due to their perceived weakness of EU as it was unable to combat Russia on its own and dragged other nations to dictate politics without understanding the what was going in those nations at that time.
Yeah. They just sell the oil to China because China is such a nice country and will give them the money they want and not just 50$ because the spare them from loosing their image by selling it to the EU. Also how will they transport the oil? Last time I checked you need a pipeline or special ship. Russia has one pipeline into China and that is not connected to the western pipeline and oil deposit. So they would need to transport it by ship which is very hard in winter since Russia can't use the Baltic or black sea Ports. So they could use other countries pipelines and ports but that would increase the price drastically because they would need to load and unload it onto ships at least twice and pay the other countries. That would make the oil more expensive than any fracking oil.