Similarly, was "Immigrants / We get the job done" (Yorktown) just a modern political insert, or was there also a distinct attitude/stereotype surrounding immigrants in general at that point?
Thank you! That answers nearly everything. I do have one follow-up, if you'd be kind enough to answer it. In your answer, you mention that whether or not Hamilton intended to fire had deep political consequences. I am curious about those: socially and/or culturally. Would it be cowardly to intentionally miss or not fire? What are the political consequences you allude to?
Federalists were soon aghast at the secondary activities of the company as a bank - it actually did ok on the water front, although didn't really solve New York City's problems - and screamed betrayal, but even Hamilton borrowed money from it and it was quite successful, with the charges against Burr being more of the campaign variety and frustration that he'd found a way around the Federalist dominated banking system for the smaller merchant class than anything else, which was also useful politically in the sense of helping to define Federalists as only being interested in the wealthy.
Thank you so much! So an accelerated course for Hamilton may have been geared towards cramming in more classes / meeting more people / making more and deeper connections, rather than speeding towards a graduation?
Hamilton refers to an altercation with the bursar of King's College over an accelerated course - would this have been out of a desire to minimise educational costs, or was Hamilton eager to graduate for other reasons? How economically feasible would it have been for Hamilton (or anyone else) to attend a college/university? (Alternatively, if it was actually fairly feasible, when did American universities become so eye-wateringly expensive?).
The Water Company itself or something like it was genuinely needed; local utility development in New York City was terrible, and it was widely believed that things like the Yellow Fever epidemics that had decimated Philadelphia repeatedly (it routinely cleared out during the summer; John Adams conducted a lot of his administration by letter back home in Massachusetts, where he was happier anyway) were caused by bad water.
2. Do we have a record of other figures Hamilton sought out as collaborators beyond James Madison and John Jay (and potentially Burr)?
In the bridge to "Non-Stop," Hamilton approaches Burr about helping him write what would become known as The Federalist Papers. A few questions based on this exchange:
But even if the magical rewrite of II ended up being perfect, off the top of my head two of the really problematic things I'd note from Act I, though, are that the setup of the Burr-Hamilton rivalry as one stemming from jealousy from the get-go is a problem - it was almost completely political, not personal, and the two even were at a dinner event together a night or two before the duel - and that it also ignores Hamilton's role in the Newburgh Conspiracy.
The story behind this is obscure and it's been pretty distorted in the telling that you got, but it's interesting and relates both the time frame that Hamilton entirely skips - the 4 year period prior to the duel - as well as the political environment right before it happened.
If LMM had written Hamilton in the 1990s, I'd be a lot more sympathetic to this argument - since indeed, that was what most popular history had to say, with the occasional academic article providing a somewhat different story.
Yeah, and I think it's also fair to remember that while writing the musical LMM wasn't who he was now; where today any historian in the world would be honored to take his call and consult, he was left to untangle large messes mostly by himself until very late in the game. And like you, even if he'd asked me, I'm not entirely sure what I'd have come up with.