And by tolerant I should say not "afforded equal rights" as much as "it's a weird religion but an ancient one so we'll mostly leave it alone"(ETA although I don't want to pretend that the destruction and trauma especially from the first Jewish War didn't happen). For instance given their monotheism I don't believe they were forced to make sacrifices to state cults, unlike Christians who were (because they were a weird new religion). But maybe I'm missing something?
When Paul began his ministry to the other nations (the idea of "gentiles" is actually a more modern idea; Paul used the term "ethne" or nations in his writings instead), he attempted to bring representatives of the other nations (i.e. gentiles) into God's Kingdom (Israel, specifically Jerusalem) to fulfill an old Jewish prophecy. This is not necessarily the place to get into the theological explanation of that, but essentially Paul viewed Jesus' crucifixion as a means of allowing non-Jews the space to be part of God's children alongside the Jewish people. Paul, being Jewish himself, viewed Jews as the first children of God but thought that Christ-following gentiles could be God's second children.
This idea of being second to the Jews did not sit well with Roman Christ-followers. Paul spent much of his ministry trying to explain this theological point and the letter to the Romans centers on the idea of trying to address the gap between the Roman Jews and the Roman Christ-followers in the city. In part because of this, Romans is the longest Pauline argument we have record of. Meanwhile, the Christ-following gentile writers who disagreed with Paul began developing the Christian canon and they viewed Jews as an afterthought or deliberately excluded them. Despite Paul, Jesus, and essentially every named character in the Gospels being Jewish, a distinctly anti-Jewish narrative arose and we are left with scenes like Matthew 27:24-25 where a Jewish crowd acts as a stand-in for all Jewish people in crying out "his blood be on us and on our children!".