I basically agree to your understanding, and I have to apologize in advance that to estimate the historical (especially pre-1500) population of whales in the North sea region as well as the frequency of their sight is beyond my ability.
Awesome! Nice flair btw. I am both a nerd and a metalhead, so I salute you twice. While you're here, was my concept of an Atlantic-based trader a fair one? Or were the river routes too important to ignore?
The closest evidence we have is from 13th century Norway, so it was written more than 2 centuries later than OP had allegedly lived (as well as the Christianization of Scandinavia) that we have some uncertainty about to what extent the lore of whales narrated in the text could date back further to the 10th century, the transition period from pre-Christian polytheism to Christianity.
Thank you very much! The bit about certain species chasing ships is actually kinda terrifying. Obviously they were very aware of whales from early on. Going to look up The King's Mirror now, it sounds interesting. hank you again.
The biggest trading place in the downstream of rivers around the North Sea in the Early Middle Ages was either London or Dorestad in now Netherlands (though the latter was clearly in decline in the end of the 9th century), but your cargo ship would have no difficulty in accessing both of them with piers for such ships. You might also be able to take a glance at the ship of fishermen catching the fish in the downstream as Ælfric's colloquy describe a little earlier than the quote above:
Ælfric's Colloquy, a Latin textbook for the monks written by Abbot of Eynsham about a thousand years ago in the midst of the Late Viking Age England, indeed mention the interesting passage on the fishing and possible commercial whaling:
Ælfric's text also presuppose that even the young English monks in the monastery probably had heard about many fishes and sea animals, including whales and dolphins.
These two accounts are all of the contemporary written evidence of whales and possible whaling in the Viking Age Northern seas. Norwegian and Icelandic lawbooks are often cited as evidence of drifted whales in the Viking Ages, but they were firstly written in the 12th century or further later (the manuscript is dated to the middle of the 13th century).
On the other hand, Norwegian Ohthere (usually rendered as Ottar in modern Norwegian)'s account on the coastal life of northernmost part of Norway is another 10th century evidence of whaling in the North Sea:
Fortunately, Ohthere, or more precisely, the scribe who dictated Ohthere's account, also used this ells to describe another sea mammals (just before the passage on the whale hunting, cited above).