This thread will be refreshed every 10,000 comments until 6 p.m. Eastern. At that time, the first polls close and this thread will be replaced by a results thread, which will itself be refreshed every 10,000 comments until the 2022 election has concluded in some meaningful sense. Please bear in mind that we may not know the outcome of the midterms for hours, or even days. For further reading on that subject, please see this NPR article: “”.
The Republican party platform in Texas alone, explicitly includes: claiming the 2020 presidential election was fraudulent, holding a referendum on secession next year, abolishing gay marriage, advocacy for an official state position that homosexuality is an "abnormal lifestyle choice", abolition of no-fault divorce, removing law school as a requirement for attorneys, abolishing all federal agencies, opposing all pandemic measures including contact tracing, declassifying carbon dioxide as a pollutant, supporting school faculty (state employees) delivering religious messaging, repeal of minimum wage laws, repeal of Dodd-Frank, repeal of Sarbanes-Oxley, abolishing the Endangered Species Act, and labeling evolution and climate change specifically as challengable scientific theories for the purposes of education. And that's just some of it.
I just want a country where I am free, my Hispanic wife is free, my muslim best friend is free, any black person is free, that trans girl I haven't met has all the rights she needs, that we welcome the immigrants that are the best part of our nation (people that sacrificed everything they know to have a chance at an opportunity here), that we start to empower the labor class, etc.
Yeah, I don't know guys. Kari Lake literally said the GOP primary was being stolen from her the night before the GOP primary which she ultimately won by almost five points. Shamelessly said "We outvoted the fraud" which is utterly nonsensical. I treat anything from her allies with skepticism. But we'll see tonight if this is different.
Hello r/politics! It is finally November 8th, 2022, the last day open to voting in this year’s midterm elections. If you have not yet voted, and are legally able to do so, we strongly encourage you to do your civic duty.