The 1970s, in pop music, is often seen these days as being most notable for being an era when a very big variety of different genres and styles came to the fore, rather than as being synonymous with disco; it's really only the 1978-1979 era where disco was all dominant. It was an era when you could have a genuine chart hit with proto-metal - 'Paranoid' by Black Sabbath was a genuine top 20 single here in Australia - or with country rock - The Eagles' 1975 Greatest Hits is still one of the biggest selling albums of all time. The era had the funk and soul of Stevie Wonder or Parliament Funkadelic, it had the progressive rock of Yes or Emerson, Lake And Palmer, it had the glam rock of Slade or T.Rex, it had the punk rock of the Ramones or the Sex Pistols, and it had the gentle explosion of singer-songwriters from Carole King to James Taylor to Warren Zevon. And plenty of 1960s acts kept having hits with a mildly updated version of what they did in the 1970s - The Rolling Stones, or Diana Ross or Bob Dylan. The decade also sees the first glimmerings of hip-hop on record - 1979's 'Rapper's Delight' by the Sugarhill Gang, of course - and of electronic dance music - Kraftwerk, for starters. And amongst all of this: disco.
What perhaps was unusual amongst new trends in the soul world was that disco just got bigger and bigger. Disco tunes were regularly at the top of the charts in 1976, though they shared the charts with plenty of other styles of music. The presence of a cash-in song like - a 1 in 1976 - was probably a clue that the disco fad was about to crash. By 1976 it was obvious that there were subgenres of disco, including East Coast funk, sophisto-soul, East Coast disco, the Miami sound, and West Coast disco. By this time, you'd think dance music was ready to move on from disco.
As to why disco faded from this height, in some ways it was inevitable. Times change, and styles of genres fade into the background as new ones replace them. More surprising than disco fading away was that it lasted so long. The Disco Demolition Night of July 12th 1979 - a promotion for a baseball game where you could come in cheap if you brought a disco record to be burnt, which quickly spiralled out of control - however, did crystallise the sheer level of frustration with disco that many white American males felt with disco, a very popular style of music that deliberately was not aimed at them; the Disco Demolition Night was a sort of proto-Gamergate.
Ohhh makes sense. Thank you for your quick reply. I just finished watching Liquid Sky and Downtown 81 and have been obsessed with the post-disco NYC and have so many questions.