Writing a book on everything from roman law to EU-law in 250 pages sounds like a really bad idea, and to a degree it is. The book doesn't nearly achieve the scope it's title and timeline implies. In fact, the vast majority of Europe and European law is ignored and never mentioned, and despite the title, a chapter is devoted to North America!
Interesting. My familiarity with legal history is very limited, so too earlier Ming history unfortunately. Of the three, I think Oidtmann's is the only one which even touches (somewhat) on the legal aspect of Qing rule in Tibet, revolving as it does around a radical intervention in terms of the ways in which lamas were selected, but my impression has been that it's more an institutional than a legal history.
Hello ! My mom is a costume designer and we both love historical costumes and I've been searching for books on that matter for a while without knowing what to choose. Anyone has suggestions?
‘Jotei’ no Nihonshi \[Japan’s History of “Female Rulers”\] is an interesting little book; the author, obviously taking up the question whether we should change the current laws and allow women to become Tenno again, traces the history of female rulership in Japan; he also includes Chinese and Korean sources (via the help of a translator), which is unusual, and doesn’t only restrict himself on the relation between women and the imperial throne. His approach is strictly periodical (ancient, classical, medieval, early modern, and modern period chapters) and not entirely devoid of theory.
2. A deconstruction of the concept of the 'Silk Road' as it applies to Eurasian history, emphasising not just that exchange was mostly local and regional, but also what implications that has for the way we should conceptualise Eurasian history;.
Ōtō Osamu 大藤修. Nihonjin no sei, myōji, namae: Jinmei ni kizamareta rekishi 日本人の姓・苗字・名前 : 人名に刻まれた歴史. Tokyo: Yoshikawa Kōbunkan, 2012.
That's very interesting, i recently read Jiang Yongling's The Mandate of Heaven and The Great Ming Code, which argues similar points in regards to the motivation and content of that code, to Ming legal philosophy, and to Zhu Yuanzhang's own convictions, also rejecting a similar "cynical" or "legal-rational" view.
4. A broader consideration of how you write an 'interconnected' history, where you acknowledge the explanatory power of larger global trends without erasing the agency of local actors.
I'm looking for good books (esp. from their approaches) which tackle pre-modern cultural practices such as hunting, or also relationship between religious sponsorship and rulership, and so on. I suppose, that take a more anthropological approach to history, ideally by connecting it to the political segment (i.e., rulers and rulership), although that's not a requirement.