Employment laws protect you from being punished by being transferred solely due to your status as a pregnant woman or new mother. If that's the only reason they're transferring you to something they know you wouldn't be able to do it's illegal federally under both fair-employment laws and the ADA. Until your child is 3 the law sees them as an extension of you. Keep detailed records. Fortunately, these are the kinds of cases the government will fight for you. When they win they'll also give you a settlement from you employer and it won't cost you anything. Oregon is very friendly to nursing mothers from what I've heard, so be sure to hold their feet to the fire on a private place to pump that isn't a bathroom. Good luck!
fail to make reasonable accommodations to known limitations of such employees unless the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on an entity's business operation.
Oh my gosh. Good for you for calling LNI. Speaking unofficially but as someone with more than casual knowledge of Washinon DSHS caregiver policy, I'd like to say it might ALSO be useful to contact Adult Protective Services yourself, pre-emptively, and discuss this with them. They're pretty neat people, and they'd likely be more concerned that one of the contracted agencies are systematically behaving in this manner. It would endanger a client more to have you dying on a floor... ugh... I want to scream...
You should report the ambulance policy to OSHA and you should contact your licensing board and confirm the exact policies your state has regarding provider medical emergencies and your own responsibility in that situation.
Oh I don’t doubt your abilities at all. I’m a mom of four daughters and worked till the end, but your situation is different. You need to protect you and your liability at this point. Being put in a position where you could potentially be harmed or a patient/client isn’t cool. Can’t say for certain if that covers them giving you options or accommodations. Doesn’t appear they actually are and to threaten you that way is alarming. You’re also an employee, correct? Not self employed, so liability falls on them as well. Now my mind is thinking more in the way of licensed professional so I’m not sure if you are actually licensed or what exactly you’re doing? 37 weeks pregnant is technically full term. Your doctor should be able to help, but whoever you’re working for is someone I’d never insure or want to do business with, period. Lol.
It is a federal OSHA requirement that employers ensure employees have unrestricted access to emergency medical care. If the employer is a secure or remote site that can impede ambulance access, employers are required to have an on-site emergency care plan and someone available on all shifts to provide emergency medical care.