As you've pointed out, the subsequent military dictatorship, the "Proceso de Reorganización Nacional" or National Reorganisation Process did enjoy of American support, yet never in the same overt degree as that enjoyed by the Brazilian 1964-1985 military junta (Reato, 2020). The reasons behind this state of affairs are, I believe, varied to say the least. Let's first assess the nature of the regimes which had been overthrown in both Chile and Brazil. When discussing the former, we're addressing the first democratically elected left-wing political in the region, Salvador Allende, whose platform posed, per the State Department and a number of intelligence reports, "an obstacle to American interests" (Collier, 1996). The latter example, Brazil, displays a number of similarities to the Chilean case. After all, intelligence reports label Joao Goulart as a reformist "seeking to minimise the influence of the private sector" in Brazilian public life (Braga et al, 2004). To the United States, these political agents represented either geopolitical or strategic, resource-driven setbacks to American interests in the region.
Greg Grandin. Empire's Workshop: Latin America, the United States, and the Rise of the New Imperialism. New York, NY: Owl Books, 2007.
In short, most cases of American intervention were either deemed preemptive or corrective by the perpetrators, and in the Argentine case, the nature of said interventionism broke the model, becoming instead a case of geopolitical opportunism.
Saul Landau. The Dangerous Doctrine: National Security and U.S. Foreign Policy. Boulder, CO: Westview Press, 1988.
Hi OP, I'm currently working on my undergraduate thesis, which is, essentially, a study revolving around the 1973-1976 period in Argentina and the role of paramilitary agencies such as the Triple A (Alianza Anticomunista Argentina) and their counterproductive role in the survival of Isabel Perón's government. Due to this, I can only really discuss the Argentine case in-depth, yet I can anecdotical mention that in the case of the 1968 Peruvian coup, it was clear for both the State Department and the CIA that a plot to oust president Fernando Belaúnde Terry (arguably a centre-right reformist) was in the making, yet they failed to diagnose that the coup would give way to "revolutionary" military rule for a 12 year period (Pease & Romero, 2013). That said, they do not seem to have played an active role in the coup.