Let's start with a consideration of the problems of doing literally as you suggest. There are in fact fairly clear and sensible reasons why an attempt to dig trenches that intersected with enemy trench systems would not have been practicable. The first is the impossibility of completing the work without being observed; one key characteristic of trench warfare was that it concentrated large numbers of men and guns into narrow areas where a considerable premium was placed on continuous observation. Men stood watch on trench parapets; high-quality optics – binoculars and periscopes - were available as aids. Balloons flew over trench systems to provide elevated, static observation points. And, of course, air forces on both sides patrolled the skies, and sophisticated systems of aerial photography and mapping were developed in the course of the war precisely with the intention of obtaining advance warning, wherever possible, of changes in enemy trench systems that might suggest the imminence of an attack.
Hi there. We have removed two comments in reply to your question that did not meet our standards for an answer - for starters, the longest of the two removed comments was six words long. Moderators removing comments is a common thing in this subreddit - we remove poorer quality comments because we want to encourage people to put more time into higher quality answers showing their depth of knowledge - it's AskHistorians, not AskRandomRedditors. So we removed those two replies to your thread because they did not sufficiently answer your question.
Finally, even in the highly unlikely event that an attacking trench actually did reach the enemy positions, the attackers would be placing themselves at a significant disadvantage in attempting to use it, in that it would provide only one very narrow focal point for entering into the enemy system, while that enemy would be able to focus a considerably larger force and weight of firepower on the debouching-point.
Thanks for the explanation. I am newly subbed and wondered why there were so many deleted posts. Thanks for the good, and probably mostly thankless work.
So, under live-and-let-live, artillery bombardments might be co-ordinated so that they took place at exactly the same time each day (giving men in the opposing trenches plenty of warning to take cover); machine gunners might appear to be laying down harassing fire while in fact firing deliberately high; trench raiders on both sides might pass each other in Nomansland and ignore each others' presence rather than attack.
Essentially, live-and-let-live was an acknowledgement that both sides possessed the potential to make life miserable-to-impossible for each other, if they chose, in the form of repeated trench raids, use of mortar attacks, random artillery bombardment and so on. On the other hand, it was also possible to create a more peaceful co-existence in which violence was, effectively, ritualised in such a way as to minimise casualties while, crucially, satisfying a high command ignorant of the exact details of local conditions that the units on the ground were still full of "offensive spirit" – and hence avoid unwelcome discipline.