I'm not sure where you live, but he could possibly get charged with medical neglect, especially because your brother has passed away due to said neglect. I'm very sorry for your loss.
I'm a dependency attorney. While what you've shared is really concerning, ultimately the legal standard requires there to be a current threat of risk/loss/injury to a current child. "He did x in the past" might well be considered as part of a case regarding the current children, but unless there's an immediate risk of loss or injury through abuse or neglect to the children he has right now, it would be hard to start a case and establish jurisdiction.
I can’t even imagine your pain. And I’m very sorry you’re carrying this burden. I don’t have an answer for you. But for your own mental health do what you can to hold him responsible. Talk to CPS to see if there is a way to do that. If not then maybe you can force a change on children’s rights. Please consider a therapist. You will have a lot of pain and possibly guilt that needs to addressed. None of this is your fault. But I’m frustrated the the doctors didn’t turn him in for neglect. Take care of yourself.
My understanding is, the doctor can do it if the life is IMMEDIATELY in danger, like, the child is going to die in the next 5 minutes, and it's a huge career risk for the doctor because most likely they're going to be sued (the parent obviously disagrees, so after the fact, they're going to be PISSED obviously), and if a judge disagrees about the severity, they could lose their license. At best, it's a MAJOR pain in the ass. If it's not quite so immediate (child will die within days) there are emergency court proceedings depending on the situation (an advocate be put in charge of the child, or if the parents disagree, one of them being chosen to provide care). From my understanding this is more common. If it's a case like OPs they have to go through the court which can take a while in a non-emergency case, depending how much each side fights.