For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
That would be shocking. He might be the first politician I'd believ when he said, "I must answer the call of the American people " They were chanting "two more years" at his victory party on Tuesday. The people in Florida want him to run for President. It would be stupid for him not to. How many times do you have things linenup for you this perfectly.
Frankly part of me is still thinking about Trump's post on his Twitter ripoff where he wrote and I will repeat it in the interest of informing people of this insanity, "after the Race, when votes were being stolen by the corrupt Election process in Broward County, and Ron was going down ten thousand votes a day, "along with now-senator Rick Scott, I sent in the FBI and the U.S. Attorneys, and the ballot theft immediately ended, just prior to them running out fo the votes necessary to win." Which can be spun as "he stopped the ballot fraud by Dems" yet at first glance sounds a lot like he interfered in the vote count with federal resources in 2018, or is lying about doing so to make it sound like DeSantis "owes" him.
Edit, or, in a thought that occurred to me second after I posted this, lying about abusing his authority to interfere in the 2018 Florida election to hurt DeSantis, since that was what, 30,000 votes in difference? And it would definitely undermine at least some of DeSantis' support if it turns out he wasn't in fact elected legally. (I say "some support" since it's the GOP, a very large portion of them won't care so long as the Democrats never win.).
It would tie into the entire ring of Roger Stone, the Miami Proud Boys, Seminole counties' Tax Collector scandal tied to Gaetz, the FPL donations and other companies suddenly flooding the 'Friends of DeSantis' PAC funds after he got Trumps recognition initially, etc.
Ah an Optimist. You still believe the party has a future. Trump and DeSantis are going to destroy eachother for the next few months. Trump will do all the destroying. DeSantis will win anyway because of the midterms. Then Trump will run 3rd party and Dems will win everything and probably go insane in the process. Thanks Trump.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !