This anxiety also extended to clothing that was merely revealing, such as silks that were so thin as to be translucent. Here's Seneca (the Elder, not his philosopher/dramatist/political advisor son), writing a couple generations after Spartacus:
As for the why these kinds of images are common, I would ask, are they really? Most depictions of the past are stuffy and sterile, perhaps precisely because Victorian morality was so scandalized by the erotic imagery that is so common in Roman art. I believe Spartacus is part of a more recent trend which tries to be less conservative about depicting sex in the ancient world in general, which is a good thing. In this case, however, the show was more beholden to modern tastes/what audiences want to see than historical accuracy. EDIT: It's also fair to point out that even if the over-the-top imagery of Spartacus is exceptional, Romans have long had an association with decadence in the general imagination. Much of this goes back to Edward Gibbon's late 18th century thesis on the "fall of Rome" as a result of moral decline. Gibbon himself was highly influenced by the kind of conservative Roman writers mentioned above, from Cato in the Republic to early Christian writers later on, who complained of extravagance and moral corruption. Images gathered from texts like Patronius' Satyricon, which present, in a very tongue-in-cheek manner, mind you, the absurdly extravagant practices of Roman dining and a keen emphasis on sex and the erotic have surely also contributed to this image.
Not entirely qualified to comment on this, but it’s also important to know that nudity in the Roman world was associated with heroically nude depictions in art. Romans were more willing to paint/sculpt nude women than the Greeks, but again, there is no evidence Roman women would ever be seen in public like this.
The short answer is no, public nudity from Roman women would not have been common, but also there was a lot of tension regarding what constituted proper behavior. Romans were a notoriously conservative society back in the old days and explicitly drew a distinction between themselves and what they saw as the more decadent practices of Greeks and other “eastern” (from the Roman point of view) cultures. Actually, Romans were constantly arguing about this kind of thing; it was clearly a source of social anxiety. Around the time A few generations before the events in this series would have taken place, the Senate introduced legislation to ban/reform the Bacchanalia, for example, which they perceived as a dangerous foreign rite capable of undermining traditional Roman mores (see Walsh 1996: ). (EDIT: I should have added that the mythical female followers of Bacchus were depicted in a kind of animal skin, often partially nude, and engaged in drunken, erotic revelry). Or you can read the writings of Cato, who expresses similar disdain for what he sees as loose morality around the same time.