Bottom line: On the tactical level, the French believed that the decisive component in a fight was firepower. To this end, there was great emphasis on co-ordinated movement of all available arms, but particularly, artillery. This was known as The Methodical Battle (La Bataille Conduite). The problem with this is that it required excellent communications for the commanders to co-ordinate subordinate units. It could, in theory, work, but the problems were that French commanders had lousy communications, relying mainly on messengers and telephone instead of radio (Or just driving themselves from HQ to HQ), and a lot of commanders refused to act without orders from above.
China was an absolute mess. It was constantly and intentionally exacerbated by individual Japanese military leaders, with no commands from the top. This shows the complete state of chaos within the Japanese military machine from the general (regimental commander) up. From the general down, iron discipline had been enforced with the express intention of fight or die, never surrender, do anything your commanders command, type indoctrination. That did not however seemingly apply to generals that would face little, if no, charges for hatching conspiracies to draw Japan into a war. Nor even charges of defeat, and therefore a call to suicide, after the war had ended. Moreover, it lacked any planning form the state department that inevitably precluded any type of reasonable peace with, or even a basic plan against, their adversaries. A military expressly designed against a total war, was brought into one against China. Moreover, the horrific casualties caused huge riots, which were placated with even more wild claims against China to justify such high casualties. The public however did not blame the military at the time, it did blame the state department because of the previous propaganda and expectations of a grand peace with China and Russia. So, the diplomats were left picking up after the military's dismal mess, all while being marginalized by public opinion and their own civilian government, with the inherent handicapping of the government by Prussian design. All of these led to the fatal flaws in military planning and Japanese Grand Strategy within the war. Or are at least are what I got out of these two books. Edward J. Drea- Japan's Imperial Army, It's Rise and Fall 1853-1945S. C. M. Paine- The Japanese Empire: Grand Strategy from the Meiji Restoration to the Pacific War.