Here on reddit I keep seeing people throwing shit to other countries like monkeys, that's what my reply was about. I've wrote US just as an example, the dots are in place as an example that basically EVERY country as done bad things in the past and this generalization is what racism, xenophobia and avery discrimination is fueled on.
Holy crap! What are the people on this thread thinking? Medical supplies are a humanitarian necessity. Withholding them, even to enemy soldiers, let alone to Russian civilians is as morally bankrupt as blowing up civilian infrastructure. Sell them drones-act if support for terror. Sell them lifesaving medicine-act of morality. Get your heads straight, people. Don’t become the same monster you are fighting.
Like bringing up the holocaust in a post about drugs sales, while I brough up the US, and everyone else because, guess what, they sells drugs to Russians too (Switzerland follow exactly the same EU sanctions) and is hypocritical to decontestualize an article just to spread hate on one nation while closing the eyes to the others... You understand?
Just say anything. Nothing you just said was relevant to anything I said. You just threw a complete straw man to avoid admitting that if you want to deny humanitarian products you are a POS. Did you think attempting to marginalize me by being snarky and throwing out ridiculous sarcastic things like Illuminati was brilliant on your part? Weak, bro.
Swiss banks profited from the Jews gold, Switzerland made some hard decision, you can say even some wrong one (keep in mind that it's easy to judge after the facts, much harder when you must take those decisions with a war at your doors), but using cherry picked events and facts decontestualized to spread hate is really wrong, even more if done without actually knowing what you are talking about.
No one is denying meds to anyone. But prices are sky high and one of the reason of that is Russia playing with energy supplies. Really, what do you (or they) think would happen once energy prices skyrocket? Once that Europe was forced to switch to other sources? Who was going to pay for the difference? Switzerland? UE? The Illuminati?