If you have a copy of the Bible handy, you can find a number of other works of apocalyptic literature. The second half of the book of Daniel is a fine example of a Jewish apocalyptic text. If you're interested, Isaiah, Ezekiel, Zechariah, and a few of the other prophetic books of the Old Testament were composed before the apocalyptic genre had fully developed, but these texts begin to show themes that could be called proto-apocalyptic. For more apocalypticism with a Christian flavor, see 1 Thessalonians 4:13 - 5:11 and 1 Corinthians 15. These are not stand alone texts, but they certainly reflect apocalyptic ideas and language. Matthew 24-25 is sometimes called the "Little Apocalypse;" it and similar passages in Mark 13 and Luke 21 have Jesus as the speaker, predicting war, famine, disease, and other suffering, the sun and moon going dark, and so forth before the coming of the Son of Man and the arrival of his kingdom.
Wow thank you! I think I have become interested in this recently because eschatology has become extremely popular recently in church discourse (though I think it has probably always been popular). In understanding apocalyptic texts, are there any resources that are helpful in establishing the literary context?
Happy to help! Eschatology tends to become popular during times of crisis and difficulty, so it's not surprising to see modem iterations cropping up recently. I was first introduced to some of the texts I mentioned many years ago through Apocalyptic Literature: A Reader, edited by Mitchell Reddish. The introductions and footnotes, as I recall, do a good job of contextualizing the sources. I can't really comment on how it compares to more recent scholarship, as I haven't really kept current with the field. There have been new translations published since the original edition of the Reddish book came out in 1990, and additional work on the Oxyrhynchus papyri continues to turn up material that wasn't available 30 years ago. But I think it still holds up as a valuable resource.