It's pretty clear that Percy, at least, remembered these bleak days with horror, and there's no doubt in my mind that he would have thought of it as traumatic. John Smith, another chronicler, gives a similarly bleak depiction, and though the two men were political rivals at the colony and afterward, the question here doesn't call for a disputation of their facts; instead, we should try to read their writing as a window into how they managed their trauma. I'd like to give a general Content Warning for some descriptions ahead, including violence against women and children, descriptions of torture, and other atrocities.
Content Warning ahead: there are descriptions of severe violence against women and children ahead, as well as graphic depictions of deaths. And although my answer will concentrate on the Starving Time, as you can see from above, the colonists at Jamestown were no strangers to death before or after it, either; the entire colonial experiment was replete with hardship at every step, it was just most concentrated during the winter of 1609-1610.
man. And the fat butcher not lying above six yards from him was found altogether untouched only by the.
was far another kind of carriage in this misery than amongst the passengers; for they that before had been boone companions in drinking and jollity in the time of their health and welfare, began now to desert one another in this calamity saying they would not hazard their lives for them, they should be infected by coming to help them in their cabins, and so, after they came to lie by it, would do little or nothing for them, but if they died let them die...
Disease and hunger certainly ravaged Jamestown. The fate of the venture was precarious. By 1609, colonists.
Only partially. The colony had been mismanaged for a long while before the Starving Time, for a huge and overlapping variety of reasons. Even if they were able to leave the fort to hunt, they would have been unlikely to find enough food to support themselves.