I guess they'll have to change the dictionary definition from "a state of armed conflict between different countries or different groups within a country.".
Another suppressive law is to make individuals classed as terrorists, not just organisations, so thousands of mostly Muslim people are forever either detained indefinitely or on bail indefinitely. Critics say Hindus have been caught out under these laws as well, however, the numbers do not reflect an even hand considering there are Proud Boy esq groups on the Hindu side. So there's a lot of people that could be caught under that law but, strangely, the numbers are mostly Muslim.
Silver is naturally antibacterial/anti microbial. It’s not like you can just chuck a hunk of silver in a cup and come back to purified water but a theoretical silver deposit in the banks of a river would tend to make it safer than without. The scale of that impact would be questionable though.
Indias relationship with Russia is complicated, like most international politics. India was a socialist nation for decades, a very poor socialist nation, the USSR always trying to help its fellow Marxist friends became a very important economic supporter of India and more importantly their main supplier of military weapons, which the remain to this day (can’t remember off the top of my head but something like 80% of Indias military is made up of Russian equipment), their entire military structure is dependent on Russian supplies. To make things more complicated, India was sort of snubbed by the west back in the day and the US tried to ally itself with Pakistan especially during the war on terror, Pakistan and India are mortal enemies so this didn’t help while at the same time Russia continued to be their best buddy.
Thanks for the actual science, that's cool to know. That does actually call to mind a research hospital I was in a few months ago, all the handrails were copper-y, which seemed odd at the time but makes sense if that's something they're working on.