In general, you should be highly sceptical of specific dialogue included by medieval chroniclers. At best you're usually dealing with an author who is writing something from memory that they likely experience years prior, meaning that best case scenario they have a good memory and what they recorded got the gist of what was said if not the exact wording. However, medieval chroniclers didn’t often confine themselves to what really happened, especially with regard to heroic speeches and dialogue, and in many cases, it is best to interpret exact wording as an invention of the chronicler unless you have strong evidence that suggests otherwise, e.g. multiple different authors reporting essentially the same thing.
Wow, I couldnt have asked for a better answer! Thanks so much, this definitely brings things into perspective. I'm going to look into the books you recommended pretty soon. Thanks again.
I wish I could provide more context for why Ibn al-Athir chose to give the King of Sicily a more central role in the formulating of the First Crusade than he actually had, but I couldn’t provide a satisfactory answer without doing a bunch of research that I sadly don’t have time for. I’m sure there’s an interesting story to dig out of there – particularly around what Muslim perceptions of the King of Sicily were, as well as how much Ibn al-Athir actually may have known about Christian political intrigue – but I can’t provide more than an indication that it probably exists!
This background is to point out that Ibn al-Athir was writing almost a century after the events he was describing from a city hundreds of miles away from Sicily, and in a different language from what King Roger would have been speaking. Best case scenario, Ibn al-Athir is working from another chronicle written by an eyewitness to Roger’s original speech, in which case you just have to hope that the initial author was accurate, that the scribe who translated it into Arabic knew what he was doing and both translated and transcribed it accurately, and that Ibn al-Athir chose to follow that source to the letter.