In my opinion, the notion of Luddendorff as a 'prodigy general' has far more to do with his linkage to v. Hindenburg, his role in the mythologizing of the Eastern Front in WWI (specifically at the Battle of Tannenberg), a limited period of efficacy on the Western Front, and his later effusive support for the false narrative of the Dolchstoßlegende (stab-in-the-back theory). In truth, Erich Luddendorff was more in the right place at the right time serving alongside Hindenburg, and managed for a time to leverage the Field Marshall's prestige and the precarious state of the German war effort to achieve significant power. I do, however, reject the notion that he had some sort of 'absolute power, as evidenced simply by the fact that he was removed from command by the Kaiser with the support of Hindenburg in 1918. While he attained an almost unprecedented level of control over the military and political decisions of Germany for several years, he was unable to leverage that control for any sort of long term political power or to achieve any of the major goals for Germany victory (overseeing instead, in this case, punishing defeat).
Ultimately, I would conclude that Erich Ludendorff was not some brilliant, Ender Wiggin-grade military genius who seized total control of the most powerful country in Europe and nearly brought it victory before it was snatched away by internal conflict. He was a capable, relentlessly ambitious man who managed to link himself to one of the most popular military figures of his era (Hindenburg). He was fortunate enough to be assigned to the Eastern Front and benefitted greatly from the lopsided conditions between his and the Russian forces, as well as the brewing Revolution in what became the USSR. He arrived on the Western Front at the right time to oversee what appeared to be a turning tide for the Germans, yet ultimately supported actions that drew America into the conflict and doomed his side. Ludendorff was able to insert himself into high command positions by virtue of his popular image and by threatening to resign and take Hindenburg with him, but he was widely despised by his peers and quickly jettisoned once he was in a vulnerable position. Finally, his reaction to these events was the embrace of anti-semitic, nationalist conspiracy theories that removed all blame from him for his military defeats. In the process, he raised his personal profile while lending his image and mythos directly to growing nationalist movements, notably the NSDAP. Far from rejecting Nazism as an ideology, Ludendorff only turned against the movement when it became clear that they had no intention of sharing power with him. With his death, as with Hindenburg's three years before him, he gifted the Nazi's an opportunity to link their struggle with the pseudo-mythologizing Dolchstoßlegende of the Great War. If Erich Ludendorff was a 'prodigy general,' it was only because his own self-aggrandizing, refusal to accept responsibility for his actions and alliance with Nationalist elements overshadowed his actual behavior and role in the German defeat during the First World War.
It is incredibly hard to say how much Hitler's rise/political education was shaped directly by Ludendorff, but he was undeniably aware of the man as a general; Luddendorff was immensely famous, even when he was deeply unpopular. Hitler certainly seems to have bought into the idea of the dolchstoßlegende that Luddendorff promoted as a powerful political tool, although there is a tremendous amount of debate over the degree to which Hitler believed in anything as a foundational ideology. Ullrich refers to Hitler's "bottomless mendacity" in his personal and political life matched to a remarkable capacity to accept and promote his own falsehoods - in other words, Hitler was perfectly willing to lie about almost anything and then use those lies as evidence for his actions. I think it is most useful to think of Hitler as a profoundly pragmatic political actor. He identified the need for a political movement that could thread the space between nationalist conservativism and socialist collective action, and by explicitly creating an enemy out of internationalists (with Jews as the ultimate shifty, stateless actors, loyal only to their profits and their faith) he was able to draw people from disparate political factions into his web. Trying to nail down exactly what Hitler believed is sort of missing the point in my opinion; the man believed in power and was willing to embrace any ideology to get it. If you want a truly fascinating look at the way early members of the Nazi party (those who joined prior to 1933) understood their own motivations for joining the NSDAP, I would read Theodore Abel's Why Hitler Came to Power, a collection of responses to surveys conducted by the author, an American sociologist. Fascinatingly, the majority of respondents claimed to find Hitler's antisemitism either inaccurate or distasteful, but put that aside as an acceptable compromise given what they say as the benefits of National Socialism.
Great answer. One mistake though, it is just Erich Ludendorff, not Erich von Ludendorff. An understandable one though, given all other German generals.