Religiously - and to be clear I'm referring specifically to Christian Creationism - there was already an answer, and like all answers it was to be found in the Bible. Interestingly the Creationist stance was that Neanderthals were as human as anyone else. They were quite simply an extreme product of the Tower of Babel, that episode where all humankind attempted to build a tower that could reach Heaven and, presumably, God. God, as He was wont to do at the time, didn't take kindly to this hubris and (so the story goes) scattered humans all over the world and gave them different languages, to prevent any future uppity architecture. The Neanderthals were simply a far-flung result of this, the Creationists reasoned. They then very obviously met their end during the Flood of Noah. [EDIT: u/DoctorWhoSeason24 correctly pointed out the Flood preceded the Tower of Babel - my bad!].
As a biology amateur and enthusiast, I found both your answers informative and excellently written. They enlightened me on an area I knew nothing about..Thank you!
I definitely didn't mean to imply modern humans aren't partly Neanderthal - we indisputably are, just not in the way Creationists postulate, which is that the only difference between Neanderthals and modern humans is our life span, and that we'd "become" the same as the Neanderthal fossils if we simply lived much longer.
Homo Heidelbergensis, who lived in the Middle Pleistocine (about 2 million years ago) is thought to be the ancestor who branched into Neanderthals and us as a direct result of their far-flung migrations, with Neanderthals emerging under the selection pressure of chilly Europe and humans in more temperate Africa. Heidelbergensis is a direct descendant of Homo erectus, who invented fire and spread throughout the Old World. It was originally thought (as the make suggests) to be our first bipedal ancestor, but as archeology progressed such milestones have been pushed back farther and farther. Which brings us to homo habilis, the "handy man" who was thought to have invented tools, only to have that distinction snatched away by their earlier ancestor austrolepithicus who is also credited with our bipedal ambulation. This brings us finally to homini and the branching of our lineage with what would become Chimpanzees, who at this point went off in their own direction. This likely occurred about 7 million years ago.