Pre-renaissance art was also highly influenced by spiritual values and the need to educate a largely illiterate populace through narrative art. For example, the newly ordained Franciscan order - known for their vows of poverty, preaching in urban centres to the lower classes and patronage of the arts - commissioned the artist Giotto to adorn the walls of the Basillica of St Francis of Assisi (consecrated in 1253) with narrative murals of the story of Christ alongside representations of the life and miracles of their founding member St Francis of Assisi. This served the rhetorical purpose of elevating the newly canonised saint to the level of Jesus Christ himself - St Francis was often considered as a kind of ‘Second Christ’ - a saint who lived his life according to the example of Christ and as such had the extreme and singular honour of receiving the stigmata, the physical embodiment of the wounds of Christ. The narrative murals were less concerned with naturalism and more with imparting a message - that St Francis was an important saint whose example should be emulated, as well as illustrating without words the history of how the order of St Francis came to be, something we might call marketing, or even religious propaganda, in modern times!
Thanks for the great answer. Perhaps I'm trying to reduce it too much, but it seems oil painting may have been quite the enabler toward the trend. Was oil paint invented in Europe? This would perhaps also imply that other media that allowed for greater flexibility may have been used for more naturalistic looks, such as charcoal or graphite, do we have examples of that? Though I guess you can't quite correct mistakes in charcoal so easy.
There’s so single answer - aside from the fashion changing The move towards naturalism was the result of the collision of multiple factors and objectives - creating religious propaganda, expressing spiritual and philosophical ideas, the availability of new technologies (oil paint, advancements in geometry and perspective, later also the camera obscure, etc) as well as the expansion of the role of the artists and their newfound freedom to put their individual mark on a commissioned work. Whistler is an excellent source for more information - especially if you’re interested in the role of drawing in Renaissance paintings.
If you’re interested in some practical examples of how artistic values progressed during the Renaissance, Catherine Whistler’s dense but meticulously researched book ‘Drawing in Venice’ is incredibly informative and while she focuses on Venice she also speaks to art in Italy and Europe in general.
Great info! And I did read that the first evidence of oil paint is 8c in Afghanistan. Which is cool. Pre-renaissance did charcoal drawing have any popularity?
Oil paint was popularised by the Dutch, including artists like Jan Van Eyck. Charcoal and graphite were used largely for drawing - and drawing was a central component to Italian Renaissance art. It was also used to transfer a preparatory drawing or “cartoon” to a wall for a fresco or a canvas for oil painting. For example, utilises the softness of charcoal to creat delicate transitions between light and shade. It’s also amazing for the humanist aspect - look how the Madonna interacts with the baby Jesus in a natural, maternal way, starkly in opposition to the . It was expected that Renaissance painters would practice incessantly copying Antique sculpture and live models - Giorgio Vasari outlines some contemporary techniques in his 16th c book Lives of the Artists. So correcting mistakes was not so much the key (as the artists would be trained to copy faithfully) as the ability to blend colours, add subtle tints and velature and add highlights. In comparison, the Central Italian fresco tradition would fill a form/shape with varying tints of the same colour to imply depth - whereas the Venetian tradition embraced the use of colour (not only lighter and darker shading of the same colour) to create depth in a more dynamic way. There was also some tension between these schools!