In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Did I misread? It says NYC is paying for transportation to Quebec. Is NYC sending them through an area without the stations? NYC is sending them through where there is no checkpoint. WTF?
considering how Canada, who shares a border with nobody but the US, , and the nearly 2000 mile long US-Mexico border that is abused by the entire international community regularly -- I have little empathy for the Quebec immigration minister's state of "surprise" and even less desire to renegotiate a treaty to further minimalize immigration through to Canada. pull your weight, fellow member of the G8.
In these cases, they first make a refugee claim at the border or from within Canada, and then they have to go through a lenhy tribunal process to determine if their claims are founded or not (ie: Is their story BS, and if it's not BS does it even fit the narrow definition of a person facing persecution).
If a claimant, under 3, if found not to be a refugee (the majority of cases), it costs the Canadian taxpayers approximately $150,000 to process the entire tribunal and support process per claimant (which Canada is legally bound to undertake as part of being a signatory to the UN Convention of Refugees).
This title is misleading. In the article there is an agreement between tour countries. So the surprise is bullshit it would seem. Also, the title acts like NYC is doing the same thing as Florida and Texas which is not true. Those people were lied to.
And so while Canada may celebrate and welcome immigrants, what is occurring with the run on the border has an overall negative impact considering Canada's immigration program was not designed to incur the now extreme burdensome expense imposed on it under 3.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
according to your first article there, it seems the Canadian Minister of Immigration, Refuges and Citizenship projects and celebrates an increase in immigration to cement Canada as a destination for talent and bolster the economy. so those immigrants from the US’ “poorly controlled southern border” who as you claim were given visas and sent north, should be more than welcome right? or is it only /certain types of immigrants/ they want in Canada? cherrypicking who you want in your country sure don’t sound very humanitarian to me. either way maybe he and the lady from the original article can get together and reconcile their differences regarding the “Roxham Road Situation,” which surprised her. or maybe Canada and the US have similar issues regarding poorly controlled southern borders?
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !