In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Thanks. So the 1st and most direct step to stop violent abusers who own guns, and have restraining orders on them, from shooting their female spouses, is make divorce illegal for men to initiate (since they don’t have enough incentive to be married) and make divorce extremely easy for women (who as you say, have too much incentive to stay marrried). do I have that right?
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Citizens. Until they are convicted, they are citizens. The idea that that doesn’t matter is bonkers to me. If they represent an immediate threat, the answer is to hold them until trial, not take some of their weapons and give them a stern warning not to be a domestic abuser. Bare minimum, issue the OOP, let the person either A) forfeit their right to a rebuttal, accept the protection order, hand in any weapons they have, and procede to trial or B) Let them challenge the order and let them be heard in court nearly immediately, an absolute basic premise of our justice system. Hell, I’d be ok with the officer serving the protection order bringing an iPad and a public defender and offering an initial hearing within the first 30 min on zoom if the defendant was willing.
Not true. The standard is "preponderance of the evidence", and there must be objective evidence, not just allegations under oath. (Note: "Domestic violence orders" are a type of restraining order.).
I was just reading the text of the ruling, it has essentially removed the means/ends consideration (with limitations) to simply address the literalist interpretation of the amendment. I would have to imagine the idea of a curtailed right vs a stripped right is where they are bringing the idea of the founding intent into play.