In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Yup. And democrats need to stop acting like we have a perfect system with impartial judges, accept the reality we live in, and come up with a plan to address it.
No definitely impossible. Absolutely impossible. Its like, not even close. It would require completely changing how congress works, which in turn would require a constitutional amendment. Even the founding fathers couldn't ratify and write just the constitution in a single congress. They had to postpone huge sections of it for future congresses to deal with. Now imagine that times ten thousand. And that's just the basic law before you get to budgeting.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
It's an impossible task to re-pass all federal legislation and would basically destroy the rule of law in the united states, effectively overturning hundreds of years of legal precedent and, arguably, every amendment to the constitution, as well as making all military contracts, personnel and secrets evaporate. all of those things are federal laws that would need to be re negotiated. There simply isn't enough time to even review the military budget during a two year session. That's how insane this idea is.
And the 5th circuit is one step away from a Supreme Court who is probably jizzing on their own robes over the idea of permanently eliminating entitlement programs in one fell swoop while usurping powers given to Congress in order to consolidate its own power.
So.. According to this theory, all federal spending must be re-legislated from scratch every new Congressional session ,i.e. every 2 years? That's insane. Goodbye, defense budget, and virtually every other thing in the federal budget? The right really is a suicide cult, isn't it?