Thanks for answering. Since you mentioned the Manchus as your specialism, would it be accurate to say that the notion of Han ethnicity emerged as a response to Manchu identity? Was the emergence of the two identities as fully differentiated ethnic groups the result of deliberate Qing policy to distinguish themselves from the majority, or a reaction to an attempt to assimilate the two groups into one in order to downplay their "foreignness"?
It is still a bit of an open question. Some, such as to an extent Mark Elliott, have argued for there being a sort of ethnic Han identity, or at least an increasingly essentialist conception of Han identity, already by the late Ming, thereby making Manchu ethnic identity (which he argues came about by the 1630s) a response to Han identity, and not the reverse; Pamela Crossley argues that Manchu ethnicity coalesced during the later Qianlong reign in the 1770s and 80s, but that Han ethnicity really came about thanks to essentialist discourses of ethnicity in the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom in the mid-19th century, but stops short of asserting that the former influenced the latter; and Edward J. M. Rhoads argues that Han as ethnicity emerged as a product of encounters with Western discourse, particularly Social Darwinism, in the late 19th century, and that Manchu and Han as ethnic categories developed in parallel, crystallising during the Republic.
Can you elaborate on this? What changed in the Qianlong reign that altered the conception of the Manchu identity? Thanks.
Crossley's views on things tend to be complex and at times hard to decipher, especially over a career spanning several decades, but going by her argument in A Translucent Mirror (1999), the idea is that the Qianlong Emperor, who expanded the empire to its greatest territorial extent, also presided over an effort at precise categorisation and delineation of key imperial 'constituencies', which aren't so much groups of people as much as somewhat amorphous but basically mutually exclusive conceptual blobs of beliefs, practices, institutions and traditions, but which can be referred to, unfortunately somewhat misleadingly, as Manchus, Han Chinese, Mongols, Tibetans, and Muslims. This process entailed diminishing or eliminating awkward liminal categories such as 'Martial Han' (i.e. Han Chinese members of the Eight Banners), recasting them either as Han Chinese (by expelling them from the Banners) or as Manchus (as those who remained would be folded into a now more Manchu-centric Banner system). I'll admit that it isn't clear that Crossley is necessarily arguing that an ethnic identity emerged in the 1770s/80s (as she doesn't think the term makes sense in a pre-19th century context), but an essentialist one, which is certainly a distinction but not a massive difference when you get down to it.
Interesting. It seems that a lot of concepts in Chinese historiography are murkier than they first seem.