The cheeky answer is that the rest of Europe didn't have a "Feudal System" either (other equally cheeky answers that are also correct include: (1) feudalism wasn't a system, (2) the system wasn't feudalism, (3) the very notion of feudalism is a product of our imagination, and lastly, (4) why do we need to call anything feudalism in the first place?).
Furthermore, staying in Genoa--i did my dissertation on this city, but this sort of thing happened elsewhere--politicians in the city states often acted as feudal lords outside of the city walls while maintaining a complicated set of citizen rights within the walls of the city. For centuries, the Fieschi were the most powerful familial faction within Genoa, and they drew their wealth and authority from their estates around Lavagna. Indeed, within that city, you have a two-tiered political class of nobiles--landed nobles with estates outside of the city who also invested in trade--and mercantes--individuals who drew their wealth and power exclusively from trade. This second group was not able to overcome the former until the insanity that is 14th century Genoa when they made a more assertive compact with the lower orders of the city.
Different factors instead influenced Germany's early development. While Bishop-Council systems of government were fundamentally ubiquitous in Post-Roman cities (including those in Germany) much of Germany wasn't a post-Roman society: the early Franks and Carolingians had overseen a voracious eastward expansion. While the Franks and Carolingians would prove exporters of some elements of post-Roman culture, and cultural and social assimilation was indeed a component of the Empire's creep eastwards, by and large the Frankish Empire's expansion was a military one. While there are parallels to be drawn between the expansion of any two empires, it is undeniable that the Mediterranean's network of cities lent itself to one kind of expansion and assimilation process, while the Frankish eastward expansion was quite another, very much facilitated (and sometimes required) by the absence of a definitive land border with cultures very different from those on the Mediterranean (of which the Franks were a member — a fringe member, but a member nonetheless) leading to a very different kind of conquest and subjugation process.
The answer, on the one hand, has to do with the absence of mechanisms which led to these institutions to emerge in the rest of Europe: as politics in the Late Empire were increasingly a power struggle between generals stationed on the frontier, as the rubber band holding the Frontier and Rome together stretched to the point of snapping individual warlords were able to appropriate the local institutional framework and consolidate monarchical rule in those frontier territories. And while grants of land ("Feudalism!") are an easy substitute for salary payment to loyal soldiers once imperial tax revenues disappear, there is a lot of the old roman system which still manages to get transmuted through the centuries (for centuries the Monarchs of Europe still struggled to reduce the influence of the Roman Church, with the German "Emperor" literally traveling to Rome to be crowned for nearly a thousand years).
The political mechanisms of the Southern Monarchy emerged on the one hand through a very late appropriation of roman-style provincial governments propped up on life support (Constantinople still appointed a Catapan in Bari up to the eleventh century, while the Lombard strongmen who defied them in Salerno and Capua played at being even more Roman than the Eastern Romans) and on the other hand generous land-grant style rewards which the Lombards first, and Normans later, offered over a surprisingly rapid process of consolidation. So while it was a very much a contested territory, the South never really experienced the sort of tumultuous sequence of weak institutions the North did. This meant that while prosperous and politically autonomous cities did emerge, they never came to become the institutional building block that urban governments instead became did in the north, and such there weren't any hurdles to "subvert" by the monarchy and the aristocracy (landed, un-landed, or a combination of both) who supported them.
Now, what is my overall point? Basically, I want to emphasize that while there is no unitary system that governs western Europe during the Middle Ages, there were shared social, legal, and political traditions, and if you look closely you see that Italy is not as different as you might first assume.
The high medieval socio-political order has clear roots to the immediate post-Roman period, but we can see some of the clearest trends emerge in the post-Carolingian era, when the various successor granted away lands and titles and the old kingdoms disintegrated. Italy is no different in this respect. By the early/mid-ninth century, the Kingdom of Italy was a hot mess. The father-son royal duo Berengar II and Wido were forced to grant charters to the large cities of northern Italy, granting their independence. That said, these charters contained the much of the same boilerplate legalese that you find in personal charters to some sort of landed aristocrats, granting the same sorts of rights that you would see elsewhere in Europe.