In Kharkiv the Russians basically ran out of men. The Ukrainians were able to use small fast vehicles to basically drive between towns and cut off supply routes, forcing Russian units to flee or surrender. They didn’t have to attack strongpoints head on. In some area where they did it took awhile to take the area. The best example is Lyman where a BARS (Russian reserve) unit held up the Ukraine forces for many days. In Lyman the defensive works were nothing compared to what the Russians are building all over now. And Lyman had to be abandoned by RU bc it was outflanked. The Russian lines extend far and deep now. So if the UKR struggled to take one smaller city with minimal defensive lines against a very depleted force, that doesn’t exactly make me feel like they’re going to do the same thing against a lot more men with much better defensive positions. If you look at WW2, the Allies often struggled to break German lines (sometimes takings months to do so) despite being better than the Germans in every single aspect of war. Attacking someone in a conventional peer vs peer war is HARD.
Just like everyone knew it wouldn’t happen, and then how the Russians would crush the Ukrainians, then how it was only a matter of time before the Russians won, and then how the Ukrainians could never regain their territory, and how the Russian massive offensive of hundreds of thousands of men and thousands of pieces of armor were going to make major advances…and now how the war is far from over and how impossible it will be for Ukrainian to regain Crimea.
Is this a sportsball metaphor? Who are the Lakers and who are the away team supposed to be? Is Kobe supposed to be representing Ukrainian tanks? Russian (conscripted and don't want to be there) reinforcements? So many questions.
who can forget those glorious russian moments, like when they didn't capture bakhmut, or that other time they didn't capture bahkmut, or when then threw literally thousands of unarmed prisoners into the meat grinder in a failed attempt to capture bakhmut, or when they took a picture of the sign outside of bakhmut and claimed they captured it but then it turned out they didnt. what a country.