Because they needed to get rid of their corruption cases. Everyone of them is now "not guilty" since the prosecutors, witnesses, and investigators were told to not attend court.
Neoliberalist-managed IMF has always imposed draconian austerity measures. It is better for nations to just stay the hell away from IMF than to borrow from IMF and get into it's grasp.
Pakistan is extremely over-populated and entirely unsustainable. There really is nothing to be done at this point given the climate situation (outside of their control), rampant corruption and religious extremism, not to mention they've been spending almost 4% of their GDP on the military/the military own massive parts of the economic and political landscape (obviously corrupt as well).
I mean, who are you going to tax? the uber rich will just leave (or you know, are the political elite) the middle class is in shambles so you won't get much taxes there.
That's before the mentioning of dozens of prosecutors, witnesses, and investigators being assassinated.
And what does some of their politicians recommend? Close markets early as well as "Abdul Qadir Patel, a Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) member, suggested that couples wanting to have children should leave Pakistan and add to the population in countries where Muslims are a minority."<- export their religious fundamentalism.
what are you going to do if you spend more money than you bring in? print money forever? just ask the Argentinians how well that's going.
I did economics at university and without a doubt the washinon concensus type conditionality is bad but an underlying problem with the global system is that consequences for extremely poor governance and local unsustainability lags by decades, the international community takes on the weight of local crisis/politicians and governments get bailed out, while the problem only continues to grow. And then you have a situation like Pakistan that happens. In 10-30 years. as the effects of climate change truly start to hit (everywhere really), Pakistan will have almost certainly become a failed state.