r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
No reasonable person expects people to be honest but a reasonable person would expect that an account with a Twitter checkmark is exactly who they say they are (outside of hacked account) because for twitters entire existence they have touted that check mark as a way to guarantee to it's users that Twitter has done it's due diligence to confirm the identity of the account and it's users can trust this account to be exactly who the account claims to be. That will be the basis for any lawsuit going forward and since Twitter didn't even have the common sense to make the paid for check available to everyone with no verification different from the original one they will have a hard time arguing against this established precedent.
Hi blademan9999. Thank you for participating in /r/Politics. However, has been removed for the following reason(s):
There's a huge difference between someone who went through the original process of getting a check on Twitter which required full authentication of the person's ID and relationship to any organization they claim to be representing saying some stupid untrue thing pretending to be true and anyone with $8 being allowed to pretend to be anyone they want, getting the same Twitter endorsed/verified check and saying things pretending to be others that are misinformation.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
This one is 100% on Elon and Twitter because only a complete idiot didn't know this was coming as soon as it was announced that anyone with a few dollars could get the checkmark without the other requirements such as submitting identification and other forms of proof verifying your identity or relationship to the company your account claims to be from.
In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.