Given the composition, such unilateral response was unlikely, and certainly not for the reason stated in the question.
I would assume that from the synthesis of arguments presented above the infeasibility of such actions is clearer. Though one would have to go into specifics and argue the cases state by state of intervening states and state by state of states being intervened with. But that would require a more-in-depth and specific question.
The commonly-accepted rules of international law are those enshrined in the 1945 UN Charter and subsequent international conventions and UN resolutions, and the associated rulings of the International Court of Justice. u/PhiloSpo has outlined some of the legal background, noting the key Article 2, section 4 of the UN Charter. General Assembly resolution (the Declaration on the Inadmissibility of Intervention in the Domestic Affairs of States) went further:
1. Pastor, Robert A. (2001). Exiting the Whirlpool: U.S. Foreign Policy Toward Latin America and the Caribbean. p. 96-97.
So in sum, western countries didn't generally intervene in African coups because in those days it was considered contrary to international law (though that of course didn't stop less overt involvement, often against elected governments), and because its moral case for doing so wasn't what you'd call watertight, and because geopolitical or economic interest tended to trump ethical policy.
Butler, Michael ( Spring 2003. ) U.S. Military Intervention 1945-1994: An Empirical Inquiry in Just War Theory," Journal of Conflict Resolution vol. 47(2): 226-248.
Note that there's nothing in either provision limiting the right to political independence to countries with civilian or elected regimes: it's subject only to compliance with compliance with the fundamental requirements of the Charter, notably non-aggression against others. The principle doesn't override the UN's right to act (or authorise action by others) to keep the peace or respond to other extreme emergencies: innovations such as the 1948 genocide convention hinted at a possibility of internationally-agreed action, though the qualifying conditions and appropriate responses remained undefined.
4. Gleijeses, Piero ( Diplomatic History 18, Spring 1994 ). Empire and Revolution: The United States and the Third World since 1945.