Mass Observation diarist 5427 specifically mentioned that she was considering getting her car retrofitted to use a different kind of fuel, costing the equivalent of $6,000 today, just to get around the gas restrictions; unfortunately for her, the gas restrictions came with a ban on most types of non-essential driving, so she dropped the idea.
What a wonderful resource! I can’t wait to go through some of these. Thank you for your wonderful work.
Follow up question, I heard it proposed (a number of years ago, I don't recall the source, my apologies) that during the WWII era while some US domestic rationing certainly had a direct supply-&-demand relationship to the Allied war effort some notable portion affecting day-to-day average households might perhaps have been politically performative.
Summerfield, Penny, and Gail Braybon. Out of the Cage: Women’s Experiences in Two World Wars. London: Routledge, 2012.
This created a terrible problem for Truman in 1946 when he began to lift price controls (strikes and massive price increases resulted), but it also unintentionally ended up killing off Byrnes' chance at the Presidency since some of his strongest opposition in 1944 for the Vice Presidential slot came from a new enemy: labor.
Nicholson, Virginia. Millions like Us: Women’s Lives in War and Peace 1939-1949. London: Viking, 2011.
This dovetailed with the massive effort made between government and the private sector to promote the efficacy and importance of rationing; this is where basic food groups developed for what was considered basic nutritional needs, where alternates were suggested for recipes, reuse of products considered, and where advertisements in magazines urged housewives to do their share with every last meal preparation. The social pressure to conform was immense, but it wasn't just that; as government issued coupons, it now became a crime to misuse them, something that even Justice William O. Douglas - later known for often obstinate protest against potential government overreach on civil liberties - authored a 1946 opinion in Davis v. United States upholding the conviction of someone who had hoarded hundred of gasoline ration coupons for resale precisely because they were government issued.
Zweiniger-Bargielowska, Ina. Austerity in Britain: Rationing, Controls, and Consumption, 1939-1955. Oxford, New York: Oxford University Press, 2002.
FDR insisted that the CIO president apologize the next day, and he did, but almost no exceptions to the executive order were issued and inflation stopped for what were considered essential goods throughout 1945 (and in fairness to manufacturers, many did cost plus contracts that voluntarily capped their own profits.) No one went on strike, and the war effort was unhindered.
The MO diaries were a non-institutionally-affiliated project started by two social investigators a few years before the war, and after the Munich Agreement [Sept 1938 annexation of the Sudetenland + appeasement] the British government decided that they cared enough about keeping an eye on public opinion that they provided funding. The program expanded pretty massively after that. The diaries, and corresponding background data, have mostly been digitized at [Mass Observation Online] (.
Sources: several Mass-Observation diaries (contemporary diaries written by normal people - there are people doing this for COVID too, and I look forward to reading them someday.) plus.
The first thing that all the alphabet agencies accomplished was to implement rationing in April 1942 with War Ration Book 1, and unsurprisingly given the supply disruptions mentioned above the first things limited were sugar, butter and other fats, and red meat. All meats and other dairy rationing came in 1943 - incidentally, the phrase "Mind your Ps & Qs" originated from this period when they stood for ration (P)oints and food (Q)uantities (edit: source was apparently wrong on this) - and while there was occasional grumbling about how much you could buy, the difference was that because of rationing everything indeed remained available on shelves provided that you indeed had coupons - and for once, most people could afford them. (One thing that reflects this is that meat consumption in the United States rose 1/3 between the start and end of the war despite rationing, a sign of just how thorough the recovery had spread through all economic stratas.).
IIRC, the proposal was that to some extent some domestic goods which were not particularly in shortage (and perhaps not really expected to be) were rationed to the extent they were in part to encourage the American public to maintain an active personal sense of engagement with and awareness of the war (and war bond) efforts.
Not really. The closest comparison you can probably make - labor pushing back against limiting wage increases - isn't really in the same realm and was a very different animal than perceived individual sacrifices.