I'm suing for all the things listed in the post because they blatantly did all those things the pot was because my dealer was over playing video games & we'd smoked a fat blunt so the neighbors called the police & my dealer had his supply w/ him & no they weren't unauthorized that's the point of the post management illegally refused to let them apply my treatment team said don't worry we'll write a letter making them a reasonable accommodation management refused a reasonable accommodation & demanded I leave BECAUSE I filed for a reasonable accommodation they never once followed the law they were a bunch of Karen's who thought because they were management they could do whatever they wanted hell even w/ the police report they almost lost the case because of all their illegal activity & their behavior in the courtroom only reason the judge sided w/ them was as a kindness to me since it was clear they weren't gonna stop their harassment the judge flat out said she thinks the environment they created was harmful to my mental health so the ONLY thing management had on me was the police report.
So what? You think that's some sort of excuse? It's not. There were illegal drugs in your home, in violation of your lease, and you got caught.
Correct the raid/pot was a legitimate complaint/reason not to renew the lease but that doesn't change the fact that I have good reason to sue them in the eviction case what mattered was the raid/pot management still got a big time lecture for doing what they were doing & got a court order to stop doing it but in the end it didn't change the fact that they showed the court a police report stating my address was raided & pot was found on the premises in the case of my lawsuit all that's relevant is the fact I can prove they did everything I'm suing them for it doesn't matter at all what I did or why they felt justified in doing it the iron clad facts are that they blatantly broke dozens of laws so my question is how do I proceed what type of suit do I file & how do I do that & how do I handle their lawyers contacting me in response.
As I mentioned above, you look very bad in your own story, where you try to paint yourself in the best light. I’m sure the truth will make you look much worse.
Yes they sent multiple fake eviction notices demanding I leave when they had no legal grounds then the raid happened & they had legal grounds to evict I did call the police on her for breaking & entering & tresspassing but due to a technicality the police couldn't arrest her & I'd have to go the magistrates office & get him to issue a warrant for her arrest which I couldn't do because I can't drive & the rest of the stuff is all civil law so the cops can't do anything the big thing I'm suing for is discrimination the rest is just add ons how do I file a lawsuit for discrimination I did lose almost all of my possessions due to the timing of the eviction I had to pick & choose what was most important to me that could fit in a car & leave the rest & I had to pay for alternative housing for 4.5 months.
No they never sent a legal eviction notice they just waited for the lease to end then sued for possession of the premises also the discrimination is they refused a reasonable accommodation & sent a fake eviction notice BECAUSE I filed for a reasonable accommodation also I understand that wrongful eviction doesn't apply but the other stuff is all civil stuff you can't call the police because someone slandered you for example you have to sue them for it so I don't understand why the comments keep saying I can't sue.
Again I got verbal permission than the landlady that gave said permission quit & the new management pretended I never got permission & refused to let them apply so my treatment team stepped in & said were writing you a reasonable accommodation letter I told management that they didn't like that & illegally demanded I leave.
My treatment team said they were writing a doctor's note saying I needed those people to take care of me that's what made it a reasonable accommodation also that's false a landlord cannot refuse to let a person apply they have to let them apply & can only refuse to rent to a person if that person fails the background check.
It sounds like you don’t really understand what happened. Suing for possessions IS a legal eviction notice. Your landlord would not have received a writ of possession if they hadn’t given you a legal eviction notice followed by your failure to move.