by u/Minardi-Man and by u/AyeBraine discuss how people found jobs more generally in the Soviet Union. I do want to go into a little more detail to answer your specific question, though.
Third, it promised long-term security in the form of guaranteed, immediate priority housing, child care, and other social infrastructure (all free, as per the Soviet social contract); and also special statuses/badges that equated to increased pension plans and social support perks later in life. And, presumably, a new city to call their home — which played out differently for some when many of these became ghost towns later for all sorts of reasons.
Neutatz, Dietmar. Die Moskauer Metro: von den ersten Plänen bis zur Großbaustelle des Stalinismus (1897–1935). Köln: Böhlau Verlag, 2001.
Just to drive home the main gist, and to project it forward in time, in the post-war era (or rather, after the practice of using convicts to build remote-area megaprojects had wound down and stopped), the same combo of motivations played a huge role in people going off to settle, build, and develop towns and cities in the far North, sparsely populated parts of Central Asia, and other inhospitable places.
Wolf, William. "Russia's Revolutionary Underground: The Construction of the Moscow Subway, 1931–35." Electronic Dissertation. Ohio State University, 1994.
\Also, not all of these people moved to the "hard" places, far from it: there was a large strata of seasonal workers who went there to work on mining, building, or surveying gigs, made literally wads of cash, and lived the rest of the year comfortably in one of the larger cities. (Or maybe blew their salary in a wild, protracted Vegas-like bender, slept it off, and signed up for another stint.).
However, as society recovered from the war and the Soviet Union was officially formed in the early 1920s, the Bolsheviks introduced a series of policies known as the New Economic Policy (NEP), which once again returned many factory leadership positions to appointment rather than election, and allowed free trade on grain, business, speculation, and money. For the rest of the Soviet Union's existence, there would be money to work for, and depending on the exact period we're talking about, high wages and cash prizes might be a very effective way to get people to perform dangerous and difficult jobs.
Ultimately, the best answer I think I can give you, after all these flip-flops in policy and the tales of the Metro workers, is that the Soviet Union incentivized work in difficult, dangerous and unpleasant jobs rather similarly to how it was done in capitalist countries around the same time. High wages were often part of the picture. But just as often, money had nothing — or at least little — to do with one's choice of work. Quite often, there wasn't any good money, or meaning, or glory, to be found in doing unpleasant jobs, and people did them until they could find something else. People did dangerous and difficult jobs for money, but they also did them for glory and renown, or because they found meaning in the danger and difficulty of their work, or in the community that they built around it, or maybe even because they believed it was worth it to help build a better society. Or just because they figured somebody had to do it.
And just brushing lightly against the topic of "closed cities" (gated enclaves that surrounded secret factories and research institutes that developed and built things like ICBM and space tech) and the non-secret "naukograds" ("science-cities") like Novosibirsk, these offered an increased standard of living PLUS a very lively intellectual atmosphere. Imagine rather comfortable, clean, modern mini-cities with insane concentrations of scientists and engineers as their population, with the attendant infrastructure for intellectual pursuits, like libraries, hobby clubs, sports clubs, etc. They also offered a tradeoff — some restrictions on movement, security clearance rules, a degree of remoteness, against a position where you can apply your knowledge and training to incredibly grand projects and live amongst peers.
So what made them do it? Ask ten Metro workers and you'll get ten answers, but I can try to generalize. Pay probably wasn't the key factor. Many probably came to Moscow expecting much better, and only stayed because there would have been no food back in their village. But it wasn't all negative. Some stayed because they were proud to be building something that would improve others' lives. Some stayed because they grew to like their fellow workers, and to enjoy the sense of community that they built. If you believe the propaganda, this was the main effect of working on the Metro: building community. But even if it was emphasized in propaganda, I do think, to a considerable degree, it was true.