/u/ImmortalThunderGod79 showed me the Bibliography section of Stephen Turnbull's new "Samurai vs Ashigaru" (2019) book.
On a similar note, the “Demobilized Employees Autonomous Group” - “created for the purpose of mitigating the impressive degree of unemployment afflicting demobilized employees” - had sent out an appeal to shop-owners, in order for them to “privilege demobilized personnel in their hiring process”, given how the latter, “consumed the few savings they had put together at great cost during pre-war years, found themselves in quite miserable conditions”.
2. In the work the author gives various dates Kōsaka Danjō records/dictates the information, ranging from 1575 to 1585. In contemporary records, through that entire time period, and in fact for most of his life, he used the clan name of Kasuga. There's no reason to think the author would mess up his own name.
The rest of page two was dedicated, for the most part, to cover minor advancements in various local labor negotiations – from the ongoing steelworkers strike, with the assembly of the Unione Sindacale Milanese, hearing from the delegation which had met with the Ministry of Industry in Rome and returned with a moderately unsatisfying resolution of the issue of piecework salary adjustment – to the “agreement reached between silk employees and industrialists”, with the approval of a memorandum aimed at “reaching those economical improvements necessary to face the current price increase” and thus reaching a resolution in “a controversy which had been going on for a while” and “removing any reason of conflict between capital and labor, a necessary condition for a rapid reconstruction of national wealth”.
1. Even if Takeda Shingen was at the time not very experienced in pitched battle (and this is questionable, remember the Kōyō Gunkan plays up his prowess as a commander), Itagaki and Amari were highly experienced, and in early 1547 the two crushed the forces of the Kantō Kanrei Uesugi in a pitched battle. Both have been important Takeda vassals since the days of Shingen's father, so if they thought Shingen did something wrong it's hard to see why they couldn't point out any mistakes the young lord makes. Yet clearly the forces of both veteran commanders were defeated. And if inexperience led to the defeat of Uedahara, then why did Shingen lose, possibly even worse, at Toishi in 1550. Shingen's supposed to be very experienced in siege warfare. The charge of inexperience leading to defeat makes little sense when seen in these light.
On July 31^st 1919, late evening – back from Rome, where he had likely been busy accommodating certain issues with the local Fascio - Mussolini intervened to the “assembly of the Central Committee of the Fasci Italiani di Combattimento”, held in Milan for the purpose of revising the composition of the Central Committee, where Attilio Longoni and Celso Morisi were replaced by Umberto Pasella (as Secretary) and Eno Mecheri (as deputy Secretary).
2. The battle "provides an excellent example of a major clash between mounted samurai and ashigaru...".