OK, so, it sounds like what you want from them is to, essentially, verify that in the future they will follow the rules to make sure that if it happens again that it will be taken seriously, including things like having the police be there to arrest the guy, etc, in addition to not blaming you, correct?
1. The Airline didn't just fail, but appears to have done so purposefully. Every employer has a responsibility to respond to employees and to take corrective action when something is wrong or violates the law. In my case, I was sexually assaulted in the air and reported it in the air to both Flight Attendants and Pilots In Command as required. From there Pilots are to report to Base Ops and it would have been determined from there that a Supervisor meeting the plane and Law Enforcement were necessary. A female passenger Tweeted the airline in real time and via social media before the plane landed, my CA based Base Supervisor had been made aware of the incident. For a work environment to be made safe, an employer has to respond to employee reporting and do what is ethically and morally right. After reporting the incident, the airline waited until all the passengers and perpetrator left the plane and called me when I was at my layover hotel. I was reprimanded for screaming and told it was an accident. An Employee is not safe if an Employer lies in wait to manipulate the appearance of the truth after the fact rather than do the basic and obvious thing and conduct an investigation to see if the perpetrator can be brought to justice. An Employee is not safe if they report sexual assault and a plane full of people can verify an audible scream at a level commensurate to sexual assault--but the airline's actions deny the existence of a moment 149 passengers may not forget. Airlines have no training, procedures, or policies, but FAA requires training and ways of doing things for EVERYTHING so it's weird sexual assault isn't mentioned. For how common sexual assault is, I would expect that legacy carriers who are 89 years old or older would have a way of handling something like this by now.. By this I mean a formal policy on paper that is ethical, moral, and lawful as opposed to the airline's special policy of doing away with anyone that asks for help as many times as it takes to get it.