The reason is twofold: first, they were related. Second, emperors weren't Monarchs and the republic never developed a fully understandable succession system.
OK, I think I get the idea. Iranian kingship is really its own can of worms (things like the physical beauty of the king and generally how much he looked like the "platonic ideal" of a king seem to have been considered important for legitimacy by some factions, for example. It's all very confusing.).
The conceptual framework in which Emperors operated on a propaganda level was extremelly republican / populist: every new law, every meassure, every military endevour, was justified as "advantageous for the common good" even if they weren't, the same way that today everything is done "to defend democracy", even if it isn't: in a "democratic" frame, democracy is the main building block for narratives and political justifications; in a republican frame, the common good was the main conceptual buiding block.
But again and fearing being repetitive, this set of unequivocally eastern despotism clichés was only the propagandistic dialectical counterbalance of a republican ideological core that made the issue "who rules, why and how" a very complicated one. But what is unequivocal is that Emperors never got to be Monarchs in the long run. They were never able to stablish functioning monarchical systems of family power and institutional bypassing. Even if they apparently (as in formally, ceremoniously) did, getting to the extreme point of creating the "born in the purple" tradition (which was an entirely made up, almost modern marketing thing, that worked only to the outside in propagandistic terms, but very little in terms of inner real power occupying politics), the populist, republican ideology combined with the preheminence of the State over the horizon of posibilities of private individuals or families, made it impossible to stablish any shade of monarchical reality to the day to day operation of the polity in the long run.