Throughout the late 1700s and the entirety of the 19th Century, no Dalai Lamas assumed political office. They all died young, before reaching their age of majority, leaving Tibet mostly to the rule of the Panchen Lamas. That said, the decentralized nature of power, and the dominance of the Manchu Empire essentially meant that the Ganden Phodrang (the Geluk government of Tibet with the Dalai Lama at the top) was mostly ceremonial outside of Lhasa. They could theoretically demand taxes, tribute, raise armies, and grant legitimacy in courts of law, but for the most part, nomads of Ngari, farmers of Chamdo, and merchants in Lhasa had very little to do with each other and likely obeyed very different laws depending on the year, the political winds, and whatever power structure seemed to be in their locality, the hands of both Beijing and Lhasa of a variety of weights.
Thanks for this, a buddy passed this one to me knowing I'd like it and he was sure right. Its always interesting to see the same old political struggles in a different place. This might just be me, but the Dalai Lama seems 'newer' then I always expected. Is his sect older, or a more recent spin off of an older one? I'm probably not doing a great job describing this.
To your main question, however, about how the Dalai Lama was regarded as a world-renown spiritual master, when even in Buddhism, he's a relatively small figure (the de facto head of the Geluk sect of Tibetan Buddhism) probably owes a little to the growth of interest in Buddhism during the 1960s and then to his award of the Nobel Prize in 1989.
I think it's worth considering here that the Dalai Lama, like Mahatma Gandhi who inspired him, is - regardless of your opinion on their political role and actions - is an intensely influential figure, particularly in his homeland. What he does, the majority of Tibetans do. They are not a monolithic entity, but they hold an immense amount of respect and trust him in matters both religious and political. When the Dalai Lama first fled Tibet as the Chinese entered his country in 1950, he was approached by an American officer promising him support if he were to go into exile and hold onto the idea of Tibetan independence. The Dalai Lama refused, knowing this was tantamount to a declaration of war, and went back to Tibet to deal directly with the Chinese for nine long years. When a rebellion led by Khampa tribal fighters started consuming Chinese attention in the mid-late '50s, they told the Dalai Lama that he needed to not only denounce the fighters, but also send the Tibetan Army itself to fight them. The Tibetan Army, which was small and poorly armed, and would have been mostly a symbolic act, would likely have joined the resistance than take up arms against them, so the Dalai Lama tried counseling patience and restraint, to try as hard as he might to not let the war spread beyond the boundaries of Kham. But the Chinese refused to accept this, and it was this issue in particular that led to the Lhasa Revolt in 1959, and the Dalai Lama's flight into exile in India, where he remains to this day. (And it's worth considering that while the Dalai Lama was dealing with the Chinese, trying to run a country under occupation, and try to hold back a spreading war, he was completing his Doctorate in Buddhist Philosophy. The event immediately sparking the Lhasa Revolt was an invitation by a local Chinese commander to celebrate the completion of his degree with a traditional dance.).