As russian I wish for putin good health so he can spend every last of his days in a jail cell. So he can see everything taken away from the people he cares for, if they exist. So he can see Ukraine emerging from this nightmare which he brought upon its lands, I want him to see how russia might be a part of developed world under a good leadership. So when his time comes, he will think to himself how little he did for what he was trusted. But alas, don’t think he will ever understand how much he had, how much he took from people. Slava Ukraine.
Just as equally it could mean they now have produced so many air defense systems that there is simply no need to have that much on the front and they start sprinkling it within peaceful population starting with president "because why not?".
Within Russia's borders, they should destroy ammunition dumps, aircraft/tank/vehicle factories, military bases (particularly those involved in cruise missile attacks), anything that would slow what Russia counts as logistics. They should also destroy air defences, to make it easier to carry out long-range strikes against other military targets in Russia, and force them to bring more of their air defence units back from Ukraine to Russia.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but aren't the Pantsir S-2 and S-400 systems meant to be Russia's most modern and effective anti-air defence systems? Presumably the Ukrainian drones that hit Engels had to pass through areas that were supposedly covered by those systems?
It's no coincidence that the Engels-2 Air Base that was hit by Ukraine is roughly as far from the Ukraine-Russia border as Moscow is. They know Ukraine can send drones that can penetrate through Russia's air defence network, so they're trying to provide additional defences to places they think Ukraine would be likely to strike - like at Putin's residence, at the Defence Ministry building, at the Kremlin, etc.
Exactly. I also believe that by only hitting military targets, you don’t give the average citizen of Russia something to fight for. They will continue to live their lives and avoid conscription.