Yes, eels were still eaten during World War II, as fish in general wasn't rationed, but the real reason for their decline on the table was overfishing and a huge decline from the 50s onwards. Jellied eels definitely retained popularity into the 20th century, but I haven't seen any indication that people had such poor associations with eels and the war that they lost popularity-- its more about how the rise in price and decline in access while other previously unavailable products became more popular shifted us away from eels.
The phrase often used is 'A Surfeit Of Lampreys'. Meaning he died from overindulgence in eel, not so much poisoned eel. But even then, his actual cause of death is contested. We don't know for sure.
After the Roman occupation of Britain, we get some evidence for the continued popularity of eel consumption in Bede's Historia Ecclesiastica, which tells of Britain as a land with "the greatest plenty of eel and fish." IN another, more interesting anecdote, he tells us of a town wracked by famine. Bishop Wilfred " when he came into the province, and found so great misery from famine there, taught them to get their food by fishing; for their sea and rivers abounded in fish, but the people had no skill to take any of them, except eels alone. The bishop's men having gathered eel-nets everywhere, cast them into the sea, and by the blessing of God took three hundred fishes of divers sorts, which being divided into three parts, they gave a hundred to the poor, a hundred to those of whom they had the nets, and kept a hundred for their own use." In the absence of real meaningful fishing knowledge, eel eating and eel fishing was at popular in the 8th century, perhaps as a remnant of the diet the Romans had brought with them.
Eels are such a fascinating food to look at the history of, because they were so popular for so long, but now, you'd be hard pressed to find many takers for a bowl of Jellied eels. There was a that had a similar takeaway-- sure, people used to eat eels, but why would you really pick a bowl of eels over a meat pie at one of London's few remaining eel, pie, and mash shops? There's a novelty to eel eating now that really obscures the long and really global history of eel eating.
I haven't found any evidence that eel eating was thought of particularly negatively. People liked eels-- they were easy to keep alive, easy to cook down and preserve without salt (into jellied eels) easy to cook in pies, and harder to substitute with low quality goods than beef, which could be replaced with vermin, cats, and dogs. One piece of eel related legislation declared eels "esteemed (as in truth they are) most Excellent Food (The Price being set by The Right Honorable the Lord Mayor of London) are bought and sold at very reasonable rates.’ They were readily available, but also could be cooked in manners befitting both the lower classes (in pies by vendors) and the higher classes (just as they had once been enjoyed by the Roman elite classes). Eel pie has a particularly storied history, with references to eel pie dating the 1400s and over 100 eel pie shops existing in London at the turn of the twentieth century.
You reference the long history of eel eating, but to provide a bit more context for it, I've seen it suggested thet eel eating was introduced by the Roman empire. there's lots of documentation on the Roman eel obsession-- look to Juvenal's fifth satire, which explains the letdown of receiving a sickly stringy sewer eel over a lamprey, or Horace's 8th satire of book two, where a lamprey is the center of a feast. When the Romans conquered britain, they brought this love of eels with them-- and eels were consistently available, meaning they were a food source that translated well in this corner of the empire. that there is evidence of pre-Roman eel consumption in the Netherlands, but I'm not sure what this evidence is.