But really, any insults he throws at her should be answered by saying he appointed her as US Ambassador to the UN, and she served in that time for two years-- longer than most of his appointees.
1. Trump doesn't care about the party, and will do whatever it takes to win. If he loses he will launch a 3rd party run to continue the grift. This gives him leverage.
- The NYT reported that she had a traditional wedding ceremony according to Sikh traditions but Hayley claims that she secretly converted to Christianity before her wedding and only later (conveniently during her campaign) came out as Christian.
4. DeSantis is trying a high road strategy where he's barely criticized Trump. Trump last week called DeSantis a pedophile and DeSantis made a weak statement about how he's "not focused on criticizing other Republicans". This is the same strategy that many people who faced Trump in the 2016 primary tried and they failed. How will DeSantis be able to stand up to Trump calling him Groomer Ron and RINO Ron when he isn't willing to get down in the mud and fight dirty with him? Unless he switches his strategy he won't make it anywhere in the primary. But even if he does there's still point 1 to contend with.
I'm not enthused about Haley, and would probably switch over to another candidate if the field expands more, but compared to the rest of the field right now (which is basically just Trump, with DeSantis/Pompeo/Pence teasing his entry), she's someone I can find palatable in the primary and would be a step back toward a more normal Republican Party. She's got governing experience (and is still quite popular in South Carolina), she's got foreign policy experience, and I have confidence that she'd be at least a competent President who will at least try to be a president for everyone and won't stoke the more nativist, conspiratorial, hyper-partisan, anti-intellectual elements in the current political environment that just want to "own the libs". She's definitely very "politician-like" and panders, but at her core she's more of a Romney-type establishment Republican than a Trump-type populist, which is a massive improvement.
2. DeSantis will have to make the case that even though "Trump was the best president in American history", and that Trump "won" the last election, that he should be voted for over the real deal.