No not really. Azerbaijan is technically neutral and isn't part of any large mutual defense pact and a observe state in the non-aligned movement. While Azerbaijan does have economic relationships with Russia and their military still uses Russian and older Soviet equipment they have made closer ties to the united states and have begun purchasing western military equipment. Their is a cultural connection to some parts of Russia and the shared Soviet and Russian empire history but that is starting to fade after the invasion of Ukraine. With some Azerbaijanis concerned that Russia is trying to send message to Azerbaijan along several other post Soviet states that to stray from Russia will lead to invasion and the slow killing of your local culture and identity. Poles also show that Azerbaijanis rate Russian leadership at 52% approval with many Azerbaijanis being openly hostile to any Russian that has relationships with Armenians. Russian Caucasophobia and the apparent inability to tell the difference between Chechens and Azerbaijanis has caused further distrust of Russia.
Why the fuck are you still using 7.62x39mm? Yes it's cheap, but engagement ranges with respect to modern optics means that the cartridge is, outside of some expensive specialty 7.62x39mm ammo, a severe bottleneck in combat performance.
Edit: also the 7.62x39mm has a harder time dealing with body armor than newer bullets, though this is a minor issue compared to things like having the combination of range, accuracy, and control to allow for accurate bursts of fire for suppression and hitting targets. Plus weight savings means being able to give soilders a little more armor.
Check the terrible insas rifle Indian military/ paramilitary uses. It's what they could make by themselves. They really needed to replace that junk. The frontline forces use western rifles, this is merely a replacement and by joint production they hope to learn how to make better things.
Army: we need 1400 rifles now; Gov: our state run manufacturer is trying to make one give it a few more years.