In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Great. The more bizarre things the out of control GOP House of McCarthyites spends its time on, the less damage they will do to US.
education." This sounds like a typical Republican run red state. So,by this mans own standards, why should they still be allowed to govern?
WHEREAS, for most of our Indian citizens, the Indian reservation system has produced the negative effects of drug abuse, alcoholism, domestic violence, welfare dependence, poverty, and substandard educational achievements, resulting in lack of opportunity for their future well-being and happiness; and.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
WHEREAS, the Indian reservation system is a policy conferring "sovereign nation" status to individual tribes inside of the borders of the United States, a policy that is, again, diametrically opposed to the Constitution of the United States; and.
WHEREAS, the Indian reservation system is a policy based entirely on race, which is diametrically opposed to both the United States Constitution and the Constitution of the State of Montana; and.
(3) communicate the progress of this investigation to legislative leadership in Montana and any state containing a reservation for American Indians.
WHEREAS, the continuation of the reservation system is not in the best interests of either the Indians (Primary Sponsor) inside our borders or for our common Montana citizens; and.
WHEREAS, the Indian reservation system has clearly failed to positively enhance the lives and well- being of most of the Indians or the other citizens of the State of Montana; and.
WHEREAS, Indian tribes that do not individually own their property have the lowest life expectancy of any ethnic group in America; and.
WHEREAS, Indian tribes that do not individually own their property have the highest poverty rate of any ethnic group in America; and.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !