I wrote the passage below the line as a follow-up for a now deleted comment on scurvy. The comment covered much more than European history of citrus as prevention and cure, I was just adding some detail on the British/European story. In direct context for the question, it's worth noting that Lind reviewed two centuries worth of (predominantly European) literature and even then, it took nearly 50 years for his conclusions to be implemented. (When I say "predominantly European" I mean by authorship; I don't know how much of this literature took inspiration from the practices of other cultures.).
I suppose I'm operating on the assumption that out of millions of villages and medical practitioners/healers/surgeons, at least someone at some point must have said "I know this isn't how the healer in the next town over does it, but I believe it's more auspicious to dip my hands in the water as part of this pre-treatment prayer ritual" or to use your example, some ship's doctor somewhere in some country who swore by bringing a bit of dried lemon along on his own voyages, but who never thought of sharing his practice with the medical community.
I quite explicitly did not offer a direct answer the OP's question. My comment was originally in response to a top level comment which got deleted, presumably for not being in-depth enough. It referred to native American use of pine as a source of vitamin C along with some other details I do not recall. I was adding some context to a rather cursory comment on how the British became known as limeys.
Interesting. It sounds like this is beyond your field of study, but scurvy is a great example of this phenomenon, because it seems like at least one civilization should have made this discovery over the course of human history. It seems like one step would be to look closely at societies without many Vitamin C rich natural resources in the immediate environs, or other seafaring/traveling cultures who survived on very basic diets for long periods.
Like I'm not seeing the connection. Here again you've just said again that the suggestion is there. What is the logical mechanism of the suggestion? I'm just not getting how one supports the other.