So this gets us into a couple of complicated topics surroudning homosexuality and sexuality and the concentration camps as well as how things are remembered, who influences the remembering and that these things are heavily influenced by social discourses at various points in time.
While there is more to explore in this higly complicated and contentious topic, the gist when it comes to your questions is: levi mentiones these men because there were prisoners in the camps who would use their attractiveness, their bodies as chips in a barter society in the camp and this stood out especially to those not partaking because it was a socially stigmatized activity and later often used to demonize groups that were perceived as hostile.
Thank you, Sir! But would I still like to add some comments to your original answer, because it made me uncomfortable in certain ways and contradicted things I read elsewhere, both in academic and journalistic worlds (I'm reading stuff on the subject because I'm personally interested in it, not for university, and I'm more interested in the post-1945 development of the state's stance towards homosexuality, so please excuse me if I'm not giving you any sources right now).
There is a couple of crucial components to understand here. The first one is the details of the Nazi persecution of homosexuals. You, OP, write that "As far as I am aware the Nazis made concerted efforts to round up and exterminate homosexuals" – this does not exactly get to the core of the issue. Nazi German persecution policies towards homosexualy, more specifically, gay men is less similar to that towards Jews as is suggested here. While my colleague /u/kugelfang52 goes into this , I have also written about this before , , and . The short version is that persecution of homosexuals centered on German gay men, who behaved in ways that were regarded as socially especially egregious and/or got them them into conflict with law enforcement. Ruediger Lautmann: “Gay Prisoners in Concentration Camps as Compared to Jehovah’s Witnesses and Political Prisoners,” in Michael Berenbaum (ed.): A Mosaic of Victims: Non-Jews Persecuted and Murdered by the Nazis, (New York: New York University Press, 2000) 200-206 writes based on a comprehensive review that about 100.000 homosexuals were charged and imprisoned by the Nazis, of those about 15.000 ended up in concentration camps most of them charged as repeat offender criminals and about 3.000 survived until the end of the war. This is not intended to mkae light of the suffering of these men but at the same time it is a very different structure to their perseuction when compared to, say, Jews.