In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Huh? You literally couldn’t sue because the state courts you sue them in would have no legal standing since federal elections would be in the sole purview of the state legislature. That’s one of the biggest consequences of this case. It’s important to make the distinction between state and federal courts here, because most of the time when maps are struck down, it’s because the state SC rules against it. This case would make that impossible.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
From the first sentence in the : The independent state legislature theory or independent state legislature doctrine (ISL) posits that the Constitution of the United States delegates authority to regulate federal elections within a state to that state's elected lawmakers without any checks and balances from state courts, governors, or other bodies with legislative power (such as constitutional conventions or independent commissions).
Oh I know. It would've been politically impossible though it shouldn't ever have been. People think of the SC as some time honored apolitical monolith that it never was. That perception seems to be changing now.
If the court rules fully with Republicans, it would be impossible for anyone outside of the legislature to contest the maps, with the slight exception of if the maps violated the few federal laws on redistricting that exist (like the laws on majority-minority districts and stuff). So Republican legislatures could make basically all democrat districts safe Republican, and same with Democrat legislatures. California, if it could get away with it, could theoretically draw maps so that hardly a single Republican wins in the state, with no way for people to contest it. Additionally, what people tend to freak out more about is the fact that since the state legislatures would have full control over federal elections, they could decide not to certify the results of the election in the state if it does not go the way they wanted it to, (and probably blame fraud or whatever to explain it). Hope this helps!
I think that the general argument for the "independent legislature theory" is that the legislature specifically would hold control, outside of governors or state supreme courts.