Rationing was definitely in force in Switzerland, extending, for some products, until 1948. Switzerland was far from self-sufficient in food production. During the war, federal minister Friedrich Traugott Wahlen introduced an intense Anbauschlacht (cultivation battle) program to increase agricultural production through measures such as planting potatoes in open spaces in the middle of cities. The effect on actual food production was modest, and most likely the primary objective was psychological, as part of an overall program of Geistige Landesverteidigung (mental national defense). Apart from conventional rationing measures, there also were less obvious measures, such as a legal requirement to let bread go stale for 24/28 hours before selling it, so less would be eaten. There's a fairly good writeup .
Consensus in general supported the policy of neutrality. Sweden had very little to win, could affect very little and bring a lot of devastation and ruin on itself by entering the war. Sweden was in porcupine mode, with points outwards during the war, and that mentality could be seen in public opinion and the general debate. Some wanted to aid Finland more, others wanted to go to war against the Soviets, but they remained a small minority after the Winter War.
There were, especially early war, a small minority in Sweden that was in favour of Germany and perhaps even joinign the war. Due to extensive commercial, academic, royal and cultural ties between Sweden and Germany as well as Russia being the traditional arch-enemy of Sweden, this group included some high-ranking officers, pats of the industrial and commercial elite and small parts of the cultural elite. Sweden was also due to close historical ties with Finland very concerned with Finland and aiding it against the Soviet Union, especially during the Winter War, but also to a lesser extent during the Continuation War, and Swedish volunteers served in the Finnish army in both conflicts, about 8 500 in the Winter War, and around 1 000 in the Continuation War.