Based on discussions of the development of shipbuiding, such as Jillian Smith's "Shipbuilding and the English Timber Trade" , and several essays in edited collections like Van de Velde et al., eds., Constructing Wooden Images (2005), which link the size and draught of ships directly with their use as carriers of the timber trade, the lumber was carried internally. Even though they do not come out and say it bluntly, the assumption is clear and no truck is given to the other possibility, which suggests that there is no literature that makes such a case. This may owe to the acceptance of the reasoning that towing lumber at sea is not only hazardous to ship and unpredictable for seakeeping (not to mention that tow lines break in rough seas), but also potentially harmful to the wood itself on those distances. After all, maintaining wooden ships was an active task! It is not like freshwater in even a fleet river, which can transport lumber (with some guidance) using power of current without damage owing to salinity and marine organisms. The transport of wood to the coast came by river, and it could then be floated a short distance in sheltered water to a harbor, but at that point it needed to be loaded onto a ship. Lumber also needed to be particularly valuable in type or size (or simple rarity?) to be worth transporting this way, and the paper suggests that at times of exigency the Crown would seize shipments if theirs were lost. (e: Of course, the term 'loads' and 'shipments' suggests itself that these were carried within a cargo hold--though whether they were milled before or after such shipping is not entirely clear.) Any issue of lumber larger than a ship could carry is not even mentioned in any of the literature, although if anyone knows of something else (u/jschooltiger maybe?) dealing with carriage of masts by barge or ship they can chime in.
The official party name was Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei. This translates to National Socialist German Workers' Party. Christian was not in their name.
The same kind as most planes at the time so this generally meant some mixture of changing altitude; generally higher up to try and fly above flak (but occasionally lower too), or changing speed as well as turning right or left. Basically any sort of sudden movement to be harder to track and aim at. Keeping in mind that planes have far more options for directions of movement in 3D space than we normally do. However, the aiming ability of WWII era high altitude bombers was, while sophisticated for the time (especially the much vaunted Norden bombsight) rather poor and innacurate and what accuracy there was generally required flying relatively low, relatively slow, and straight. In other words being a good target. Something which the military as a whole may want (accuracy) but which your average guy in a plane getting shot at does not. So Havermeyer is really doing what he’s supposed to be doing but understandably not what his fellow airmen necessarily want.