Meanwhile, two groups were born the Liberals and the Bonifacians - the later one being led by José Bonifácio, who is a very important figure to the revolution, and if you want to read more about it, will pop up a _lot_ - both with very different ideals of what should happen to Brazil, but agreeing that they didnt like the idea of going back to being a colony and wanted to Pedro to stay in Brazil as a way to defy Portugal.
The coup that overthrew the Monarchy, was the second. a vast majority Brazilians had no interest in changing the way Brazil was, republicanism within Brazil was reactionary and Elitist, and as a result of this it was only popular within Elite circles. Even though they tried to compare themselves to the American and French revolutions, it had always failed. The reason why Elites within Brazilian society wanted to overthrow the monarchy was that during the 1880s, Pedro II had begun to take a less active affair in governance due to his health and instead acted as an observer. This made many elites believe that the monarchy was an unnecessary system that did little to no good for Brazil, especially because this was a new generation of elites who had never seen the transformation of the country from how it was under Pedro I to Pedro II, to them.
First things first, Pedro II growing tired of ruling Brazil does not necessarily mean that he didn't do a commendable job ruling, and the fact that the monarchy was ousted in a coup does not also mean that the regime was not popular. Now that I've established this, i'll answer.To answer your first inquiry, by the late 1880s Pedro II had become completely disillusioned with his role as Emperor and the role of the Monarchy within Brazil. This is likely due to the fact that Pedro had no heirs which he deemed suitable to replace him should he pass away and because of this he had eventually come to conclude that after his passing the Monarchy would not be the right institution to govern Brazil. Even despite having a daughter, Isabel who proved herself capable of ruling competently in his absence Pedro did not feel like she had what would have been required in order to lead a prosperous Brazil. Furthermore, Isabel was not particularly interested in creating spheres of influence within Brazilian elite circles in order to gain supporters and establish a legitimate claim to the throne either. Isabel did have children who may have been able to be heirs to the throne, however they weren't of the Brigantine dynasty. Knowing this, when Pedro's health began to decline throughout the 1880s he had taken it as a sign telling him that Brazil's time as a Monarchy was over.