I want to say I read somewhere that lemons were also popular because they were somehow difficult to render and served to demonstrate the skill of the artist. Any truth to that? Or is that just one more thing the internet lied to me about?
So: lemons were more expensive and exotic than apples and other local fruit, there were commonly used and appreciated by the higher classes, they looked great in painting, painters showed off their craftmanshift by painting them, and art patrons showed off their wealth by displaying expensive paintings that included expensive items.
Lemons are certainly interesting to do, due to their irregular shape and nubby skin (which means complex highlights), and the peeled lemon motif allowed painters to show off their skill in handling several materials on the same object (shiny skin, white albedo, translucent flesh). Westermann notes how the apple peel (flat and not very exciting) was quickly replaced by the "volumetric" lemon peel (spirals are pretty). But it's possible that part of the initial appeal of the lemon was due to other reasons, such as availability, price, shelf-life, or even resilience: a sliced lemon will look good for hours, when a cut apple or pear will turn brown immediately. But that's just speculation.
This is were speculation starts. Lemons were an exotic fruit, first imported from southern Europe and later grown in the Netherlands in orangeries. They were probably expensive and thus a symbol of wealth, though Wastermann supposes that they were less expensive than oranges and thus more available than the latter, including for painters. Lemons became common enough to be part of Dutch recipes from the 1650s onward, and they were eaten in various forms: fresh, salted or preserved, juiced, sliced, peels, and zest. Several paintings actually show women pressing lemons to make lemonade. Lemons were particularly appreciated for their acidity, and were assigned anti-poison properties by doctors. European navies at the time knew that citrus fruit could prevent scurvy, a knowledge that were later lost until the late 18th century.