I would also sound some caution by noting that this may be running into the "Boss Baby problem". There is a that goes around every now and then depicting a guy who thinks a movie is like Boss Baby because Boss Baby is the only movie he has seen. Funny and all but it gets at a pitfall that faces historians of the ancient world, as the general paucity of source material is such that our frame of reference can be in many ways as limited as somebody who has only seen Boss Baby. Is this a genuine connection and memory, or is this a guy who has only read a literary depiction of pre-classical piracy in The Odyssey learning about another case of pre-classical piracy and getting a lot of Odyssey vibes from it?
1. All this business of 7th century colonisation and trade is a distraction. The real origin of Odysseus lies in something that happened 500 years before the Odyssey was composed, and 1000 km away, and it miraculously survived half a millennium of oral tradition.
Now, I'm not saying Odysseus actually visited Italy or Sicily: he wasn't a real person, and the epic depicts unreal, primaeval versions of Italy and Sicily. I'm saying that's where the wanderings were imagined as happening. It's the setting for the wanderings in the way that Ukraine is the setting of Conan the Barbarian. That is to say, it isn't. But it still provides some hooks for a storyteller to hang the story on.
Thus, while there is certainly potential in reading the Homeric epics as a traditional memory of the Mycenaean and post-Mycenaean world, particularly the travels of the Greeks abroad given the attractive potential of the Sea Peoples, the nature of the epics' oral composition, and the evidence of Greek activity in the eastern Mediterranean during the Archaic period, point to the epics reflecting Greek practices in the Archaic period.
2. A 7th century poem depicts Italy, Phoenicia, and Egypt with their 7th century hats on, as icons of Greek colonisation and trade. All three coincide with major Greek colonies that were recent or contemporary with the poem.