Female viking warriors like those in Vikings and The Last Kingdom are less clear-cut. Medieval Icelandic laws put penalties on women who wore men's clothing (and vice versa), cut their hair short, or carried weapons, and the fictional Laxdæla Saga bears out that this was indeed a taboo. However, just as medieval Scots could conceive of women having political uses outside of marriage when it suited them, vikings could imagine women with weapons - armed and armored valkyries seem to have been a widespread concept in their culture, and the post-Viking-era historian Saxo Grammaticus wrote about a number of warrior women drawn from earlier literature. It's also important to note here that Saxo specifically wrote about Lagertha, wife of Ragnar Loðbrok (two of the main characters of Vikings), as one of these warrior women. Despite the fact that neither valkyries nor these warrior women likely existed, the parallel fact that they were part of Viking "pop culture" is relevant. (There has been a discovery within the last few years that a grave on the island of Björkö in Sweden, which is otherwise exactly what would be expected of a high-status warrior, contains a female skeleton; the interpretation of this grave is still somewhat up in the air.).
Yes, currently there's a lot of people that acknowledge that women have for a long time been under-represented in film and television in general, and _especially_ women doing things that go against traditional (for our society) gender norms. So?
Making kings like Robert the Bruce or Henry V into gentler souls who just want what's best for their people and would ultimately prefer not to fight is done to appeal to modern mores, and in general medieval-set fiction tones down the level of Christian piety that would be accurate for the same reason, with most characters relatively indifferent to religion and actual priests often made to be hypocrites. The level of importance and agency that royal and aristocratic women could have is nearly always understated, from the level of estate administration that they were expected to handle to their personal roles as diplomats and ambassadors.
The sagas have shield-maidens. They have women who fight and kill. They even have a woman who became king (not queen, she insisted) and dressed like a man. Female warriors as part of Norse folklore are fact. Whether female warriors fought in battle is unknown. Weapons grave finds do indicate women do seem to have been able to have the social status afforded a warrior. It is a topic of active debate in academia.
I want to start by noting that the coronation scene in Outlaw King (which I think is what you're referring to, as Hal is crowned in The King by an older male priest) is actually true to the historical record: Robert the Bruce was crowned during his coronation ceremony by Isabella Comyn, Countess of Buchan and daughter of the late Duncan MacDuff, Earl of Fife. There was a somewhat mythical tradition that Malcolm III had given the MacDuff family the right to crown Scottish kings as a result of Lord MacDuff's assistance in bringing him to power - certainly not something that continuously existed from the eleventh century on, but it could be very symbolically powerful. Symbolic power is important to all monarchs, but it's particularly vital when a monarchy needs to assert itself as legitimate against opposition - such as Edward I and his claim to authority over Scotland. Isabella's brother, Duncan, would have been the natural person to do the coronation, but he had been captured by the English at this point and wasn't available; as a result, Isabella had to sneak out and take the role in the ceremony herself to give it legitimacy. (She had to sneak because her husband was an enemy of Robert the Bruce. That she could and would do this despite that fact should help to put her agency and importance as a person in context.) This is a pretty good warning not to assume that women had no place in political events and that their inclusion must mean that a writer is "faking history".