For one—SpaceX’s President, Gwynne Shotwell, made the call. Two, civilian internet systems can not be weaponized—this breaks US and international laws. SpaceX is just following the rules.
Consider also the following historical precedent: Unrestricted Submarine Warfare was considered a war crime. During the Nuremberg trials, German U-Boats captains who had deliberately targeted civilian ships successfully avoided prosecution by arguing that the Americans had done the exact same thing. The defense was deemed acceptable, and they were acquitted. Breaking international law, endangers the legal case by which we hope to charge Russia. The Nurmenburg Trials would appear to set the precedent that you cannot prosecute the losing side for crimes that the winners willingly committed; and thought it's not impossible it's much harder to set a new precedent than it is to carry an old one.
No no. No no no no. That is irrelevant to the point I was making. You claimed that "breaking our own law absolutely does" lose us the moral high ground. It doesn't. At all. You are 100% in the wrong there. You are either a russian troll or a fool to make that claim.
"ITAR regulations dictate that information and material pertaining to defense and military-related technologies (items listed on the U.S. Munitions List) may only be shared with US persons unless authorization from the Department of State is received to export the material or information to a foreign person.[3] US persons (including organizations; see legal personality) can face heavy fines if they have, without authorization or the use of an exemption, provided foreign persons with access to ITAR-protected defense articles, services or technical data.".
Suspending international law and committing breaches of their own because Russia did it first simply isn't winning strategy. Losing that perception in the eyes of the easilly manipulated is far more detrimental to the overall war effort than could be gained by using the public internet to guide a few rockets instead of dedicated connections.
How about we just let the lawyers decide this. The US is fully in a position to shut this down already is it wanted to at all. All of this has been going on for well over a year and has been very public.