Though it is terribly amusing to think that the Terracotta Army was constructed to, say, storm the gates of Heaven and lay siege to a , the truth is - as it so often is – something more complex. In terms of what we often umbrella-term into “traditional Chinese folk religion,” one of the carry-overs from region to region, and across time, is the idea that what is presented and sacrificed to the dead on Earth is reflected in the afterlife. The beliefs of the era were a combination of animism and shamanism – much of which continues with quite a few modern variants of Chinese Folk Beliefs.Spirits of the Divine, the living, and humans did physically (er, well, spiritually) persist in perpetuity, and could offer advice, assistance, divinations of the future, and good fortune. Of course to receive that, one had to properly honor and give to them. The human dead essentially became minor gods with specific influence over the fortunes and fates of their living descendants, and as such could confer powerful boons if properly cared for and revered.
A few things jump out initially. One, although the character 皇 Huang as currently written looks like 白 (bai, "white") + 王 (Wang, "King"), Han scholars believed it was derived from the similar-looking 自 (Zi, "start" or "begin" in this context) rather than 白. This would make the original meaning of Huang into something more like "First King" or "Creator of Kingship" rather than simply "Sacred King" (which would also lean on a meaning of 白 that I'm not familiar with- I don't know of any sacred connotations to the color white in ancient China). It's also worth noting that Huang has both a noun form referring to the "First Kings" and an adjective form meaning "great or venerable, as the First Kings." The given Shuowen definition gives the adjective form while referencing the "Three Sovereigns" (三皇), commonly referenced along with the "Five Emperors" (五帝) who followed them in Chinese legend.
The Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors (三皇五帝) were culture heroes, and interestingly even though there is agreement about how many of them there were, there are several different versions of which figures do and don't rank among them. Generally they are credited with introducing fire, agriculture, divination, and all the other basic trappings of Neolithic Chinese life. The legendary Xia 夏 kings, associated with the early Bronze Age, are more intermediate between obviously mythical and obviously historical, while the Shang 商 are known pretty well from the large volume of Oracle Bones recovered from the last few centuries of their reign (circa 12th-11th centuries BCE).
Exactly. The Sovereigns represented divinity, while the 5 emperors were revered by the smallfolk - smash those puppies together and form an Imperial Qin Megazord!