I won't get into Latin paleography too much, but take a look at 8259. The last line begins et qui. If you look at those first few scratches, you can make out a "T" and a "q," and a really lazy "u/v." In front of the T is two vertical lines: that's the script "e"! Yes, it's just two "i"s and yes this causes mistakes- I address some i/e swaps below. And yes this means that ille is just five vertical lines in a row, which would be much easier to read if they bothered to keep their '"i" and "e" short and "l" tall. They don't.
I’m not an expert in all ancient languages of course but I’ve studied a fair bit of Ancient Greek and some Middle Egyptian, and I think that a lot of what you’re noticing might be (1) translators following some of the grammar and word order from the other language which sounds a little weird and overly fancy in English and (2) translations that were done, say, in Victorian times are going to have a Victorian flavor to the language which will also seem “verbose and refined” to a modern reader.
Thank you. I didn’t mean to imply that they all simplify (and I should really be saying “simplify”), just that I’ve been told by classicists it’s a broad linguistic trend, and it seems reasonable from observation at least of English that rules which are cumbersome and not strictly necessary for distinguishing things in communication have a tendency to go away. I mentioned Polish and Hungarian to point out that plenty of living languages have the “complex” case systems of Latin and Greek, so it isn’t just about age of a language.
In regard to syntax, Greek and Latin have lots of mechanics that English and many European languages have dropped (but not, say, Polish or Hungarian) and they are fairly challenging in that regard. But by contrast, a Semitic language like Syriac (a dialect of Aramaic which I pick because I'm currently studying it) has a fairly "loose" syntax, not as many rules about usage, etc. I think the answer is that it varied, just as languages today do.
Connotation doesn't always translate. Often there is not an English word that encapsulates the connotations of a Latin one. When this happens, translators might turn a single Latin word into an entire English phrase. Invidiose much more literally means "full of envy" in Latin than "envious" or "jealous" mean "full of envy" in English. Thus, the phrase following invidiose in the text, quia rumperes, "who is bursting/breaking", can't be parsed straight into English: "envious one who is breaking" needs some polish. A quick three word insult thus becomes a lenhy phrase in English if we want communicate the same sentiment.