So, they're kind of saying their government and their police that keep the idea of peace law and order are more accepting of the idea that religious zealots and cultists are to be appeased than the idea that people can speak freely and do with their own reading material what they want unless they offend the crazy believers of religion in their society who will then riot and cause real harm to people and damage to another's property?
I didn't say we were. You're correct in that the average Finn isn't all that religious anymore. Rather, it's the institutions that remain, although there is indeed dwindling support for them. This law is just one such example.
Nonetheless, if burning any book one owns in public view or in a private group is made a criminal offense because it is feared someone else may perpetrate an actual violent crime in retaliation for merely being offended, then it gives the voilent criminal an easy self-justification and legal counter argument for committing an actual violent act against someone who merely did something they didn't like being done with someone's own book/property.
I think I get what you mean. It would be like if they were to ban drag as an expression or any discussion of non heteronormative sexuality in schools to prevent kids becoming gay. Or if they were to ban teaching the holocaust or slavery including things like banning 'to kill a mockingbird' or huckleberry finn in case someone got offended. Or even, ban people from using toilets incase anyone commits a crime in them. Right?
Bottom line is, by what you write, that one can easily assume you must think it better to take away simple freedoms of speech and forms of nonviolent protest by an individual than to risk individuals of some certain group taking offense to it because they might actually do something to harm other people who disagree with them irregardless of if their group's retaliatory actions are themselves legal or illegal.
Edit. But amongs the rioters there is likely people who aren't destroying property, and are just shouting and moving angrily on street. That, if they also follow orders from police, is nothing illegal. So everyone should be given penalty based on their own actions.
But in what scenario does person B gets penalty and group A not? Well, this happens if person B burns quran and group A makes crime report. But this doesn't include rioting you claimed happening, so this can't be scenario you described.
It's not about opinions, your scenario of arresting one INSTEAD of rioters is just something that won't happen. You could say it even can't happen. With basic logic it just isn't possible: If group A riots (and brakes law) because person B burned quran, it means person B broke law (as told already by police). In this case both get penalties.