As for the invasion itself. This is a more fraught issue. In general medieval armies at this time period, and later, avoided pitched battles as much as possible. Instead sieges and raiding (chevauchée in the 100 years war might be a better example) were designed to bring about negotiations and resolutions. Staking everything on a pitched battle was incredibly risky, so leaders avoided it as much as possible. Battles were unpredictable and potentially devastating, sieges and raids were a lot easier to manage. William taking the fight to England and offering battle was incredibly bold, but also his only option really. As you correctly note, he was somewhat cut off from his base of support and supplies. While foraging the countryside would keep his army fed for a while, he was in hostile territory in autumn with winter, and the effective end of campaigning season in pre-modern times was on the horizon. He also could not stay too long in England for political reasons, the absence of a medieval ruler was usually taken as an invitation by his rivals for some meddling, and William's relations with his neighbors in Brittany was strained at the best of times.
Thanks a lot for your answer! Can you elaborate more on the Harrying of the North? And how devastating was it? I’ve read somewhere that it was almost genocidal? Any truth to those claims?
He then ordered both the towns and fields of the whole district to be laid waste; the fruits and grain to be destroyed by fire or by water, more especially on the coast, as well on account of his recent displeasure, as because a rumour had gone abroad, that Canute, king of Denmark, the son of Sweyn, was approaching with his forces......Thus the resources of a province, once flourishing, and the nurse of tyrants, were cut of by fire, slaughter, and devastation; the ground, for more than sixty miles, totally uncultivated and unproductive, remains bare to the present day. Should any stranger now see it, he laments over the once-magnificent cities ; the towers threatening heaven itself with their loftiness ; the fields abundant in pasturage, and watered with rivers : and, if any ancient inhabitant remains, he knows it no longer.