Alexander's army reached the Hyphasis in 326. The army wasn't a static group of people; reinforcements were recruited several times during the campaign, both from the territories being conquered and from Greece. People were also left behind and sent home: all of the Greek soldiers sent by the League of Corinth were released following the death of Darius III (though many chose to stay on), and the cities and garrisons being founded along the way were being populated in part by wounded or old soldiers.
2. Books 11 and 12 of the Philippic Histories, written in the mid-1st century BCE by Gnaeus Pompeius Trogus, but which survives only as a condensed summary by one 'Justinus' (or Justin), probably(?) from the mid-4th century CE;.
So the refusal to go onwards was probably an accumulation of fear and the kind of existential fatigue that anyone would have after being on the road for nearly a decade, not a response to some single factor that was more terrifying than anything they'd seen before. (What they should have been terrified of, of course, was dying en masse in the Gedrosian desert on the way home, but they didn't know that at the time!).
26: Alexander claims that the army has not far to go before crossing the Ganges and reaching the Eastern Sea, which forms part of the great Ocean surrounding the landmass of the earth; if they turn back, the Indians beyond the Hyphasis and the Scythians around the Caspian would be left unconquered, and pose a threat to the lands that the Macedonians had only just secured; he cites the exploits of Heracles and, indirectly, those of his father Philip, as proof that tenacity would bring results; he also defends his own conduct in having shared in the army's labours and hardships, and notes that the army had shared in the spoils of his campaigns – the officers, in particular, had also been promised satrapies in the former Achaemenid empire.
So, was Coenus being polite by not mentioning fear as a motivator? Maybe somewhat, but only in the sense that every new conquest involved danger and fear. It's just that the soldiers found the rewards for the first few years to be worth it.
27: Koinos (Coenus) speaks up, claiming not to be attempting to rouse the already-decided army, but rather to attempt to prove to Alexander that turning back is in his own best interests; he notes the attrition suffered by the Macedonians and Greeks in the army and the fact that Alexander had already sent some contingents back before owing to demoralisation and that many in the army had been on campaign for over a decade – even longer if they had served under Philip – and simply wanted to go home; he suggests that Alexander should return to Macedonia, resettle his troops, sort out affairs back in Europe, and return to Asia with a freshly-raised army eager for spoils, calling on Alexander to exercise some moderation and not to burn himself and his army out.
28: The other officers applaud Koinos' speech and Alexander adjourns the meeting for the day; the next day he declares his intent to go on with whoever would volunteer to follow him, and returns to his tent to sulk for another two days; the army does not change its tune, and after sacrifices attempting to gain divine sanction for the crossing prove inauspicious, Alexander finally relents.