For the uninitiated, 'New Qing History' refers to a wave of revisionist historiography that emerged in the late 1980s/early 1990s as the re-emergence of interest in the Manchu language, combined with growing interest in Qing administration in Inner Asia (that is, regions beyond the traditional core provinces of China), led to a reassessment of the nature of the Qing Dynasty as a whole. Rather than just another invader-turned-Sinicised-Confucian-empire, it became apparent that the Qing state actively sought to maintain distinctions between their Han Chinese subjects and their Manchu warrior-administrator caste, that styles of Qing rule outside China adapted to local traditions rather than through imposing an apparently 'universal' Chinese model, and that these understandings would in turn have serious implications for how we understand Qing politics and society.
Yes, it is indeed that book! I was an adult when it came out and it was my first time experiencing anyone from either side of the strait telling their story about the war candidly. All efforts to procure any commentary from my family on this topic had previously failed, and that book was the one that triggered many family stories starting to get told. It is an interesting phenomenon for sure.
By presenting the Qing acquisition of the region not as the product of an inevitable process of cultural attraction, but rather a series of military conquests of largely unwilling peoples who only latterly came to accept Qing overlordship, that narrative of cultural supremacy is further shaken, and another problem exists: it calls into question the legitimacy of the conquered regions belonging to any Chinese state, Qing or not. Further, by denying that the Qing were, as it were, a Chinese nation-state, the extent to which there is genuine continuity between the Manchu-led Qing and modern, Han-nationalist China is also challenged.
Let's begin with the basic point: Han Chinese nationalism has underpinned the modern Chinese state and how it functions to a greater or lesser extent since 1912. Particularly since the 1980s and the ascendancy of Deng Xiaoping, there has been an erasing of minority languages, of minority religions, even of minority ethnicities all as part of an agenda that promotes an essentialised view of the dominance of Han Chinese culture. In addition, the modern People's Republic has a vested interest in retaining control of the territory encompassed by the Qing Empire, which means that there is an ideological imperative to assert that these territories are legitimately 'Chinese', and not holdovers from a specific previous dynasty – and one of foreign origin at that – which could, moreover, be construed as colonial/imperial holdings.
Big thanks for the breakdown and both readings! Crossley's website is really something else (came for the history, stayed for the academic battles) - I definitely need to check out her books after this.