As Arabo-Berbers conquered most of Visigothic Spain in the early 710's (leaving only a rump kingdom in modern Catalonia and Languedoc), the Peppnid family already affirmed its dominance in the Frankish core of the Merovingian realm, in Austrasia especially but as well in Neustria and Burgundy. The death of Peppin II of Herstal, who was the majordomo1 of Austrasia and having set his successor Grimoald II (dying shortly before his father) as majordomo of Neustria and Burgundy, led to a short civil war; but while a loyalist reaction is obviously perceptible in Neustria, most of the war was about which descendent of Peppin II would take the lead and Charles did.
No, it wasn't. Rebels were still a problem and the Aquitanians still had ties to them. Rebels were a problem for decades after Munusa was defeated, and so too did the Aquitanians who had allied with them. The Andalusis weren't trying to conquer the Christian world in some kind of crusade. They also weren't just trying to get some sick loot. Simply put, they knew that the Aquitanians were emboldening and supporting rebels in their northern border regions, and so Abdul Rahman al-Gafiki set out to cross the pyrenees and defeat the Aquitanians. And in so doing, significantly decrease the likelihood of successful and persistent rebellions in Cerdanya and neighbouring areas like Narbonne which had significant numbers of muslims who were also hostile.
1 Mayor of the Palace. Originally delegates of Merovingian kings to ensure the execution of royal authority in sub-kingdoms they didn't held court in; they took more and more authority in no small part thanks to the successive royal minorities; which allowed the powerful Peppinid family to grow in importance until the late VIIth century where they became de-facto the ruling family, not unlike Japanese shoguns.
Just a quick note - "moors" isn't really the best term to use. It's a vague term that christians used to lump all sorts of different people from different places and eras in together. I think if you're talking about Iberia c. 8th to 11th century it's best to just refer to them as "Andalusis" if that's who you mean.It's more specific and identifiable who you're referring to and doesn't have the awkwardness of terms like "moors" and "saracens". It's also a term that can be inclusive of Christians and Jews, many of whom were important figures in the administration and academia of al-Andalus.