But the great majority of our source material concerns Athens and Sparta, and for Athens and Sparta the reality that most people did not fight as hoplites presented an ideological problem. Their societies were built on the (obviously false, but socially important) pretence that all citizens were equal. To be able to express this in art, rhetoric, and historical writing, Athenians and Spartans (and other Greeks more or less like them) needed a generic warrior that all citizens could see as a reflection of themselves. That warrior was the hoplite. Since hoplites were somewhat in the "middle" - their gear wasn't cheap, but not cripplingly expensive either - they represented the reality of military service for a sizeable minority, a grudging concession of status for the rich, and an achievable aspiration for the poor. Using either the light-armed archer or the wealthy horseman as the generic warrior would never have worked; but everyone was happy to pretend that everyone was a hoplite. In addition, the hoplite's way of fighting - taking a stand alongside their countrymen, not giving an inch to the enemy - was a neat metaphor for the duty of the citizen in wartime, and helped to instill the required values. (Of course, ultraconservative voices like Thucydides and Aristotle would argue that the ideal that all citizens were hoplites should be made a reality by restricting citizen rights only to those who could afford hoplite gear.).
The Greek historian Thucydides also describes engagements between Greek armies as one where the fighting between light troops, such as archers, is largely inconsequential, a mere prelude to the main battle is decided in a contest between hoplites (e.g. 6.69). There is no doubt an element here on the part that considers fighting with the bow and arrow as less honourable than fighting at close range with spear and sword, as we have also seen in the discussion based on the epic poems, above. But this doesn't mean that light-armed troops were ineffective, as no doubt resident Classical Greek tactics expert /u/Iphikrates can expand upon further.