No. I'm not sure who "they" is, but it doesn't matter, that's not at all true. Please read what I am saying carefully.
People don’t always know that what they document before they leave (as part of a broader “Plan to Leave” that takes into account how/when they leave so they are safe, keeping a journal of incidents, getting copies of identification, etc) can help them in their divorce and child custody cases.
That is what I have been looking for. A decent lawyer close to her. I know custody battles suck but I can't see a judge leaning in my sisters husbands favor, the guy can't even keep up with his bills. We've (My parents and I) have been helping them out.
My parents and I are here and ready to do whatever she and the kid needs. She's just alone where she is and that messes things up a lot. I will look for one of those places to call. Thank you for your help.
The court would absolutely order the child returned to Michigan if the father filed for an order requesting that within the jurisdictional period, which is generally six months. It doesn't matter the circumstances. Michigan is the only court that has jurisdiction during that period.
If the child leaves Michigan, Michigan's courts retains power over child custody determinations for six months after the date the child leaves. At any time during that period, a Michigan court can issue a binding order to return the child to Michigan. Once the child returns, custody would be determined in Michigan. Obviously, the mother would want to return as well and argue for custody. If she wants to leave the state with the child, getting a Michigan court to order that could be difficult unless the father agrees.
It doesn't mean she can't contest who has custody or where the child should live, but she will have to do it in Michigan. If she thinks there's any chance at all the father will hire a lawyer and do that, leaving the state is not really to her advantage. She'd be better off getting an apartment and a lawyer in Michigan. She can go with you to New England for a short time, but she shouldn't plan on staying there if she thinks the father will contest, at least not in the short term. If she is in danger, though, do whatever it takes to get her out of the house.