This is a really fascinating topic. And coincidentally, it was the subject of my Master's thesis over a decade ago! I'd just like to add my thoughts to what's already been written.
The British vehemently opposed the use of American weapons without prior consultation and approval from London, a condition which Truman compromised on with Attlee by informing him that should the decision be made, Britain would be the first country to find out.7 Alongside endangering the "Special Relationship", Truman also had to deal with the fact that technically America was commanding a UN Task-force in Korea, and that deployment of an atomic bomb without the UN's involvement would shatter international unity and, perhaps more importantly, the reputation of America. Before moving on with why Truman and his administration finally chose not to use nuclear weaponry, I would like to drop in this somewhat scathing remark on the role of British opposition in Truman's decision (from a historian whose bias against the Labour party is most apparent in the source article):
In terms of Truman's own atomic policy, he had actively ordered the movement of nine Mark 4 Nuclear bombs into military possession in April 1951.3 Although these bombs only went as far as Strategic Air Command's bases at Guam and Okinawa, it does certainly support the theory that Truman had plans (if unlikely ones) for a potential strike in Asia (note: this move was so secretive that not even MacArthur was aware of the deployment).4 On the other hand, Truman knew the various geopolitical and moral consequences of deploying an atomic weapon in Korea, and his advisers pressed against such usage.
The whole affair with Truman and nuclear power started well before Korea was even an active battlefield, when he authorised the first (and so far only/last) deployment of nuclear weapons against Hiroshima and Nagasaki during the Second World War. He therefore, of all people, knew the conflict-ending power of the atom; so it was hence an entirely valid prediction that America might bring this potent new weapon to bear against the North Korean and Chinese forces in 1950. As historian Nathan A. Jennings points out:
\[4\]: Jennings, Nathan A. “NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND THE KOREAN WAR: A PRECARIOUS BEGINNING FOR THE TRADITION OF NON-USE.”.