Have you read about his method to slow inflation? Reduce interest rates. He seriously believes making money cheap to borrow will slow inflation.
It's easy to sympathize with the Kurds as an oppressed minority because they are an oppressed minority in 5 different countries and I'll be among the first to advocate for thier own state... however this doesn't change the fact that Turkey has had to put up with decades of terrorism from paramilitary groups founded and funded for reasons related to Cold War politics and the legacies of the Ottoman Empire, nor the incredibly complicated variable that the Kurds arent really unified (onlookers tend to hear Kurd in the news and assume one person bur Syrian Kurds, Turkish, Iranian, Iraqi and Azerbaijani Kurds all have different politics, relations with their home nations and relationships with each other. Of course, all of this context doesn't belay the fact that some people in these nations are genuinely racist shitbags against the Kurds, prompting a feedback loop of terrorism and terrorist funding (see oppressed minority).
I get it. We can only care about one problem at a time and your issue is Yemen. You don't care about any human suffering anywhere else in the world and won't allow conversation about any other tragedies unless you can also shoehorn Yemen into it. Weird hill to die on but go hard homie.
Turkish army targeted YPG/PKK terrorists in retaliation for rockets fired into the Türkiye-Syria border area, the National Defence Ministry said.
Stop it ok. If you wanted to help those people suffering, it would be a good idea to vote differently, to voice opposition against U.S. and international interference in these countries.".
It's actually really hard to say wtf is going on here because where most people have humanistic opinions on the matter, the scale and relevance to most people's day to day lives is nigh non-existent It's a very easy thing to have uninformed opinions on even if you are a Kurd in the region people call Kurdistan because, again, the Kurds aren't really unified in a common cause. Depending on where you are, you have revolutionaries fighting the good fight to revolutionaries looking to build their own regressive state like the Taliban. All the while you have innocent people sandwiched between Assad in the south and Erdogan's tinpot ambitions in the north. For Turkey, in particular, things get even more complicated with Turkish nationalism and the disconnect between what that means on paper and the realities that it's really hard to argue Turkey is a multi-ethnic nation-state for all people under a common flag when the very name is "Turkland.".
Türkiye made separate agreements with the US and Russia for the withdrawal of YPG/PKK elements in the area, as the Turkish Armed Forces were carrying out Operation Peace Spring, which began on October 9, 2019, in northern Syria.
Is the specific manner to bitch about it on Reddit? Can't wait to see this thread in the history books about how you brought about peace to earth. Boy will I look silly then.
The ministry said on Tuesday that YPG/PKK terrorists carried out a multi-barrel rocket attack from Tel Rifaat in northwestern Syria to the area of the Oncupinar border post in the southern Turkish province of Kilis.
I get it though right? Reddit has an absolute throbbing erection at the thought of mentioning how bad the U.S is even at the detrement of the actual conversation.