Pre-Islamic Arabia was relatively diverse. It was near major trade routes at the time and an intersection of several distinct religious traditions: Zoroastrianism in Persia, Christianity and Judaism in Africa (modern day Ethiopia) and the Levant, and Arabian polytheism.
Hanson, R. P. C (1988). The Search for the Christian Doctrine of God: The Arian Controversy. InterVarsity Press.
After writing my question, I did have the thought that Muhammad was likely outside the realm of the (proto?) Roman Catholic branch, and would have likely been more influenced by the eastern tradition of Christianity. But maybe the Christianity of his area and time would be outside the eastern umbrella as well? (I'm a recent defector of the myopic western Christian tradition that I was raised in, so I'm still learning a lot about other histories.).
All this is to say that while Trinity is overwhelmingly accepted by modern Christians, there were large periods of early Christianity where this was a matter of significant theological controversy.
The vast majority of Christians today adhere to a belief in the Trinity, but in the early centuries after Jesus' life, there were a variety of views about the relationship between the Father and the Son. One of the most prominent of these controversies was the belief promulgated by Arius of Alexandria, who stressed the uniqueness of God and rejected the claim that Jesus was co-equal with the Father. The popularity and variety of these views was so widespread that under the aegis of the Emperor Constantine, the Council of Nicaea convened in 325CE to established a single Christian creed, while simultaneously exiling dissidents who supported the Arian view.
At any rate, your answer helps clarify things a bit. I think I was getting a bit caught up on the fact that Islam claims Abraham as their forefather. I was trying to trace a scriptural tradition that would support that (like the Judeo-Christian one), but it seems like that's not really the basis of Muhammad's teachings. That's perhaps just a feature of the religion resulting from the fact that Abraham was common to the Jews and the Christians around him.