That is a big red flag. When one is making an extraordinary claim against what is generally accepted consensus, there ought to be extraordinary evidence for the claim in question, which would include biological data on various horse species and subspecies. If Collin did not at least include these in a lit review, that's already a bit of a problem. While historians do not have to be experts on every subject, historians of science, or those who study sub-fields like epidemiological or environmental history, often have to include major scientific publications in their lit review so that they have sufficient familiarity with the field and its lingua franca.
Miller et al. 1999. Pleistocene extinction of Genyornis newtoni: Human impact on Australian megafauna. Science vol 283.
I tend to agree with Howlingchief that many subspecies should be just be considered regional variation or ecotypes, but fit to a niche can mean less fit for another niche, and populations with divergent genetics and different ecological niches can become less fertile and more genetically incompatible, which has huge implications for conservation breeding.
Oy. The source material outside of the oral histories that Collin compiled do not seem particularly robust. The authorities she cites seem pretty suspect.
Humans in North America definitely interacted with horses, but there is no fossil or genetic evidence for horses persisting here beyond the end of the Pleistocene, nor is there such evidence of horse domestication in the Americas preceding the release of horses by Europeans.
The fallacies abound here. One is a general error in thinking that Michael Shermer identified as "Heresy Does Not Equal Correctness." People making unorthodox claims often point to the persecution of Galileo, the resistance to germ theory, or opposition to Einstein as proof that their unorthodox idea must also be correct, but the establishment (academia, "Western" science, the elite, whoever) won't accept their findings because they are too steeped in orthodoxy. This is definitely a danger in any organization, academic or otherwise--the conventional wisdom can go unquestioned for far too long. But in all of the above cases, the "unorthodox" positions were eventually accepted because the evidence was eventually just too compelling or overwhelming to reject. It is the evidence, not the unorthodoxy of position we should examine. And in the case of this April 2017 study, Collin unfairly lumps in detractors as "Western scientists," as though the claims were not also made by "Western" authors. Here is of said study.
The other thing I tend to be greatly interested in is whether the indigenous horse(s) that died out at the end of the Ice Age would constitute a separate species or a subtype of the eventually domesticated Eurasion horse species (ie, was the relationship closer to modern horses and donkeys, or to Icelandic ponies and Shetland ponies?). I suppose that's a subject for the paleontology or askscience group, though.