I'm going to write a fresh answer because the response I wrote elsewhere in this thread was focusing on a major error. Best to start afresh and just answer the main question: 'what would Jesus have considered the year to be?'.
To add on to the note about AUC, Roman dates actually gets more complex because there were also local calendars--for example, Patavium, modern Padua, used an entirely local year count that modern scholars have called the "Era of Patavium" and probably starts in 179 BCE. Even eponyms could be local, a an inscription might refer to a x and y were curiles rather than the consuls in Rome. And organizations (like collegia) might also have internal dating systems.
1. When I mention it being "after Julius Caesar's victory", I was referring to his victory over Pompeians in North Africa, but he was yet to fight Pompey's son and Labienus at the Battle of Munda when introducing the Julian calendar in what we would call 46BC which would take effect in 45BC.
Long story short. Most civilizations had calendars to keep track of time within a year and a few of them used to count years from one important event but must of them just used their rulers.
In fact most ancient civilizations kept track of time with the reign of kings and emperors. We have tablets written by the Assyrians, the Babylonians, the Hittites and many other Middle East civilizations which are just lists of kings and the time they reigned. These lists have been used to know when events in the history of these nations happened. For example the Egyptians mention a solar eclipse happening during the rule of a certain pharaoh, which we can use to know when it happened. Then if we know in what year Ramses II of Egypt reigned, and we know he fought a war against Hattusilli III of Hatti, and we have the list of kings of Hatti then we can know when every king of Hatti reigned. Then if Hattusilly fought a war against the Assyrians for example then we can know when the Assyrian kings reigned... it's a sort of chain of decipherment.