The short answer is that the Burnt-over District probably wasn't actually all that remarkable in the context of the wider United States, and that its uniqueness in the landscape of American religion in the 19th century has probably been distorted chiefly because the region produced the founders of two lasting Christian denominations that endure meaningfully to this day - Mormonism(s) and Adventism(s). But the region was probably not all that extraordinary or unique. Indeed, both Latter Day Saintism and Adventism quite rapidly became transatlantic religious movements, though the Mormons were more successful in becoming a global faith rapidly.
Fascinating. Thank you for your detailed response. I had assumed that there was something “special” about that area of New York that led to the genesis of new religious movements, so your response is very enlightening. So was this era of the 19th Century a fertile breeding ground for new systems of belief in general in the United States and Europe, then? Like, the rise in literacy and the middle class, the industrialization of society, the development of new communication technologies for spreading doctrine, simmering economic, racial, cultural and class tensions, etcetera all contributed to an environment ripe for messianic and prophetic movements?
But Cross' methodology was quite flawed. He was inconsistent in explaining exactly why this area was more 'mature' than other parts of the United States and he relied on aggregate, county-level data to analyse the phenomenon of religious revival without considering whether or not the individual communities in which these revivals took hold matched their county profiles or if they were outliers. Different counties are judged to be mature for different reasons - some for population size, some for agricultural prosperity. Others are described inaccurately or using shifting boundaries. There is no obvious unified thesis in Cross' work for identifying what it was that made the burnt-over district unique or exceptional; his argument changes to suit the needs of the area he is talking about, and he assumes areas are uniform across large population and geographical units.
Thank you for this post! Sorry, it took me a few days to read it - things have been a little hectic - but as a lifelong upstate New Yorker I've always been curious about the whole "Burned-Over District" concept. The idea that it doesn't really have merit as a description of solely western NY is fascinating.