A french polisher is a man who specialises in the technique of using many layers of very thin polish to bring a smoothly sanded piece of furniture up to a mirror like shine. Which also protects the wood underneath and brings out the grain.
This may underperform the subreddit's requirements slightly--I leave it to the moderators--but one reason to be cautious as you are being here is that assumptions about what titles in the past might mean in technical terms are a huge danger in historical research even into the relatively recent past. This was the issue at stake recently in rebukes to the author Naomi Wolf on her new book about sexuality in the 19th Century in the UK--that Wolf misread a phrase in legal decisions that meant something very different than what she commonsensically thought it meant. (.).
Also, the Geffrye Museum (above) has rooms set out for all periods of domestic interiors in the UK, that you can explore online, and there are a variety of small museums either National Trust or other charities or family biz that show a variety of domestic interiors, factories, and rural life - for Victorian Life Beamish is particularly good up in the North East of England.
I don't want to get contentious , here, but isn't this a bit much? Shellac ( or shellac+sandarac+copal, etc) is wonderfully easy to fix. Water marks ( which need more than a momentary drop of water) can be reduced by setting the piece in full sun on a dry day, and a quick brushstroke or two with some alcohol will usually take care of the rest. And for scratches and marks the surface is easily touched up , padded over with some new finish. Because it can hold a lot of color, spirit varnish is also wonderful for touching up blemishes. New spirit varnish will blend seamlessly into old: a repair to an oil varnish finish will always show a line. And a rag with some alcohol will reverse all of a spirit varnish, take it all away, no need for sanding.
Also as industrialisation moved apace, in the Georgian/Victorian period where you had increased mechanisation and new inventions through into the Edwardian period at the beginning of the twentieth century and WW1 and interwar years and post WW2, you may find that the family stays in the same skill set, but uses it for other products, so the previous generation may have been french polishers but then they become carriage body interior makers or automotive car interior makers (both having wood and needing polish in luxury vehicles) as the market for their skills changes. For example, in my family we have ivory turners, who then become shaving brush makers (the handles being made of ivory) up to the end of the and then bakelite turners in the interwar years once the early 'plastics' are invented. The skills were the same, turning a block of material on a lathe, but the products were different, this is very common if you look at the occupations for a single person or family branch, the skills are transferred to new occupations.