The issue of weapons was not as much related to rank as it was related to a soldier's position in their unit and its overall composition. Every unit in the Army had a unique (T/O&E) that specified the unit's organization, the number of men, their ranks (and the allowed proportions of each, providing a sort of implicit promotion guideline), their military occupational specialties (that is, jobs, with associated specification serial numbers) and the types and amounts of equipment from each of the seven Technical Services (Chemical Warfare Service, Corps of Engineers, Medical Department, Ordnance Department, Quartermaster Corps, Signal Corps, Transportation Corps) or other parts of the Army that were to be issued to the men in the unit, or the unit as a whole.
This system basically fixed a problem that didn't exist. It was in place in some form from WW-2 to the reorganizations that happened post Vietnam. At that point all of the SPC ranks except for SPC-1 got removed. SPC-1 became it's own rank, Specialist (pay grade E-4). It serves as a way to promote privates without making them corporals. In non-combat jobs who have few NCO slots you get a lot of them, with Corporals being rare and promotion from SPC to SGT being common.. In combat jobs like infanty or armor SPC are less common, with Private to Corporal to Sergeant being ideal.
In the US Army, the first rank that has a meaningful leadership role is Sergeant (SGT). A SGT is an E-5, or Enlisted 5. The E- scale is pay scale, with eatch rank having a E-something number that tells you how much money they make, and a title that tells you their organizational role. The lowest rank is a Private, E-1, followed by Private E-2 and Privare First Class, E-3.
d: Battalion headquarters company is responsible for the company maintenance of vehicles assigned to this organization. Second echelon maintenance provided by service company.
I would have loved to go back to the video and provide full detail with a link, but hopefully this is okay for a very minor follow-up. If anyone loves small arms minutiae then the Forgotten Weapons M1 Carbine episode is readily available.
As to extra M1 Carbine magazines, Ian McCollum of Forgotten Weapons and InRangeTV conducted an interview with an expert on the carbine that might explain that. M1's are widely reported to suffer from FTF (failure to feed, as in to feed the next cartridge) malfunctions, which has sparked quite a bit of discussion over the years.
Nice. Looks like the Army hasn't changed. They still do this now, it's still called MTOE (guess they added an M). Every piece of equipment and every position has a paragraph and line for what you are allotted, including the number and type of troops and vehicles and equipment for your vehicles (blue force tracker etc).