The problem with that is that it is for all intents and purposes a separate unit under the tenancy act, whether OP knows the landlord uses the space or not, or whether she rents just the room. The keys are that 1: Theres a separate entrance 2: A separate washroom and 3: A separate kitchen. The law is written in such a way to prevent this exact situation. The unit itself is separated as defined by the Tenancy Act, therefore it should be considered as such for the purposes of tenant rights. You can't just wipe away the law, whether or not the landlords use the downstairs space is negligible as they can theoretically work from anywhere else in the home thus negating the argument that they need to share the downstairs space. The fact that she's rented just a room doesn't mean that she has no rights under the act, its written specifically to avoid these types of situations. If the basement unit wasn't separate from the house then yes different rules apply however, the unit meets all requirements to be defined as a separate living space, and since the landlords are renting it out to people it can be reasonably interpreted that they intend for it to be such.
It won't. The fact that OP is aware she rents a room and not a separate unit, and that the unit is not actually separate (since the landlord also uses the space) makes it clear that the RTA does not apply.
But the combination of it not being a separate legal unit; of OP being made aware that she is only renting a room, not an apartment; and of the landlords using rooms within the 'unit', all argue in favour of it not being covered by the RTA.
They have a "kitchenette", but it's not a legal apartment, and the landlord has an office in the space which means that OP was aware that she is not renting a separate apartment.
Look, if OP really did live in a separate basement apartment, and their landlord was merely faking a claim to the space, you'd be correct.
The basement clearly isn't separate though; that's evidenced by the landlord having, and using, space within it. OP was aware that she's only renting a room, not a separate apartment.
This applies more to situations where a person rents a room in a shared house of other tenants. Like when students rent a room and share the house with other students doing the same.