What state did the grandfather die in? That is normally where probate is supposed to be done. You need to look at the county courthouse probate case records online to do a search under your grandfather's name to see if anyone ever opened up an official probate case for his estate. If a case had been opened, it is normal procedure for the executor to send out notices about the probate to the heirs (who would include your husband), so the fact that your husband was not notified is very telling and an indication that no probate may have been opened.
Thats what I am trying to decide, is it worth it? If she spent all the money anyway, what's the point? Ill be spending money and going down a hall with no end. Or is it worth it knowing there is a lot more to be found in CA. To my knowledge the money is gone, I have no idea where or what she spent it on. Last we heard my husband has not gotten a payment for AZ house because she cannot get a loan to pay him. Its quite the pickle.
You all need to look at the county land records for the home and/or look at the county recorder's office records and/or look at the property tax records (to see if it shows sales history for the home that lists the dates of the sales and the previous owners--try to find the date that the home was sold to your grandfather family) and you also need to look at the date that the home was sold by your husband's mother to try to see exactly who had title to the home--was it in your grandfather's name alone or were there other people's name on the title as joint owner or joint tenant with right of survivorship.
I have a copy of the trust. He is owed the percentages. She somehow out the home in Arizona in the uncles name. Which he is a jr so he has the same name. I’m not sure how she did it without my husbands consent but the Arizona house is in another name now. It’s a mess.
If your husband has enough evidence to want to file charges against her for theft or misappropriation or whatever, when your husband wins his case there will be an official judgment against her that she will have to make restitution on, whether that is paying now or paying in the future if she gets a job or has other assets. She may have purchased real estate or other items that she will have to sell. There still may be some money in the trust if it has not been officially dissolved yet. There might have been a requirement in the trust that a trustee's bond be purchased--if that is true, then you would be able to file a claim with the bonding company if you can prove your assets (or your husband's assets) were stolen.
Get your attorney to ask for a copy of the trust and hopefully that will be the breakthrough that your husband needs to find out how this estate has been handled.