The world needs to wake up and realize this is happening everywhere. The rise of far right nationalism and other alt right ideologies isn't an accident. In every single instance you can ask "what adversarial nation would benefit most from this?" and every single time the answer will be Russia.
Only indirectly. He blames them for the 2008 crash, which he believes led to conditions which led to Brexit. You may disagree, but at least disagree with what he actually said.
Just because corruption and incompetence gutted their military (because it benefited decision makers up until it had to invade another nation) doesn’t mean there weren’t effective propaganda outfits and agitprop manufacturers.
Lol what??? More than half the countries in the world are democratic. Support for democracy worldwide is still very strong.
It's fascinating watching brexit spoken about on the worldnews sub as loads of the posters are from nations that wouldn't accept merging their nation into a new state with their nearest neighbours, wouldn't accept unlimited free movement of people from their neighbours or send them billions in cash every year or have swathes of their law making made by their neighbours without a veto and yet the UK is portrayed as somehow being nuts for leaving such a system and doing so by actually asking it's own people to decide.
But that's besides the point. The topic at hand is an authoritarian regime manipulating the populace of other nations to erode support for their democracy, push policies that negatively impact the other nation (Brexit), and sow unrest and dissent.
And my original opening point applies. All you are doing is reframing maths to seek to find a way to delegitimise a vote, but your 'logic' applies to all votes. It's all very Trumpian.
You're either deliberately lying or willfully ignorant. Not only have various social media platforms conclude there was a significant effort by Russian troll farms to influence votes in the US and UK, other countries, such as France and Italy, have since opened inquiries themselves.