At the start of the war some russian pundits were saying they should "station" troops in Finland too. Some Finnish smartass on twitter said "But there are already 160,000 Russian troops in Finland.".
Easy challenge, as an American: The American Continental Army won the American war of Independence against the far superior British Army, with utterly shit morale, the height of training comprising of a bitter winter boot camp under command a man who didn't speak the troops' language, a command structure that was basically whoever showed up (the head of artillery was a raised as a pacificist Quaker bookseller, and had never fired a cannon before taking up that post, whereas all British artillarymen were in a strictly merit based career track, for example; Knox learned everything he knew from a book), and woeful supplies (there were serious proposals to arm men with bows and arrows due to a lack of gunpowder).
Yanno what? Nevermind. My interest in your hyperbolic and willfully ignorant response has just fallen off my scale of interest. Off to watch paint dry.
Budapest memorandum. That's all that needs to be said. Then of course you can look at the constant statements about the bed to regain former Russian/Soviet territory and you would understand why Finland may not want to rush facing Russia alone or under equipped.
3. Chasing Imperial Russian glory/territory: In the 1800s, Russia owned the entirety of the then "Duchy of Finland".
2. NATO floods the Russian border with wargames; civilian aid floods Finland; the world condemns Russia--Russia now has a war on 2 (or more) fronts...with a broken army.
Aaand, Finland needs EXTRA help defending against a broken Russian army that has given no indication of invading...why?
Finland has been actively arming itself against its Russian neighbor for awhile. And the most you have to present as evidence is the same thing NATO does to Russia.
Weird, it's almost as if the sole threat to Finland, is the threat a NATO-member offers to Russia. Gosh, that sounds a lot like...geopolitical self-defense from Russia.
Is Russia on a massive land-grab, invading willy-nilly Risk-style? Or are they (according to news reports) retreating from the few territories they already captured, with the broken Russian army running with its tail btw its legs?
But riddle me this, Metternich: if Russia is such a threat--then how come its army is retreating; broken, demoralized and cut off from supply? How can its army be simultaneously retreating from its occupied territories--yet somehow ready to assume the mantle of the next USSR, ready to take on a war with multiple fronts and adversaries?