Legit. It’s not uncommon for universities or researchers at universities to develop training modules that they own. Example: CITI training for human subject/animal subject research protocols, Cornell My story, My Voice, Greendot, Qualtrics and on and on. The home university owns that IP. That being said, yes, charging you a fee for having staff do the work associated with verifying those trainings were taken and properly reported (which could be in relation to Title IX or Clery Act, etc.) is completely legal. People don’t work for free and that time paid to the employee/s monitoring that work isn’t free. Universities have to verify the need for fees and have to have them vetted through their system governance and Board of Regents. The fact they are calling it an admin fee indicates those fees are likely going toward someone’s salary in whole or part. Time isn’t free and you should not expect it to be.
If OP has elected to attend an institution that does not charge student service fees then they shouldn't be surprised when costs associated with providing that education (such as complying with regulatory requirements) are charged on a fee for service basis.
If OP is paying student service fees those fees should cover the administrative costs associated with tracking completion of the modules, licensing fees, etc.
The university could certainly require the training but charging an administrative fee to document that it had been completed would likely earn them some issues when they next requested financial support from the state.
I would guess likely not. Assuming this is Title IX training, Universities are now required to have Title IX officers and must publish and make known all procedures to file complaints on what constitutes Title IX violations. Similar to staff and faculty required trainings like ethics or technology safety trainings mandated by state laws, everyone has to complete them. This is largely due to the aftermath of scandals at Baylor (a private school with religious affiliation) and similar institutions. Like most federal policies, it is mandated that any school receiving federal aid (nearly all schools do except very small religious institutions) meet these requirements. The feds want documentation universities are informing students of their rights, providing adequate support, and aren’t hushing up any potential scandals. These trainings and having the student “accept” they completed this training is one way it’s being handled. These requirements apply to the entire student body regardless of degree seeking or time status. It is about being in a higher education environment (even an online one) and schools having a concrete way to verify students knew and were informed about these issues. It is likely tied to any course enrollment, not so much the type or kind of enrollment. This is all based on the assumption it is Title IX as OP didn’t clarify what the training covered. It could be something different I suppose, but legally, I’d doubt there would be much difference.