I feel a bit silly mentioning this, but I might as well: Disney's Mulan (1998) is not a historical representation of any period of Asian history. From the clothing to the setting to the politics to the architecture to the gender roles. (And for that matter, I'm sure 2020's version will be more of the same.) Really, Disney's Mulan (1998) is much more about America's changing understanding of identity and gender roles than about Chinese understanding in any era of dynastic history.
It's Maxine Hong Kingston's 1975 fictionalized memoir Woman Warrior that recast Mulan as the cultural image of the archetypal Chinese woman. Particularly interesting is how the book casts the idea of collective historic memory, and mixes myth and memory. More importantly for our understanding, it popularized the idea of the Mulan story in America and led directly to Disney's 1998 movie.
It makes far more sense this way when considering that Mulan (1998) is more a story about the shifting self-conception of identity and gender in the late 20th Century. The whole plot device about the family being unable to reveal her identity without compromising her safety seems more to do with providing a reason for a loving family to allow their wayward daughter to maintain the integrity of the plot joining the army. Seen that way, the original ballad certainly does call into question the parents' concern for their daughter's safety. But Western audiences aren't thinking of Mulan as a Bodhisattva who sacrifices her life, livelihood, and wellbeing for the sake of relieving sentient beings from suffering, but as a lost individual struggling to find her place in the world. The relationships in Chu's version are vastly more understandable taken as is, though Western audiences would be missing a lot of Confucian background information and probably not quite understand the level of importance, but they are still fundamentally graspable seeing Mulan as a loyal daughter and sister.
Regardless of what it may be saying to the average listener or story teller beyond pure entertainment value, the original story of Mulan tells a very loud tale of the shifting understanding of Buddhism's gentle and caring nature within Chinese society, but also as a wrathful and protective force when it needs to be. In other words, how the Tuoba sought to be perceived to the Chinese they ruled over.
This would all reverse when the Manchu took over. The Manchu (whose name was changed from "Jurchen" in order to honor the Bodhisattva of Wisdom Manjushri) had maintained close relations (sometimes conflicting, but more often than not allies, vassals, and often as comrades) with the Mongols. And as a fellow nomadic conquest dynasty, the Manchu sought to establish legitimacy and connection with their Yuan predecessors by holding up their scholarship. (The Qing were quick to establish all sorts of connections that made their legitimacy to the Mongol Era practically a straight line: a grand Khuriltai (i.e. election) was held in Urga, electing the Manchu Khaan as the official Khagan of the Mongol steppe, Tibetan Lamas were propitiated and asked for tantric empowerments, just as the Mongol Khans did, and the Forbidden City was established as their residence, and Chinese symbols of legitimacy established.).
Very very late to the party, but it struck me that the 'ideal Confucian' Mulan of the Sui-Tang Romance is very much reminiscent of the sorts of Late Ming loyalist anti-Qing dissidents like Lü Liuliang and Zhang Dai so vividly described by Jonathan Spence in Treason by the Book and Return to Dragon Mountain, respectively. Near the end of the story, Mulan is in a position where she is powerless to stop the depredations of the 'barbarian' monarch as a whole, but is still able to reclaim something for herself, albeit in death – Lü and Zhang's resistance was far more passive, but still took the form of acts of personal, almost primarily self-assuring resistance, as opposed to striking out against the new Manchu state.
Anyway, let's go back. Chu Renhuo was born in 1635 and as a child watched the Manchu invade and conquer China. The war would have been ongoing (but basically over) by the time the book was written in 1675. I can't see this story of the Tang takeover of Sui without seeing the Qing takeover of Ming. (In the same way that, say, Fury a film set in World War II clearly has more to say about the state of war in the 21st Century than anything about World War II itself.) While Buddhism would be fundamental to Chinese society at that point in time, more native Chinese elements sought to reassert themselves in Chinese thought and philosophy during the Ming Dynasty. For example, there was much written about Taoist, Confucian, and (Chinese) Buddhist thought during the Mongol Yuan era, but it was suppressed as "foreign" and "other" during the Ming period, when Song, Tang, and Han era literature and philosophy was rediscovered and held above Mongol-era scholarship and developments.