So I want to make sure I have this right: your manager told you to pay her, personally, $3000, or she will both not allow you to transfer and/or will make fake reports (to whom?) and make it so that you get bad references for employment outside of the organization. Like, she explicitly said "give me $3000 or I will [do these things,]" or is there more context to it?
Thank you for your help , I was having panick attacks cause of her bs and I'm a people pleaser so I very rarely complain and they abuse it a lot , and my last concern was me losing little income I have cause I tried to get better , honestly makes you lose faith in the legal system and makes you belive it's just modern day dare I say slavery with management like this that is ready to ruin you for ego issues unless she really benefits from you, thank you for everything and I really appreciate everyone that took their time to leave a helpful comment .
If you want to record her, you can. Texas is a one-party consent state, so as long as YOU know YOU are recording YOU, you are fine.
Also she just hints at getting rid of you if you don't do what she says , not really "Hey , i want 3k or you are fired next week" , she will say smth along the lines of "What do i get from this , and if you ask for explanation she asks for the amount of money and if u just say no or try to contact her boss (which i don't know anyone that did these but as i said she is capable of whatnot) she will try to get rid of u asap so she saves her ass from the consequences.
She's committing blackmail, a crime. "Give me money or I'll tell people bad things about you." You need to report her or walk away.
Your testimony is evidence. But keep a written log of every time you speak, what is covered in those conversations. Date it, and every time you write in it you should photograph it or scan it using a document system that puts dates on files. Save multiple copies.
I thought of that , but i think they have a policy of not being able to work there for 6 months after quitting , also yeah 7-Eleven isn't smth i can't replace but the Manager at the second store gives regular overtime and has an overall better management and greater prospects to increase wages. I wish i could get better like a job at target or costco but from my experience , good payinh positions are saved for relatives and friends of managers , hiring agents , etc.