I was rewatching the Rocky Horror Picture Show today with my wife and some friends, and I noticed that the liquid in Rocky's vat was rainbow coloured. Now, the movie is filled with queer themes and symbols (in the same scene, for instance, Frank N. Furter has a pink triangle on his lab gown), but, I thought the Pride Flag wasn't invented until 1978, while the movie had been filmed in 1974 and released in 1975 (no idea if there were rainbows in the 1973 stage musical), so that seems anachronistic to me.
You're both right. So, here's the story. I had never really paid attention to my Grandfather's rank until my Mother (his daughter) wanted me to get a veteran's memorial flag made for him. Well, instead of driving out there (since the cemetery is about a 20 minute drive from my house), I just looked up the photo of his headstone on my phone, which is a bottom-of-the-line Samsung Galaxy that I got from Verizon that they don't even sell anymore. So, the quality was not great, and apparently, I embody this old, but still good Thank you both for clearing up this mystery that actually wasn't quite a mystery at all. I really appreciate and value the time and effort that you took out of your day to talk to me. Thank you and I hope you have a great day!
While those were technically League of Nations Mandates and not territorial claims, they were all Class C mandates which meant that independence was to be held off for an indeterminate period of time and that the territories were best ruled directly as integrated parts of the nation's territorial claims/jurisdiction. For people living in these territories, the effect was often greater colonial meddling and control-- Germany had been distant and exercised only limited authority across much of its Pacific holdings-- New Zealand and Australia were much closer at hand and therefore took a more active role.
Hey, thanks a bunch. If you don't mind a follow-up I can clearly map those races to "white", "black", "yellow" and "red" but I don't know which "colour" ""Malay" would be. Would you happen to know that? Thanks.
For instance, after the First World War Australia assumed control over the New Guinea territories of Germany as well as its claim to the Bismarck archipelago, while New Zealand became the administrator of Samoa. To this, we could also add Nauru which fell under the British Flag but was effectively run by the British Phosphate Commission-- a nationalized mining company (formerly Pacific Phosphate Company) jointly governed by Australia, Great Britain, and New Zealand.
Hello, all. I hope this post is permitted, and if not, mods/admins may feel free to take it down without any hard feelings. I just seem to have hit a brick wall when doing some research on my late Grandfather's ranks/ratings. He was a Pharmacist's mate, 3rd class in WWII (in the Navy) and one of the abbreviations that was also placed on his headstone is "CHS." And for the life of me, I cannot find out what "CHS" stands for. The nearest I could find was possibly "Chief Ship's Clerk," but it's a dubious find, at best, and I was hoping I could pick your collective brain to see if any other WWII history buffs either know, or know someone who might know.