So first of all, its important to remember Denmark did have a long-term presence in China before the Opium War. Denmark had had colonies in India since 1620, and the first Danish ship to China arrived in 1676.
Very interesting. I'll sure be reading into the topic a little bit. Actually i find the 'lesser' colonial nations' history very fun to delve into. Recently i've read about the Darien scheme, and how it's failure practically brought end to independent Scotland. They invested 75% of their yearly income on that colonial project! Only to be absolutely sabotaged by England and flat out destroyed by Spain.
Pär Kristoffer Cassel, Grounds of Judgment: Extraterritoriality and Imperial Power in Nineteenth-Century China and Japan (2012).
I think I got that worded in a clumsy way. Qiying's report is only explicit about Denmark being received positively due to their history of trading with China, not about the Danes being useful as mediators or the Qing accepting smaller nations in order to call the shots. I apologize for that confusion.
Sweden largely matched Denmark in terms of its China trade intake through this period up to around 1760, but its mechanisms of trade were slightly different: Copenhagen, being a major financial centre, supplied the Asiatic Company’s silver needs directly, whereas the Swedish East India Company acquired its silver from Cadiz. Things changed in the 1760s, however, with the combination of the Canton trade and the British conquest of Bengal. This played a part in not only the expansion of British trade at Canton, but also Danish and Swedish, as it not only created a new market for India-China trade but also created a new commercial asset: Indian remittances. Borrowed money from British-held Bengal facilitated several aspects of the Canton-era trade, and this was true not just for the British but also the Scandinavians: at its peak in 1776-1784, some 57% of the Asiatic Company’s payments at Canton were facilitated through credit, rather than imported silver or lead; for much of the 1760s-80s, between 30 and 40% the Swedish East India Company's assets at any one time consisted of Bengali loans.
Yes. It was part of a larger process from 1780'es during which the global silver standard gradually disintegrated and caused economic hardship in China. This was caused especially by the depletion of the supply in Spanish America, and of course the British Opium Trade. From the European perspective, smuggling opium to China largely solved the silver problem.