The work itself is remembered for painting a stirring - and completely fictional - picture of Columbus pleading his case to Ferdinand and Isabella in the face of obstinate resistance from the clergy, although in truth, Irving didn't make quite the absolute image that was remembered from it, as the passage in full reads:
Thanks for this awesome answer! I wonder if you can comment on why Irving made up the dramatic confrontation between Columbus and "the Dark Ages" in this way? Of course, the answer may be as simple as "he thought it would sell"; but was there any other motivation at play? I'm a little puzzled at his apparent willingness to just plain fictionalise a "biography" - he seems to be writing something a bit different from what we understand by that term today, and I'm wondering how Irving understood the purpose of his writing.
Thanks for this thorough answer! Since it seems this mythology of Columbus emerged in the 19th century, what were the dominant narratives about Columbus and the roundness of the earth for the.
Does anyone have more info about the other nations’ of the Americas evolving narratives about Columbus? Especially the country named after him(!), and the many other smaller places throughout Latin America.
Further works through the 19th and early 20th century continued to harp on this idea, painting the march of science - truth - of their own era against the stagnation of the old, and there is no sense in cataloging them, and it is instead sufficient to say that within only a few decades of publication, the passage that Irving had inserted into his work had taken on a life of its own, and - despite, as noted, not even being a proper reading of Irving's book - soon enough was near as absolute a fact of the Columbus story as sailing in 1492.
Oh, I fully agree. Why I included that part is that the general opinion of the wide public - and quite forgivable as that was the old academic history 'fact' - was that Eratosthenes gave "correct" value, often given as something like his value was <1% error, which most likely wasn't the case as it depends on the value of stades he used. I also want to stress out that Eratosthenes had good mathematics, even good astronomical measurement, but his "error" - if there was one - came from inability to accurately get distance between two distant places. Depending how much his estimate of distance between two cities was off- the value he suspiciously gave as a very round number of 5000 stades - is how much his entire calculation was off.