Slightly longer answer: Fascism isn't an internally consistent political ideology, it's more of a framing of a type of authoritarian politicking. There are a LOT of great answers on this sub, including /u/blue_potato7 , the entire mod team , and /u/klesk_vs_xaero .
Sorgonà, G. - STORIOGRAFIA DEL FASCISMO E DIBATTITO SULL'ANTIFASCISMO. - Studi Storici, (2014), 55(1), 213-225.
A reinforcement of traditional social traditionalism, including anti-feminism, racism, and severe restrictions on religious freedom.
Ventrone, A. - Il fascismo non è una causa perduta. Ricordi e rimozioni nei vinti della Repubblica sociale italiana. - Meridiana, 2017 (88), 133-154.
Any sufficiently socially conservative totalitarian state that operates without economic ideology is generally going to fall into the fascist category in my eyes.
Roberts, David D., et al. - Comments on Roger Griffin, 'The Primacy of Culture: The Current Growth (Or Manufacture) of Consensus within Fascist Studies' Journal of Contemporary History, vol. 37, no. 2, 2002, pp. 259–274.
Fascism is essentially political theater. It differs from the other political boogeyman modern politicians argue their enemies follow, communism, in that fascism doesn't have a guiding manifesto, or even a real intellectual, theoretical base. Fascism frames the world, politics, and history as a perpetual, neverending struggle between different human factions. These factions might be religious, ethnic, racial, but the important thing is that humans are born on to their team, and they can never, ever change teams. One team will dominate others, and the best way to engage with the world is to wise up and work with your team to make sure that you're the ones dominating.
Olascoaga, O. - Presencia del neofascismo en las democracias europeas contemporáneas - Reis: Revista Española De Investigaciones Sociológicas, (2018), (162), 3-19.
Muammar Gaddafi took power in Libya in the '60s after a coup against the western-friendly Idris dynasty, ruling by decree. He was a pan-Arab nationalist. Pan-Arab nationalism is an interesting beast. Essentially, it argues that all of the Middle East, Turkey, and North Africa are one big group. They all speak Arabic (though regional dialects are often dissimilar to the point of not being cross-fluent, similar to arguing that everyone in China speaks Chinese), Islam is a dominant and unifying religion, and many fundamentalists would like to unify all of the Muslim world under a single Caliphate, who would be both temporal and spiritual leader of Muslim lands.
Painter, B. - Renzo De Felice and the Historiography of Italian Fascism. - The American Historical Review, (1990) 95(2), 391-405.