Hi! Similar questions to yours have been asked here before, and I have to say, the overall tenor of the answers by those with the relevant expertise is that Duncan is at least highly misleading. People in general like to look to the past to inform their understanding of the present, but what this often results in is a very skewed understanding of the past. People will try to make their views of the past fit in with modern conceptions of politics, etc.
I counted more than 30 academic reviews in JSTOR from the first three years the book was out, including from Journal of American Studies, The Georgia Historical Quarterly, Annals of the Association of American Geographers, Ethnohistory, The Journal of American Folklore, American Studies, Reviews in American History, Albion: A Quarterly Journal Concerned with British Studies, Journal of American Ethnic History, Social History, Population and Development Review, The New England Quarterly, The Journal of Interdisciplinary History, The American Historical Review, Contemporary Sociology, The Wilson Quarterly, American Studies International, Journal of Social History, Journal of the Early Republic, History, The Journal of Southern History, and several others I got tired of copying and pasting (sorry for the sort of random order—that’s the order JSTOR gave them to me in).
I agree with what /u/riftsweeper1 has said, and he's (she's?) linked to an older discussion of Duncan's book (must I call it that?) that I did. Particularly important I think is his point about the distinction between internet history and academic history, not only in content but especially in methods and goals. Popular history is potentially a great thing, but popular history as it is most commonly done is fundamentally established on a misunderstanding of what history is and what historians do, to the point often of being not only anti-intellectual but aggressively so. I've written about and before. Both those posts are strictly speaking on podcasters and "edutainers," specifically Dan Carlin, but since Mike Duncan not only got his start as an alternative to Carlin but still uses the same methodology they hold just as well here, if not better, since Duncan has taken the step that Carlin declined of presenting himself through the publication of a book as an entry into what you might call the legitimate circle of historians (whatever the hell that would mean). I think all of this is the really important thing that has to be done and that /u/riftsweeper1 has already started, namely evaluating what the hell it is that people like Duncan do and how that fits in with popular history and academic history at large.
I haven't. Woodard happily admits in interviews and if I recall correctly, in the book itself, that he cribbed off of Albion's Seed. I figured that if Woodard's argument based off of it was so flawed, there wasn't a great need to go back and read the original source material. Especially since I don't know all that much about early modern cultures in Britain, so I'm probably not equipped to parse through his arguments.