It's an icbm. Not a particularly special one beside the ability to do fractional orbital bombardment, just a missile. It's capable of lifting ten tons into a ballistic trajectory, meaning it can deliver nuclear payloads up to 15 light mirv warheads. The rockets speed and range have nothing to do with warhead yield.
No army in the world can operate under such conditions, for another example of what negative morale does look at the Afghanistan army, Trump negotiated US pullout and the Afghanistan elite were preparing to use their troops as sacrificial pawns to buy time to extract and move as wealth abroad as possible, the troops said fuck that and left their positions en mass because they like being alive and they weren't going to fight to the dead to save a bunch of corrupt assholes.
Yeah we all saw them. What i inelegantly wanted to note is that those protests are way too few and unpopular to imply a population that is majorly against the war.
Yeah, it's evident from the widespread demonstrations, strikes and public unrest that the majority of them are against the war. Wait, what? They don't have any widespread demonstrations, strikes and public unrest? They support the war except if they are personally mobilized? They still wish every Ukrainian dead? Who would have thought????
Russian/Soviet designation of missiles and other various classes of systems are usually something like 9K38 (igla manpads, nato designation SA-18 grouse), or maybe a letter + number like R-27 (air to air missile, nato designation AA-10 alamo).
The big reason is diminishing returns. A 50mt bomb only has 50% more damage than a 25mt bomb. Better off with 2 25mt bombs, you get more destruction and they're easier to handle logistically. No special delivery platforms, no special transports.
90% of the Russian troops went to the front to carry military exercises and be intimidating, they only learned that they would actually have to invade Ukraine 36 hours (give or take a couple) before the "Special Putin" operation started, the one exception appears to be a couple of VDV brigades.