It is an endemic problem, and one caused by any number of factors, from language barriers through chauvinism to politics. There isn't going to be any answer as to "how much", simply because such a calculation would be essentially impossible, nor would simply listing examples be all that constructive, but I will use one example which I think illustrates a number of the historiographical issues that are in play here, borrowing from an answer I wrote some time back that was specifically about historiography of the Eastern Front in World War II, with some slight modifications related to what you are asking here.
Sure thing. John A. Lynn, "The Embattled Future of Academic Military History", The Journal of Military History Vol. 61/4 (Oct., 1997), pp. 777-789.
On top of that, Russians themselves dealt with subject peoples on their imperial fringe (especially the Caucasus and Central Asia) through a heavily Orientalist lens, to the point that those people themselves internalized this, with Stalin himself often referring to himself as a "mere Asiatic".
Thank you! Could you give me the name of the book? A quick google and ebay search didn’t help much, sadly.
It's even more complicated because a lot of that Orientalism got internalized as well - there is the whole longstanding debate between between Westernizers and Eurasianists as to how "Asiatic" Russian culture and institutions are.
Glantz, David M. & Jonathan House. When Titans Clashed: How the Red Army Stopped Hitler. University Press of Kansas, 1995.
What is your opinion on the accusations made by some of the "military military historians" like John Lynn, which claims that the "New Military History" approach focuses too much on the social and cultural aspect of the military that it ignores their fundamental purpose: the actual warfare?
Meyer, Kurt. Grenadiers: The Story Of Waffen SS General Kurt 'Panzer' Meyer. trans. Michael Mende & Robert J. Edwards. Stackpole Books, 2005.
In a broader view, viewing ancient American history as something "American" and not something as "other" possibly might help to increase the value of such sites among other Americans ... there's a local movement to have Cahokia made into a National Park (I believe it's currently owned by the state of Illinois). A broad understanding of American history that sees indigenous peoples as integral is probably a good and necessary thing in its own right (as long as it's done right and doesn't veer into appropriation), although on the other hand my (vague) understanding is that Mexican history is more or less taught in schools that way, and as mentioned there is still a lot of destruction of ancient Mexican sites.
von Manstein, Erich. Lost Victories: The War Memoirs of Hitler's Most Brilliant General. trans. Anthony G. Powell. foreward B.H. Liddell-Hart. Zenith Press, 2004.
Again, none of that is really shocking to academic historians, and the works cited are more popular histories, but the fact that these are frames of reference that very few Americans think in is indicative that even in American history, there is much room for broadening popular horizons and filling in gaps that are being "missed out".
Raus , Erhard. Panzer Operations: The Eastern Front Memoir Of General Raus, 1941-1945. trans. Steven H. Newton. Da Capo Press, 2003.
I'll add a bit to u/Georgy_K_Zhukov's discussion of Soviet military history with some other parts of Russian/Soviet/Eurasian historiography (for reference, here is a lenhier discussion on the subject I wrote a while back ).
L.I. Brezhnev of course was General Secretary at that point, and in that capacity had overseen the partial rehabilitation of Zhukov and his legacy, allowing him to again partake in public life, be recognized for his military contributions, and most importantly, publish his memoir. As you might suspect, there is... very little likelihood that the Deputy Commander-in-Chief actually thought it important to consult with an Army level Commissar about military matters on his visit, and you would be correct. A big part of Brezhnev's decision to bring Zhukov back from exile was in order to bask in the reflected glow of the war hero, basically allowing him to be a prop of the regime, but not actually be politically active again, and part of that was this little mention. Damned if I can find the quote just now, but Zhukov is reportedly said to have remarked in private something along the lines of that it didn't matter since it was a small price for him to pay, and people reading it would be smart enough to see through to the meta-context of it.