This is an interesting question because it forces us to examine not only the creation of historical myths but also the way that those myths were actively used by kings and their descendants as propaganda and justification. Such processes were certainly at play in medieval Scotland, and indeed, historians are still working to unravel the truth about the origins of the kingdom of Dál Riata and its rulers today. This is because the only real sources we have that discuss these figures are medieval Irish and Scottish chronicles, which were themselves often written as instruments of propaganda, officially commissioned or sponsored by particular rulers, bishops, or nobles, or dedicated to them in order to curry favor. Thus, leaving the fanciful myths aside (for instance, that Britain was conquered by the king of Albania and Brute of Troy, a descendant of the Trojan hero Aeneas), the "facts" contained within these sources must be critically assessed for how factual they actually were and what motivated the person writing these accounts to do so.
Let's take England. The House of Wessex ruled Wessex and England (such as it was) until such time as the Danish king Sweyn invaded and simply took over. The Danish line and the Wessex line went back and forth a few times until Edward the Confessor, a Wessex king, died with no heir. Several people took a shot at the throne: a high-ranking Anglo-Saxon earl with blood ties to both the Danish and Wessex royals, a king of Norway with (supposed) ties to the previous Danish rulers, a (nearly-sovereign-already) duke of Normandy who was a cousin to the previous king, and a fellow who was technically next in line by blood but who had only recently been discovered in Hungary.
A few patterns emerge. First, justification was often given in divine terms. In pre-Christian Scotland, the royal house was descended from some divine figure that had fathered a child on an Irish princess, whose own royal status already gave added legitimacy to the status/rule of her son. In Christian Scotland, rule was endorsed by God, and the people. Malcolm III was married to a literal saint and his rule was posthumously endorsed by this association; indeed, St. Margaret's sons used her canonization as a way to legitimize their own rules following their wresting the crown from their uncle Donald. During the Wars of Independence, the political community penned the Declaration of Arbroath which stated that a king must also have the approval of his subjects, and that if he ruled poorly, those subjects had the right to resist and remove him from rule.