All of these factors together presented an interesting picture for Soviet authorities to contemplate. The Church had made a strong case for its relevance as a tool in stoking the fires of nationalism, and the awareness of suppressed belief held by much of the population, expressed not only by those given allowance in German-held territory but also in questions coming from the Red Army itself, couldn’t be ignored entirely. For the first two years of the war, the Soviet’s official policy was in essence to turn a blind-eye to the Church, allowing it to increase its visibility without any real, official recognition of what was going on.
In the post-Soviet period, the Church has seen something of a revival, freed from the Soviet thumb, and its place in the memory of the war has increased for some as a replacement of creed for the dead Communist faith in the narrative of the conflict. But in the end, its role, while important, shouldn’t be overstated. They were both an important motivator for patriotic mobilization and a prop for foreign diplomacy, but that could only go so far. Some narratives place it in the driver’s seat, forcibly carving out a new place within Soviet society, but in reality, they were never able to challenge Soviet authority in a meaningful way. Certainly they benefited from the wartime experience, and to be sure it was a policy shift that dismayed many party-stalwarts, but in the end it was pragmatic opportunism, changes only to the degree that Stalin’s political needs dovetailed with the Church itself, and the Church’s existence would only continue to the degree that it could serve, and remain subservient to, state interests.
The Church no longer as necessary a tool for stoking the flames of patriotism, and the descending Cold War removing any concern about Western opinions on religious liberties, some of the anti-religious campaigns that were curtailed in 1942 began to be revived by the end of the decade, and of course as already noted, open belief had always been the assured death of a career in the party. Under Kruschev, more serious persecutions would begin again in 1959, although they would never come close to those of the 1930s and the Church’s low point. But that moves beyond our scope here.
A prominent figure you have mentioned here about the re emergence and acceptance of the Russian Orthodox Church by the Soviet government and one of the rarest clergy member that didn't end up in gulags, metropolitan Sergei, a thing I want understand about him is is it he a collaborator of the Soviet or a puppet of the Soviet?
Reese, Roger R. (2011). Why Stalin’s Soldiers Fought: The Red Army’s Military Effectiveness in World War II. University of Kansas Press.