In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Well. It’s a bit like asking someone to take money out from a bank vault for you and insisting (lying) that you have an account there when you don’t. The lie doesn’t somehow excuse away the fact you’re just asking someone to steal for you.
Unfortunately, no. They have to prove that Trump had criminal intent and knowingly asked Raffensberger to commit a crime. If Trump genuinely believed what he said--that there were fraudulent votes, and that he was asking to Raffensberger find enough of the fraudulent votes to prove he won--then he was not guilty of Georgia's "solicitation to commit election fraud" crime.
Why? Why is it like this? Why can’t I get 3 special grand juries and years of freedom when I do something like steal bread to feed my family, but this guy gets away with stealing the most secret documents, attempting to rig an election, and endless mountains of financial fraud? Why? Explain why WITHOUT resorting to “dur hur, that’s how it is. Be rich and powerful and commit all the crimes you want!”.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
At the same time, there is verifiable public evidence that Trump committed crimes on state and federal levels, yet all we ever see is the DoJ dragging its feet and a special grand jury with no teeth, as well as a congressional committee with no teeth writing s report that Garland will throw in a drawer in the DoJ basement, meaning Trump will never see the inside of a jail, ever.
I wish it were that easy. Georgia has the burden of proof to demonstrate that Trump's intention was for Raffensberger to commit election fraud. While that may seem obvious to anyone with ears, his words technically say something else. Technically he said he believed there were thousands of fraudulent Biden votes and shredded Trump votes, and he wanted Raffensberger to find those votes to get a more accurate count. Proving Trump intended for Raffensberger to fabricate fake votes would require a confession from Trump or testimony and corroborating evidence from someone in his inner circle.
I presume the grand jury had a lot of evidence to examine beyond the phone call: hopefully there is a preponderance of evidence demonstrating that Trump definitively knew his fraud allegations were false and knew he was asking Raffensberger to commit a felony. Because ultimately proving Trump's mental state at the time of the call is going to win or lose the case, no matter how obvious it looks from the outside.