In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Seriously. They are trying to get the word “homophobic” exempted from being considered hate speech as the current interpretation (e.g., hateful), according to them, infringes on their religious convictions. That’s right; they want to be free to incite hatred against a minority group, who it should be noted, are fellow Americans.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Okay so at some point some asshole (well 18th centurish anthropologist/archaeologist/grave robber/genocidal imperialist pedophile, probably, lines tended to blur for Europeans of the time) found ancient Atlantis myths, and as the 18th-19th century was prone to doing, turned some ancient text saying 'there were these people who came from the ocean who we traded with who seemed to have their shit together, like great boats and top notch pottery and shit, but they're gone now and we don't know what the fuck happened' and 'humanity probably evolved from some common origin and there are ancient cultures and proto indo European cultures migrating up from Africa from whom most of the languages we know descended' into 'there is an ancient precursor race to all humans that were superior and perfect from whom all art and scientific knowledge flows, basically ancient aliens/genetic memory(which is, I cannot stress enough; not a thing; the human genome is about 1/10 the file size of, like, a rice or peanut genome) style, of whom we can be only pale imitations, and every living person is just a degenerate failson (remember; women weren't people) of these glorious golden gods, in unbelievably fucking racist ways that were going to use to justify all sorts of awful shit' of and obviously white Europeans were the closest and overall best. Because of course.
"Pro rural" except when it comes to primarily supporting wealthy urban elites, multinational media conglomerates, devastation of rural infrastructure and economies, development of rural educational infrastructure...
Except there was a problem. All the anthropology at the root of this was talking about people from places much more equatorial than Europe. Like, Mediterranean at absolute farthest north. Which means they definitely wouldn't have been white. Fuck, they might've been Africans Or dark skinned Asians The horror!
"Fiscally responsible" except in the case of subsidies to unsustainable industries, ignoring climate change's economic impact, funding for programs to alleviate costs for raising families, investing in education to compete in a global economy, debt ceiling negotiations...
So the Nazis had this idea. That the German people (or some of them anyway. These guys got pretty hard core with their racism, and they rreeeealy liked taxonomies) were the closest thing to the Santa Claus people, and all they had to do was enough inbreeding and genocide to Fullmetal alchemist themselves up a generation of north pole functionally-santa-claus supermen.
I beg everyone. We are wasting effort focusing so much on gotchas, and instead focus on getting out the vote. Focus on right-wing violence, treason, tolerance of domestic terrorists, and apathy for real problems affecting middle and lower-class Americans. Pointing out hypocrisy does almost nothing - it arguably makes it worse. The people you accuse don't care. Reactive discourse like "Trump says X, but does Y" is not a viable strategy for promoting political agendas. We need to focus on issues, and not the hypothetical positions of our opponents. Promote the bolstering of our voting rights, climate change readiness/mitigation, infrastructure development, education, worker's rights, non-violence, and affordable healthcare. Promote issues that affect the working class, and repeat these points often. It's a waste of effort to engage them on their talking points if they are based on false presuppositions and they care not for evidence, unless we also intentionally divert the conversation away from their dishonesty and toward the common good. We should make a concerted effort to frame them as the enemies of the common good.