When the Founding Fathers got deep into writing the constitution, they came up against the problem of slavery Most ( Jefferson, Madison, Jay, Monroe, Hamilton ) at least admitted it was an evil thing. But the issue threatened to divide the fragile new country, and so they temporized, hoped it would end itself. Instead, by 1820 slavery was earning huge profits for enslavers, and the south hoped to set up its slave economy in the new territories to the west. This was bitterly opposed by northern states. In order to keep things from falling apart, compromises were worked out, the most important being the Missouri Compromise of 1820, which set an upper limit to slave states at the 36ยบ 30' parallel. Divisions continued to grow, however: plenty of Northerners felt that the Mexican-American War was started only to gain more slave territory for the South.
That doesnt make much sense to me. That sounds like a major victory to me. Shouldnt this actually do the opposite, e.g. make civil war less likely? Or at the very least make the north secede, not the south!
But it's kind of interesting as well how the shaping of the modern presidency kind of skipped Taft and then picked up again with Wilson, who also was very consequential to the modern presidency (he basically literally wrote the book on how a modern president should act prior to being elected, and things like the president addressing Congress were long-forgotten practices until he revived them). He also shaped how the US interacted with the world arguably long after his immediate efforts with the League of Nations failed, and made big strides in federal legislation with things like establishing the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Reserve, income taxation, and efforts towards eight hour day work laws, restrictions on child labor, and federal workers compensation. But I think the dark side of his presidency, notably the white supremacist side, has really come to the fore in recent years, and so his ranking has fallen quite a bit (it also doesn't help that a lot of his accomplishments also get attacked from the political right, so if you dislike income taxes, business regulation, and the Federal Reserve you definitely won't like Wilson). It's just interesting that the same process doesn't seem to have happened with Teflon Teddy, at least not yet.