1967 israel won the war, and unilaterally created the status quo by giving control over the mosque to jordan with some other rules, again, self imposed.
Exactly. I mean a lot of people on this thread are just kind of reflexively doing the "Israeli did it, so it must be bad" thing. I mean, come on. No matter what your feelings on the conflict, getting mad because a guy dared to walk near a mosque for 15 minutes is pretty ridiculous.
Exactly. Are you under the impression that the Temple's destruction means that the site of its ruins are somehow not holy to Jews anymore? Sorry my dude, your window of opportunity to convince Jews to "get over it, the ruins aren't that important" was before we spent centuries in diaspora venerating it as the holiest site in Judaism.
What do you mean? You know why he did it. It's kind of a reverse provocative statement. I don't know, but I think he's showing how ridiculous it all is.
Noel was by the black september org, a splinter from the plo but it wasnt under it's, it operated independently and often against the orders from arafat which eventually led to it's termination just two years after it was founded, the org was literally founded so people who just wanted to do combat operations do them without involving the rest of the plo as it fucked them over the last time.
Okay. You've convinced me. You're right about everything. Walking near a mosque was hideous, outrageous provocation. Arafat wasn't a bad guy. Thanks and enjoy your day.
I am not saying it is a crime for him to walk at al aqsa, it is a crime for him to walk anywhere outside of a cell, him going to al aqsa with escorts is merely to provoke a reaction to strenhen his popularity in his extremist base and it worked, i can't think of less controversial figures getting the same reaction except when all muslims are removed from the yards and barred entering.
That's pretty much my take. It's a weird thing about this conflict. People pick a side and then they defend absolutely anything that side does, no matter what. I have no problem saying I do not like this new right-wing government. I also have no problem saying that it is absolutely ridiculous to get mad about a man walking near a mosque.
Yeah, I mean, it's just objectively hard to say that somebody walking near a mosque is a terrible, world-shattering thing. I think that was one point of the walk, to show how ridiculous this is.
For me anyway, it just looks ridiculous. There are real problems in the world. Actual wars. People hungry, you know? At some point, the world has to stop indulging this stuff. Enough already. My reaction anyway. YMMV.
If Jews had conquered Mecca and built a synagogue over the ruins of the Kaaba, do you think it would be reasonable to say to Muslims that they should be satisfied with simply being allowed in the outer courtyard, while we claim the core of their most holy place as our own?
Wtf you talking about? Not discussing high ground, israel is certainly no better giving medals to people who killed children and naming enormous parks after people who led massacres in the thousands. The topic is that the problem isn't the visit but who is visiting, imagine if al baghdadi or one of his admirers entered the vatican or the cathedral of cordoba with armed guards and started shooting and beating protesters. Or if a man hanging a picture bin laden barged into the white house, this is what is happening. He is the type of people to call for the demolition of al aqsa, the expulsion of palestinians, the type who pulls a gun at arabs at the slightest disputes and get away with it, the type who would try to move palestinians out of their houses at gun point, the type who would ask the police to shoot protesters, that is the tip of the iceberg regarding him.
Yes. Arafat murdered Americans. Among countless others, he was responsible for the deaths of United States Ambassador to the Sudan Cleo A. Noel, Jr., along with Noel's Chargé d ' Affaires, George Curtis Moore, murdered when a Black September cell attacked the Saudi embassy in Khartoum.