Interestingly enough the ship was repainted in in 1816, and when efforts were made to "restore" it in the early 20th century, the paint applied was a very bright yellow and black -- research undertaken later showed that the original yellow was probably simply an ochre color, closer to what it is today. The ship is still probably too orange -- research into Nelson's orders regarding the paint before Trafalgar says that it was white mixed with yellow at a ratio of 6:1 -- and it may be closer to what a French warship of the time period would have looked like, based on the records we have from e.g. Walter Fawkes after the battle of the Nile in 1798.
Additionally, as positions that arguably had the most knowledge of the specific ship, retaining them likely helped with "institutional knowledge"--the bosun and carpenter would know the nitty-gritty details of the vessel in a way that would be difficult if those positions rotated.
3. Whilst there is primary source evidence of Nelson’s desire to employ a pale yellow on the topsides of the ships of the Mediterranean fleet, the evidence is also conclusive in confirming that the proposal was rejected. No manuscript evidence supports the mixing of a shade with more white than yellow.
Regarding the second, the main issue we have with how messes were served is that the information has come down to us from the past is fairly incomplete, but it seems that men would likely not only eat the rations issued on a given day, but would spread them out over the course of the week (the three "banyan" days where men only had bread and oatmeal issued are a good example of this).
4. The evidence from Victory’s carpenter’s accounts suggests very strongly that the shade of yellow employed was obtained by mixing white and yellow in equal parts.".
So the idea of "classes" is a bit retrofitted onto the past -- although ships might be ordered to a certain "class" they were built in individual shipyards by individual shipwrights and while the ones coming out of certain yards could be similar, there could be wide variants in the ships themselves. (This continues today -- all US carriers are built at Newport News Shipbuilding, but USS Harry S. Truman has had so many modifications to its design that it can barely make 29 knots, compared to Nimitz's 33 or so.) I'd refer you to on classes of ships.
Unless I'm mistaken, the findings of the paint analysis undertaken on the Victory yielded that pinkish-orange color that she's painted with currently, which is believed to be the most accurate representation of her Trafalgar colors. It's thought that surplus red (vermillion, ochre? I can't remember) paint supplies were mixed in with her yellow ochre supplies to prolong them, resulting in the more reddish tint she's displayed with today.