I don't get what argument you're trying to make. I am well aware who and what Lukashenko is(that's not misinformation, in case you think I was referring to that part?) but I don't think Putin wants to take over the country at this point It would just create more problems and there is little to gain. 40,000 potential soldiers that probably won't fight for him.
“On the instructions of Russian President Vladimir Putin upon his return from the latest CSTO summit, the Russian military intelligence may attempt in the coming days to pursue a scenario involving either an assassination attempt targeting Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko or its imitation, with the aim of ultimately intimidating the latter and prompting him to finally order his troops to directly engage in the war on Ukraine, alongside Russian troops,” sources report.
I was referring to the article. I wrote 'intelligence' The article is talking about intelligence, OP just posted a bit of widely known information, which is not 'intelligence' and which is not disputed. So you're disagreeing with something that nobody said but bless your heart.
“In both scenarios, be it an unsuccessful or successful attempt on Aleksandr Lukashenko, fabricated ‘evidence’ will be presented of the ‘involvement of Ukraine and Poland under the leadership of NATO intelligence,’ which will offer a formal pretext for the further participation of Belarusian troops in combat operations on Ukrainian soil,” the report reads.
Then an information flow based command system. Rapid transfer of Data , courtesy of Elon, to the command corps with Nato/USA co-ordinated interpretation and response. Drones and jammers, Himars and all the rest.
This could testify to Moscow’s choice of attempting to gain full control over the CSTO member states “by ensuring their integration into Russia or forcing them to join a new version of the Soviet Union.”.
Yes. and that's the point. There's too much completely irrational moves from Putin and his clique. One after another, increasingly stupid and self-hurting. Really, nobody could believe they'll start a full-scale war, yet they did.