And what exactly do you think will happen? Ukraine invading Russia and everything is turning out great? Russia is then being invaded/attacked an will probably start nukes. All these people here saying Ukraine should attack more of Russia are not using their brains correctly.
Article 52 of the Geneva convention states "In so far as objects are concerned, military objectives are limited to those objects which by their nature, location, purpose or use make an effective contribution to military action and whose total or partial destruction, capture or neutralization, in the circumstances ruling at the time, offers a definite military advantage.".
Russia's infrastructure (electricity, railways, defense manufacturing, etc.) is critical to Russia's ongoing military campaign and, therefore, those are valid targets. The fact that the destruction of those targets will hurt Russia's civilians is unfortunate, but that is Russia's fault, not Ukraine's. Demanding Ukraine spare those targets out of some sense of moral high ground is childish, and in all probability it could lead to far more death and destruction by allowing the war to continue on longer than it otherwise would.
Well. They are Russian made. Everything made in Russia is loud. Their cigarettes, the Lada, their politicians. Have you ever seen Lavrov or their UN delegate? Man, they are loud. And full of shit.
“Electric power stations are generally recognized to be of sufficient importance to a State’s capacity to meet its wartime needs of communication, transport, and industry so as usually to qualify as military objectives during armed conflicts.”.
“Electric power stations are generally recognized to be of sufficient importance to a State’s capacity to meet its wartime needs of communication, transport, and industry so as usually to qualify as military objectives during armed conflicts.”.
It would be sad. Many things in war are sad. Russian civilians freezing to death because their government keeps pursuing its unjust war against Ukraine would not come close to being the saddest thing to happen in this war. If Russia wanted to avoid that outcome it should not have invaded Ukraine and should not have deliberately targeted Ukrainian civilians and infrastructure countless times.