For those who have questions regarding any media outlets being posted on this subreddit, please click to review our details as to our approved domains list and outlet criteria.
👋 Hey stranger! Noticed you inquiring about ease of access to Pentobarbital and Nitrogen as well as Carbon Monoxide poisoning from automobile exhaust in a few different replies. Perhaps it’s just morbid curiosity, and if so feel free to carry on, but on the off chance it’s more than that and you’re suffering and/or looking for a way out, please know there are people who care and want to help. Please reach out to folks and let them know how you’re feeling, it can make a world of difference not just for you, but for those you may not realize would hurt if you were gone. Be well.
Execution is against the doctor code of ethics, doctors are literally bound by their profession to not involve themselves in any sort of facilitated killing, you’ll get your medical license revoked so no doctor (or at least, no non sketchy doctors) would ever touch a prison execution.
no, . he could stroke out, fall over, and shit his pants live on tv and his cult would have a half dozen conspiracy theories about how he was murdered by the deep state before they could cut to commercial. same thing if the fried chicken and diet coke kills him in his sleep. it doesn't matter. any conspiracy theory they invent will make him a martyr no matter what, because that's what they need for their "narrative" to make sense. literally, over half of republicans already believe the 2020 election was stolen. he's already a martyr to them. at least we can use him make a statement to the rest of the terrorist leaders. that there are unavoidable consequences for trying to overthrow our democracy.
as long as he breathes, he threatens our democracy. he's a russian asset who leads a terrorist party. he has committed crimes that no pleb possibly can. can you or i disenfranchise 350M people by ending our democracy? no. can he? yes. he tried to. very hard. can you or i murder a half million people by spreading misinformation and conspiracy theories? no. can he? yes. he did. that's a level of crime that only a few people can commit. those people should pay a price not available for lesser crimes.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !