Hi there - we're happy to approve your question related to your novel, and we are happy for people to answer. However, we should warn you that many flairs have become reluctant to answer questions for aspiring novelists, based on past experience: some aspiring novelists have a tendency to try to pump historians for trivia while ignoring the bigger points they were making, while others have a tendency to argue with historians when the historical reality does not line up with what's needed for a particular scene or characterization. Please respect the answers of people who have generously given you their time, even if it's not always what you want to hear.
Kunsmanaite, Jurgita. 'Widows, Property, and Law in Lithuania and Some Other Countries'. In: Regional Variations in Matrimonial Law and Custom in Europe, 1150-1600, ed. Mia Korpipla, pp. 99-116. Leiden: Brill, 2011.
To some extent the relations with Finns in the sagas (to the limited extent they're present) is as one might expect from other evidence; we know of frequent contacts and raiding and trading between Finland and Norse peoples (particularly from Gotland and east Sweden) from the Viking Age and into the 12 and 13th centuries. Or even farther back given Finnish loanwords of proto-Norse orgins (e.g. _kuningas_ and _juusto_).
Korpela, Jukka. The World of Ladoga: Society, Trade, Transformation and State Building in the Eastern Fennoscandian Boreal Forest Zone c. 1000-1555. Berlin: Lit, 2008.
Although today's historians are pretty skeptical to whether the crusade of Saint Erik (1150s) ever happened, Swedish jarls _were_ starting to make inroads into Finland Proper by a few decades later, which we know from a papal letter of 1171 demanding the Swedes do more to protect the Christians there and convert the rest, claiming they're only going back to their pagan ways as soon as they leave. But it is only after Birger Jarl's crusades (1240) that Finland comes under secure Swedish rule. Karelia is probably _not_ affected by the Swedish eastern expansion in this time period. It's in the Aura area that the first churches and dioscese are created. (at Nousiainen).
As for the property thing, it is also known that the principle of property division was different between medieval Scandinavian countries (including Finland, Eastern Land Province of late medieval the kingdom of Sweden) and Eastern Europe, including 16th century Lithuania, and I honestly have no idea which was closer to the 12th century Finnish society. In the former, the widow was still to have one-third or a half of the joint property of the couple. On the other hand, the 16th century Lithuanian Statute assigns the window with usufruct of some part of the husband's property (Cf. Kunsmanaite 2011: 108-113). In any case, she could at least 'make use of' part (33% seemed to be norm even if she had no child) of the husband's property in some form, independent of their children. Thus, I wonder whether there was also a similar principle existed in pre-Christian Finnish society in the 12th century......