Hello. It appears that your post has a mistaken assumption relating to the American Indian Genocide(s) that occurred in the Americas. This topic is often controversial and can lead to inaccurate information. This message is not intended to provide you with all of the answers, but simply to address some of the basic facts, as well as genocide denialism in this regard, and provide a short list of introductory reading. Because this topic covers a large area of study, actions of the United States will be highlighted. There is always more that can be said, but we hope this is a good starting point for you.
There was plenty of racism toward Native Americans that “justified” killing them, particularly in the 19th century, and while we associate the modern term with focused and intentional slaughter of a people for political/economic/cultural reasons, I think the term genocide is appropriate here because killing Natives was often focused and intentional. It just took a long time.
One of the primary methods of denial is the over severity of diseases introduced into the Americas after the arrival of the colonizers, effectively turning these diseases into ethopoeic scapegoats responsible for the deaths of Indigenous Peoples. While it is true that disease was a huge component of the depopulation of the Americas, often resulting in up to a 95% mortality rate for many communities and meaning some communities endured more deaths from disease, these effects were greatly exacerbated by actions of colonization.
Thank you for this answer! This is very insightful. If you don't mind, what part of what I said was incorrect? I would like to address this so I don't say it again.
In 1864, the accounts of a notable massacre of Native women and children at Sand Creek in Colorado territory showed that outright racial motivations for killing Natives were now a part of American culture, as over 700 men were willing to slaughter and mutilate even defenseless and friendly Natives.
2. The physical element which includes five acts described in sections a, b, c, d and e. A crime must include both elements to be called "genocide.".
Racism/hatred toward Natives was less prevalent in the 17th century colonial times because such a huge proportion of Native Americans had already died from European diseases before the English or French had really gotten established there.
1. The mental element, meaning the "intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as such", and.