What do historians think of "pop-nonfiction?" I wound up not pursuing a degree in history (goddamn was my uni's history department underfunded) so most of the reading I wind up doing tends to be broader mass-market nonfiction. Stuff like: Eric Cline's 1177 BC; Tom Holland's Rubicon; Mary Beard's SPQR; Richard Rubin's The Last of the Doughboys; and the ever-widening glut of David McCullough biographies; etc., etc.
Certainly apocryphal. The first record of the story seems to date to 1828, and there is no primary source attestation.
Of course, as every neat foundation story, the constitution of what became Normandy was both less smooth and less one-sided : rather than a brutal conquest over helpless Franks, it involved as much local negotiations than battle, back-and-forthing in and out of France (including in England according Dudo) and a "long establishment" and familiarization of Rollo in the region in what ended up being the last, most successful and least Scandinavian Viking establishment.
Thanks for the tips! The very last time I visited a Barnes and Noble (and y'all can probably guess when this was) I turned around and walked right out after spotting (in the history section) a book with a title to the effect of, "America's Oldest Foe: A History of The U.S.-France Relationship.".
The flowery style is expected from an hagiographic work, although now considered much less unreliable than it was held since the XIXth century : Dudo describes there Normans taking possession of the region, fulfilling a vision Rollo previously received in Danemark (HN; VII) and legitimized not only by right of conquest and trough the bravery of Normans, or the desertion of the land due to Norman raiding (including Rollo's described alternatively as merciless but honourable in a pagan way and respectful of the church) but also due to the anticipation of Rollo's baptism announced since his vision in Dacia (sic.) that is Danemark.
I'm going to do a Bachelor and Master in History, and as I already have a Master in another field in the humanities, so I'm fairly confident about succeeding (my uni offers a Bachelor in a single year for people who already have a Masters). I'd like to do a PhD also, but I've heard that those positions are especially competitive in history, and I don't consider myself to be an above-average researcher or writer. To what extent is this feasible?
As foundation narrative goes, however, the choice focusing on this bold claim and sentence to mark the beginning of a Norman entity makes sense in a context of regionalist historiography taking its roots (as national historiographies) in a romantic and medieval origin-story.
See: Schrader, Arthur. ""The World Turned Upside Down": A Yorktown March, or Music to Surrender By." American Music 16, no. 2 (1998): 180-216.
Without being exclusive to ancient Celts, it is still a recurring motif of La Tène art and present in the immediately preceding Hallstatt : found in helmets as 's, feminine belts, scabbards, coinage (distinct from an hypothetical Greek model and utterly absent from British coinage), boss, etc. It is generally considered to be a solar symbol (as the swastika, also present in Hallstattian and Latenian art), standing for the celestial motion of the rising, arisen and setting sun, although there's no saying that it was the reason of its widespread use by these peoples besides a cultural familiarity with it, while it is possible the tripartite representation echoed a recurring cultural or spiritual triadic association among ancient Celtic peoples.
Source: Niewyk, Donald, and Francis Nicosia. The Columbia Guide to the Holocaust, Columbia University Press, 2003. 45-52.
Id sort of given up on looking for books on Asian history in Chinese/Korean/Japanese, because I lack the literacy skills, but I feel deeply foolish for not considering German books on the Near East--doubly so for being a Hesse fan (he had to find his inspiration somewhere).
See: Christian, David., Smith, R. E. F.. Bread and salt: a social and economic history of food and drink in Russia. Cambridge University Press, 1984.
Its inherent 'Celticity' is a fairly recent phenomenon as a reclamation of the past as legitimizing national and regional identities building-up over the XIXth and XXth centuries and notably tied with the symbolical reclamation from Insular art by the national Irish movements (among other symbols as the harp) and then carried over to movements asserting their own 'Celticity' as the adoption in 1941 by the nazi Breton National Party of the triskele as its symbol (rather than the otherwise used mistletoe, hermin charge, hévoud, etc.) before it became popularised in the second half of the XXth century.