Well, the creation of Soviet Republics and the USSR was a post-Civil war settlement mostly designed by Lenin and Stalin, the latter as People's Commissar of Nationalities (being himself a Georgian). At first, only the RSFSR (Federal Russia) existed, whose first autonomous republics were Tatarstan, Bashkiristan and Turkestan, but which were cunningly designed to have a substantial Russian majority inside their own borders.
With this said, Stalin's proposal was that all ethnic republics should be integrated in the RSFSR as Autonomous Republics subordinated to the Russian Sovnarkom (Council of People's Comissars, the Soviet Cabinet). Lenin counter-argued that this would just be Russian imperialism, and proposed the creation of a superior federal state, a Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, USSR, where all nationalities could be included. His proposal foresaw the integration of all future Soviet Republics into this Union, even if they were never a part of Russia, such as a German Soviet Republic, a Romanian Soviet Republic or a Hungarian Soviet Republic (which were trying to be created during the period of this debates in the early 1920s). There was a cynical angle to this, the politics of empire, in which by favouring an ethnic group in particular, that group would be a Politburo ally against any other local minorities, such that Ukrainians would be favoured against Greeks, Jews, Romanians and Poles living in the Ukrainian SSR, gaining an ally in Ukrainian nationalism. Lenin would indulge Stalin in his hate of his former colleagues in Georgian nationalism by creating a Transcaucasian SFSR which would include the three caucasian states instead of separate Republics for each nationality. Thus the USSR was created in 1922, with an already sick Lenin chairing the Sovnarkom and the Politburo. The system would mutate during the following years, creating and disbanding Soviet and Autonomous Republics, until reaching its final shape in 19511956.
Good answer. One interesting tidbit I would add is that when the United Nations was established, the Soviet Union, Ukraine, and Belarus were all given UN membership, effectively giving the Soviet Union three representatives in the UN.
Oh not at all. I don't have the number for the Whites, as it was an ad hoc movement who didn't take ethnic censuses, but its composition would be close to 100% Russian, with the only other favoured ethnic groups being the Baltic Germans (like Baron Wrangel) and the Cossacks, and they were famously anti-Semitic. This was one of the weakest points of the White movement, as the ethnic minorities decided not to join them because of their unapologetic Russian supremacist views, even though the Red Army was not their friend. This is very clear in Ukraine, where the Ukrainian People's Republic didn't ally with the White Movement despite both sides fighting against the Red Army.