Great question! Let me first begin that Cameron's "Titanic" is remarkably, painstakingly, accurate. It is a massive gift, so much so that I struggle to think of any film based on a historical event that is as well crafted and cared for (I suppose the opening scene to "Saving Private Ryan" would be another). There are slight little inaccuracies, tiny ones (for example, Rose holds up a post 1940s dime) but these are tiny oversights, not deliberate choices. As far as the event goes- what you see is what you would have seen had you been there. For example, there's a great shot of the bow sinking that shows the window to the chart room. If you look, you see the blueprints spread out on a desk. It's quick fly over shot- but Cameron still honors those tiny details. Amazing.
From memory, the film's depiction of Murdoch firing on passengers and subsequent suicide was very controversial at the time, resulting in Cameron travelling to Scotland to personally apologise to family members.
Boom! Mystery solved. The Pigott notebook corroborated the Harland and Wolf design and in 2015, we had the evidence that Titanic did indeed sail with a three bladed central propeller, not four as had always been assumed. Cameron's film, therefore, was wrong.
The answer then in regards to Cameron’s film is- we don’t know. We know he got the break up wrong, but there’s nothing concrete to tell us he got the final sinking wrong. He showed us what was described by witnesses. There’s obviously a disconnect between that and the engineering and that is a mystery that we just won’t solve.
Well I loved this. I was fascinated with the titanic growing up and you just added so much magic to it! Really appreciate you taking the time write all this.
Now Molony conveniently ignores all of this in his documentary, both testimony and even basic design of the ship, because addressing the flooding in the BR5 forward coal bunker would mean that it was taking the stress of holding back the water instead of bulkhead E, completely destroying his theory. Even if bulkhead E failed in part, the failure of the forward coal bunker is what doomed BR5 to flooding by opening it up to the sea, bulkhead E would only vary the flooding rate by minutes.
honestly? So many it's hard to count. I was younger when it came out and knew a fair bit but over the years as I kept learning and rewatching I kept noticing exactly how hard Cameron worked.