We, in fact, have a text about a well-to-do Roman aristocratic woman from Carthage converting to Christianity in the late 2nd century: The Passions of Perpetua and Felicity, a first-person narrative apparently written by Perpetua about her time in prison and martyrdom for refusing to rescind her Christian faith. We unfortunately do not have any text about Vibia Perpetua's life before her martyrdom, and her husband is curiously absent from the text, despite her being described as newly-married and having a young son she is still nursing. This could be caused by a number of things: he could have truly abandoned her and not visited her in prison, leaving her to the mob; he could have been away or recently died (although that is unlikely or she would've been identified as a widow); he could have been edited out by later scribes who wanted to emphasize her as a woman of God (the earliest manuscript we have is from the 10th century, so there was plenty of time for the text to be edited in this manner); or he could have been a prisoner with her, as some have suggested Saturus is her husband, but again his presence edited out.
. (For a physical copy, see Pliny, (Radice, B., trans.), The letters of the younger Pliny. Penguin Books).
The question posed concerns hypothetical individuals and it therefore necessarily requires some degree of speculation, but based on these facts about the environmental context, it seems likely that an aristocrat's wife converting to and actively practicing Christianity would have been a source of at least some embarrassment in the second century depending on how much the community knew about it. This would not have been because Christianity was seen as evil, so much as it was that the belief system and practices would have struck Roman aristocrats as bizarre, ignorant, and uncultured.
Fascinating stuff. Do we know where one might learn more about Christianity at the time? You mention the wife to have been consorting with slaves, and as I understand Christianity was initially a religion of the lower classes. So would a curious Patrician or upper class Equestrian have gone to ask some converted slaves for details about this curious new faith? Or would there have been some more scholarly or 'proper' channels to investigate it through?
Perpetua's Passions: Multidisciplinary Approaches to the Passio Perpetuae et Felicitatis. Edited by Jan N. Bremmer and Marco Formisano. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2012.