There's no contending that the stern of the Bismarck (and her sister ship) was a bad design. Beautiful but bad. Three screw ships are generally a bad idea. She had other flaws in the propulsion as well as Scheer himself observed. However, is this a "severe design flaw"? Would other battleships of the time have remained mission operational after taking a comparable torpedo hit in the stern? I would argue that in most cases, the answer is no. I mean the Prince of Wales succumbed to an almost identical situation, although it had four screens it was still not enough. She took a torpedo hit in the stern, lost the ability to steer but unlike the Bismarck did not survive the hit. The Bismarck at least remained otherwise operational. Her power remained, her pumps managed the flooding and her auxiliary systems remained operational. None of these things are true for Prince of Wales. So, if this is to be considered a severe design flaw in Bismarck, did all King Georg V class battleships also have severe design flaws in their stern section or are battleships by nature just vulnerable to taking a torpedo right up the stern? If all battleships designed in the 30's are vulnerable to this, is it really fair to say that it was a severe design flaw in the Bismarck?
In relation to this question I think it's unfair to dismiss the Bismarck as a flawed design. The Bismarck was a pretty good battleship in most regards. Stable, durable, fast. Her main flaw was her propulsion, she could have been even better with a two screw design and remarkable with a four screw design but all of that is beside the point. The Bismarck was a good battleship lauched on the eve of battleship obsolescence. Without carrier support all powerful surface fleets are vulnerable and all the design in the world wouldn't have changed that. She was perhaps the, or at least of of, the most powerful battleships of her time, her flaws were not in her design (with the exception of the stern/propulsion), it was in her a obsolescence the moment she left the dock, it just took a little while for the admiralties around the world to accept that.
This is completely wrong. The KGVs did not have a dual secondary armament; they had a dual-purpose secondary battery of sixteen 5.25in guns, capable of engaging surface and air targets. Bismarck had two independent secondary batteries; twelve 5.9in guns to engage surface targets and sixteen 4.1in guns to engage air targets (though it could engage surface targets). In both classes, the secondary battery was then supplemented by light AA, 2pdr 'pom-pom's and 'unrotated projectile' launchers for the KGVs (as built) and 37mm and 20mm guns for the Bismarck's. Bismarck's use of two single-purpose batteries was a waste of tonnage, compared to a single dual-purpose battery, as it required the provision of two sets of turrets and magazines. It brought little increase in effectiveness. Few ships were attacked by aircraft and by small surface targets simultaneously - the Japanese fleet at the Battle off Samar is about the only example I can think of - so in the vast majority of real-world situations, the dual-purpose battery would be superior. The German failure to develop and provide a dual-purpose battery for the Bismarcks was a design flaw, as the tonnage saved could be used to increase armour protection or speed.
Hrm. I mean, I don't really disagree but at the same time I do. At least a little bit, at least in so far as it pertains to this question. I'm going to try to phrase carefully because I really don't disagree with most of the main points, just partly with how they're interpreted.