The short version is no, they didn’t really, at least not during the Middle Ages (I can’t vouch for earlier, not my area). The medieval battlefield wasn’t particularly well suited to long ranged precision archery – once everyone was in a melee there wasn’t much opportunity to engage in specific targeted shooting without a huge risk of friendly fire. Archers in fact would often be armed with melee weapons of their own and might join in the fight once things got particularly intimate, leaving their shooting to either covering the advance of the army, forcing a repositioning or disadvantageous attack by enemy forces, or covering a retreating force (although retreating in good order wasn’t particularly common in the Middle Ages so this was probably the rarest of all). In essence they were more of a support weapon than one suited to specific deadly killing – despite what some in the longbow-fandom might have you believe.
It was with good reason that the chosen weapon of assassins in the Middle Ages was the dagger. The list of major figures killed by crossbow is relatively short (even shorter if you rule out hunting accidents) but the number of major medieval figures who were stabbed to death is pretty long. John the Fearless, Duke of Burgundy; Louis I, Duke of Orleans; John Comyn III of Badenoch; and Conrad of Montferrat (him by the actual Assassins of fictional Creed fame) to name just a few deaths that had major political repercussions. The list grows even longer if you count survivors, Saladin survived multiple attempts while Edward I was stabbed while on Crusade and recovered. The knife was the preferred weapon of assassins and it’s understandable why. With a knife you can hide it until you’re up close and personal and that intimacy makes it easier to ensure that your target is really dead or dying. People survive crossbow wounds – Joan of Arc was famously shot through the leg early in her military career and recovered – but stab someone enough times and they’re very unlikely to get better, especially with medieval medicine being what it was. In many ways Richard I was unlucky, a few centuries later a young Henry V took an arrow to the face and survived to go on and have a very successful military career before ignobly dying of dysentery.
For a case of more deliberate attempted assassination and regicide with a crossbow let us turn to the reign of Richard’s great-grandfather: Henry I. In February 1119, the Norman noble Eustace de Breteuil petitioned to King Henry I – King of England and Duke of Normandy – for the rights to the castle of Ivry – conveniently located in Normandy. Eustace made implied threats that he would join a rebellion against the king if he was not appeased, but Henry was unwilling to give him the castle. Instead, to appease Eustace King Henry arranged a hostage swap between Eustace and the current possessor of the castle, a Ralph-Harenc.
Eustace proceeded to close his castles to the king in an act of rebellion and sent his wife, Juliana, along with a small force to defend the town of Breteuil should Henry I attack it. Henry I in response moved his own forces towards Breteuil and much to Juliana’s inconvenience the people of the town opened the gates to their duke. Juliana sealed herself into the citadel of the town and tried to await reinforcements.
One thing to consider is why you would consider "stories of individual archers accomplishing such feats" as not fitting into the idea of a "sniper" given the way that that role arguably orientates itself towards individual feats of marksmanship (though over the course of the twentieth century it has increasingly become a paired role).
3. There's a moment in the story after he successfully takes the shot where the Duke notices that Tell had picked up two bolts as he got ready for his famous shot and asks him why. To which he responds that had he killed his son the second bolt was for the Duke's heart, and this time he would not miss. I think this moment really underscores the uncertainty in Tell of whether he could make the shot and pushes the idea that the apple shot is meant to be at the limit of human capacity.