To add on to this, he simply ignores in petroglyphs which do not fit his pareidolic interpretation. His website says that he has identified 107 American petroglyphs as being of Chinese origin, ranging all across North America. So out of a continent of rock carvings he has found a few dozen images which he has been able to match with about 1000 years of Chinese writing (given that he ranges from oracle bones to seal script). This is two huge bodies of images to work with and coincidental similarities are not surprising, particularly once regional (or even just idiosyncratic) variations in ancient Chinese script is taken into account.
No there isn’t. I’m a archaeologist working in the US Southwest and have had to deal with the pseudoarchaeology that Ruskamp has been promoting for several years. He came and talked at a local archaeology society meeting on the request of one member who was a fan. I was later asked by the society to come in and correct the record afterward. His arguments are laughably sloppy and full of special pleading. In a language where changing a character even a bit alters the meaning or makes it illegible he allows for tons of variation and substitutions in his “identification “ and then abuses statistical tools to give his arguments a feeling of scientific rigor to those who don’t have a background on those subjects. In reality he just makes wild claims that very different imagery is the same and then designs a statistical test to “prove “ it using his already deeply flawed data. He has no knowledge of rock art traditions in the region and if he did, he would know that many of the images he uses in his arguments have long and well documented trajectories of change through time locally and certainly don’t appear out of nowhere as he claims. He combines things from all time periods and claims they are contemporary. He’s a big self promoter and offers to talk to avocational Archaeology groups and sell tours in China. He uses a lot of the same tools as other fringe archaeologists to get stories on his work picked up by fringe publications and then cites them elsewhere as proof that his ideas are accepted. Jason Covalito has a little bit of context on him on his blog.