If US/EU/UK combined donated 19 Caesar howitzers, or equivalent, for every 6 million people, that would be 2,660 Caesar howitzers. Or roughly 3,500 Bradleys / Strykers.
I note Prigozhin making mocking comments about the Russian army (the clean shaven policy) which suggests to me he probably knows they are done relying on him and are shaping up for a renewed state-forces offensive that sidelines Wagner before they become a material risk to Putin's power (and because their 70+% attrition rate of human life is probably not sustainable for very long).
12. Austin/Milley asked if he's disappointed and how Germany can be seen as a reliable ally since they're 'dragging their feet' and are there any prohibitions of Ukrainian use of American weapons in Crimea: "This isn't really about one single platform, our goal is … to provide the capability Ukraine needs to be successful in the near term." Goes through battalions/brigades of mechanized, non-tank, capability. Says it can help Ukraine be successful. And that right now there's an opportunity to ensure Ukrainians are trained properly on the equipment and it will enable Ukrainians to be successful going forward. "This isn't dependent on a single platform. It's a combined arms effort.".
Having defeated Ukraine, known the world over as a massive military power, in the Battle of Soledar, the Russian army now has the very real prospect of capturing a small city nearby, which is not especially strategically important, and which will do them no good, at a cost of merely several thousand of their own troops.
4. France, Germany & UK donating air defense systems: PATRIOT battery from Germany. Netherlands donating PATRIOT missiles, launchers and training. Canada acquiring A-SAM(?) system.
Denmark officially agrees to forfeit its own delivery of 19 French-made self-propelled Caesar howitzers, opting instead to have them delivered directly to Ukraine.
2. Today's meeting focused on air defense and armor. Plus synchronizing the efforts of procurement, training, maintenance, sustainement. Building on training that began in 2014. More countries joining EU defense initiative. Partners are building up defense industries.