I'm not touching current events with a 39 & 1/2 foot pole, neither directly nor by comparisons. As some other posts point out, the most financially strapped presidents tended to be 19th century, with a few 20th century examples. However some early presidents dealt with sizable debt (and moreso in today's terms cash flow). Washinon had to borrow money to be able to travel to his own inaguration. Monroe owed thousands when he left office and ultimately moved in with his daughter (but did pay it mostly off previous to that). Madison neglected Montpelier and lost quite a bit towards the end. Even JQ Adams had to sell property to clear the debts of his father. The winner of early American indebtedness and wealth spent presidents, however, is Mr Thomas Jefferson. It's estimated he was worth 212M$ at peak, about half of Washinon and twice Madison, and died a little above even, assets to debts. But to see why we really need to look at a larger picture, so let's talk some Jefferson.
Terrific answer. I do think it's also worth pointing out that one significant aspect to Jefferson's precarious financial situation prior to his Presidency was the infamous nail factory. He actually made money on it for a few years starting in 1794 but then just got clobbered as more efficient manufacturing techniques replaced what were largely handmade nails; even with enslaved labor, I've seen estimates he was losing something like $5,000+ a year on it later on and it stayed open for years.
Great stuff! I'm now discussing it with my better half, and I was wondering if anyone could comment on his relationship with his VPs during his time in office, and how this may have related to his ability to keep the nation's debt in control while losing his grip on his own. I have heard that Burr in particular excelled at turning Jefferson's visions into practical reality. Would he have benefited from some kind of property manager? Was that a thing then?
To keep up appearances as a world leader, Washinon had to find assets to pay for extravagant parties and dinners when international leaders came calling, and Mount Vernon was famous to allowing literally any passersby to spend the night with a free waited dinner and breakfast - all paid by Washinon's diminishing capital. Washinon was also famous for taking in his nieces and nephews, as many of his family members died prematurely, leaving young mouths to feed and put through school. Washinon paid for dozens of young family members out of his own pockets, which inevitably left him struggling to make ends meet when it came time to pay his own debts and taxes. Towards the end of his presidency Washinon wrote personal letters to tenants with outstanding debts on his western properties, urging them to pay their dues. Imagine it for a second - the president was personally taking the time to attempt to collect payment from his own citizens - that's how financially troubled his situation was.
Yes! It's always ok to ask follow up questions or for clarity on particular information in a response 'round here.