I mean, technically the world will eventually run out of oil someday. Or at least, feasibly extractable oil. When I was a kid, I was always worried and wondering about what would happen if/when the world ran out of oil (I was also worried about the world running out of iron to make steel too- I played too much Industry Giant 1&2 as a kid). Anyway, depleting the world’s oil reserves is a very concerning reality. I had this Mickey Mouse/Goofy comic book from the 1970’s (my mother found it at the thrift shop) and it explained how energy/electricity worked, energy sources like coal, oil, nuclear and the energy crisis we then faced (and continue to face whether or not people want to admit it).
Edit. Aah yes, using phones or electricity to zoom is comparable to the amount of fuel they have to use to meet during those meetings. Good that you blocked me, don’t have to read you.
The whole concept of COP is a farce - everyone knows what to do about fossil fuels, nobody's government's willing to do it because they made the fossil fuel companies so powerful they can crater economies at will - they're already using their ability to manipulate oil markets to drive the outcomes of elections in the US, imagine what they do if someone actually proposed a workable carbon tax.
what? he geniuinely raised some good counterpoints while every single one of your posts has been doomposting while offering litte to no constructive contributions. i feel the lack of faith is on your side rather than his.
Thank you for making my point for me, as neither of these "agreements" have These agreements are largely completely toothless as there's no penalties for not meeting your "goals" and no real concerned effort being made by the heaviest polluters to actually do anything they weren't already doing in the first place. They literally codified what they were already doing, and most of the countries are behind their own goals. (I mean, just look at China's carbon power mix - they've actually slowed down progress since signing Paris.).