Side note: I was just talking last night with a friend who studies German and Russian utopianism and Marxism in that period, and coincidentally, she mentioned some things that now make me want to nitpick that answer's treatment of Rosa Luxemburg. For one, even as a revolutionist, she was in favor of electoral participation and women's suffrage in bourgeois society, and for another she was very opposed to Lenin's position, laid out in What is to be done?, that the spontaneity of the masses in a potential revolution would not be enough and that a strong vanguard party would be needed. :
Lenin, much like Luxemburg, insisted adamantly on the importance of political freedom to the success of Social Democracy. This was another tenet of Erfurtianism, that "political freedom is light and air to social democracy." Where they differed was in the facts of their circumstances: Lenin believed his own eyes when they told him that political freedom did not exist in Tsarist Russia, so he adjusted his strategy. Remember how I said Lenin "allegedly" found the SPD model impractical? That's another "textbook" misunderstanding, bordering on outright myth. He found their model only temporarily impractical, which is to say that he believed completely in its validity, just differed on its immediate applicability to Russia's immediate conditions. Does this then mean that he tossed it all out in favor of vanguardist conspiratism? No Lenin's strategy can be summarized like this : "The RSDLP is not like the SPD and Tsarist Russia makes it difficult for us to change that, so let's fight to make the RSDLP as much like the SPD as possible", i.e. let's use the SPD model as much as we can and fight for real political freedom so we can become even more like the SPD As a side note, the "real political freedom" which Lenin and Luxemburg had in mind was the democratic-republic as defined by Marx and Engels. Lenin took this a step further : what could more democratic and more politically favorable to a "Russian SPD" than a Dictatorship of the Proletariat!
Let's take another supposed "criticism", namely electoral participation a la the SPD, which we know Luxemburg greatly admired, and whose model that Lenin allegedly found impractical for Russia. First we should get some terms out of the way. Lih defines Second International doctrine as "Erfurtianism" - that is to say, the foundational theory of revolutionary social democracy was that found in the SPD Erfurt Program of 1891 and then explicated further in The Class Struggle by Karl Kautsky in 1892. According to Lih, Erfurtianism is made up of 6 core tenets (that I mostly forget right now), all of which, as it turns out, Lenin fiercely believed in and extolled throughout his career, from his beginnings as a revolutionary Social Democrat (what we would now call communist) to his death as beloved leader of the Soviet Union. According to Lih, the single most important tenet of Erfurtianism was the "merger thesis" : revolutionary Social Democracy as the merger of the Socialist movement with the worker movement, implicit in which is that both are independent of and equally valid to each other. We know that Lenin totally believed this, and further still, he believed that these movements were equal partners in Social Democracy - the party must never be above or below the workers, it must be locked arm in arm with them, always attentive and ready to act for the workers. Why have I spent so much time on Lenin when the subject at hand is Luxemburg? Because everything I've stated here, Rosa also firmly believed. We will now turn directly to the issue of electoralism.