In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Sure you can. If it meant losing your fragile grip on power, you’d “take it like a man”, just like he did. But still, it boggles my mind what would lead a man to that mindset.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
look, I had a very important and very very scheduled Presidential Physical, and they usually do it in 3 parts, but I was so good I only had to do 2, and I was told by Dr. Ronnie, he used to be your Doctor, now he's your Congressman from the Wonderful State of Texas, I love Texas, Texas loves Trump, and it was perfect, I tested perfectly positive, which is negative in another sense, but totally positive, and I really have not only the best health but the best look out of all the Presidents, if we're being honest about it, and you never got that with Obama, he wouldn't even take the Presidential Test because he knew he'd Fail Miserably. now you have Sleepy Joe letting China walk all over us, you have gangs and vicious mobs of Radical Left Thugs who have destroyed our beautiful Cities and hurt your Constitution because they wanna take away your houses and your 401Ks, but the Fake News would never tell you that.
ER doctor here! Basically a precaution. John has an ICD, for cardiomyopathy, CHF and Afib. This history alone makes him higher risk for an arrythmia than most. They'll interrogate his medical device for arrythmias and likely discharge him if it's okay and his labs otherwise don't show anything (dehydration, anemia, abnormal electrolytes or heart enzymes, etc.). More likely causes are orthostasis (stood up too fast/drank too little), or vasovagal (nerve/stressor-mediated). I discharge most people with this chief complaint unless they have a higher risk by their past history.