You're right. These things don't happen in a vacuum, so it's worth examining who Wallace's opponent was in 1982. He was Emory Folmar, the white Republican mayor of Montgomery. is how the Christian Science Monitor characterized him and his racial politics in a July 1982 article during the campaign, using his own words:
One last point of interest: the attacks on Wallace's racist record were not really coming from the Republican Party in 1982. They were almost entirely coming from the left-wing of the Democratic Party, his own party (well, the party he'd returned to). The Republican and generally right-wing attacks against him were that he was a political opportunist and a flip-flopper. As an October 1982 by the New York Times recounted, Wallace's first statewide race was in 1958, where he lost to a more committed segregationist than himself. His critics had long accused him of taking up the segregationist mantle only because he saw it as his best way to getting elected; he won the governorship four years later, in 1962, on his "Segregation Forever" platform. A decade and a half later, after 1976, they accused him of abandoning it once he recognized it was no longer useful in getting elected even in Alabama.
So, were there mixed feelings in the black community in Alabama about supporting George Wallace's 1982 election as governor of the state? Certainly. But the competition from the Republican candidate was not inviting. Emory Folmar was no better on race relations—and, at the very least arguably, he was worse.
Suffice it to say, Folmar's record on race relations wasn't exactly seen as a stark alternative to Wallace's. (For more details on Folmar's record on race relations, see . The most contentious event of his mayoralty, however, didn't happen until the year after his gubernatorial campaign - see [here](.
Thank you! This is good but not totally on point. It focuses more on why Wallace (claimed to have) changed. I’m asking more about why black leaders and voters accepted his change of heart and overwhelmingly supported him. It basically just says that he profusely apologized and many black leaders endorsed him, but that’s very surface level answer. If Jefferson Davis or David Duke had made a big show of apologizing, I’m skeptical they would have won black endorsements and 90% of the black vote.