An important situation flying under the radar, I think. Basically the GOP is set on punishing Nashville by destroying parts of its economy and taking away its autonomy because it rejected hosting the RNC. It's pretty scary behavior honestly signaling the GOP's intent on punishing those who don't follow their wishes.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD): HUD provides cities with funding and technical assistance to address housing and community development issues, including affordable housing, homelessness, and community revitalization.
It’s very scary. These small little abuses of power and retaliation are becoming more widespread and more frequent. It’s already too late to nip it in the bud. Action needs to be taken swiftly and decisively, or this is only going to escalate across more and more of the country. We are on a dangerous path as a nation.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Department of Commerce: The Department of Commerce provides cities with funding and technical assistance to support economic development and job creation, including through programs such as the Economic Development Administration and the Minority Business Development Agency.
In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
2. Protecting city sovereignty: The federal government could also help to protect city sovereignty by intervening on behalf of cities when they are facing challenges from state governments. For example, the federal government could file lawsuits or issue executive orders to prevent states from taking actions that infringe on the rights of cities.
So I asked: through which specific federal agencies and programs might the U.S. federal government bolster the rights of cities relative to states?
“The U.S. federal government could bolster the rights of cities relative to states through several federal agencies and programs, including:
These federal agencies and programs can help cities to address important issues and provide them with the resources they need to be effective and responsive to the needs of their residents.”.
Overall, these steps would help to empower cities and give them the tools and resources they need to be effective and responsive to the needs of their residents.