Edit: You young Americans can't even see how the military-industrial complex is beating the drums of war. You WILL eventually get drafted and go to war, and they recently passed a law that includes women in that. Have fun posting on Reddit from the front lines, or are you expecting someone else to fight for your idealism?
Probably. There was that one incident that was a flashpoint, but if not that one there would have been another at some point. There were too many people on both sides of the pond that wanted the US involved. And eventually, it may have hit them more directly just like in WWII.
When you add into this the pattern of behavior both domestically (within Russia - rampant corruption, violence, and rules-for-thee-not-for-me and far too high a likelihood of death by defenestration even for those among the elite) and what has been coming to light even outside of the ongoing attacks on Ukraine (election meddling internationally, plans leaking to take over neighboring countries OTHER than Ukraine, and on and on and on) - it is only sane to take a look at what's going on in Ukraine and go 'this is the tip of the iceberg as to what's coming if we let him have his way'.
Nope. Germany didn't attack to US in WW2 either. Just Poland to start. That's the lesson we learned. Even created a document signed by all UN members to respect borders afterward. Including Russia.
Edit: well, maybe you will, you just don't know it yet future draftee. Enjoy serving your military-industrial complex overlords.
So where's your dividing line where you start to care? NATO countries only? USA only? No care for the Baltic states which haven't joined yet? What about the ones who are still pending - do you care about Sweden, Finland? Cyprus? Malta? Andorra? Even leaving out Moldova with its troubles internally due to its separatist region already occupied (Transnistria), what about Kazakhstan? Azerbaijan?
The point is, these things tend to spill over whether we like it or not. And besides, the modern US can't really pursue isolationism while also maintaining a military presence around most of the globe.