/u/DGBD mentioned a few answers I've written in the past, and touched on a few issues themself, but I'll also repost this older response I wrote up which focuses specifically on the issue of Emancipation and the Confederacy.
Very strange. I'm surprised that little subgroup wasn't just absorbed into the broader Brazilian culture.
Almost immediately. The ideology of the "Lost Cause" sprung up in the immediate wake, although it reached its height in the early 20th century. I have a pretty extensive bibliography that looks at this quite in depth that may be of interest. I would add to that something I read recently.
At the 1860 general election the people of Missouri had elected a governor, Claiborne Jackson, and a majority of legislators who were sympathetic to the southern position, but the legislature agreed that the question of secession should be settled by a special convention called for that purpose. Although some later writers have referred to this convention as a "constitutional convention," “the convention was not chosen for the purpose of modifying the Constitution of the State.” Loeb, Isidor, “Constitutions and Constitutional Conventions in Missouri,” Missouri Historical Review, Vol. XVI, State Historical Society of Missouri, 1922, p. 200. The people elected ninety-nine delegates to the Secession Convention, which was held in February 1861; not one of those delegates was in favor of immediate secession. Violette, Eugene Morrow, A History of Missouri, D.C. Heath & Co. 1918, p. 329.
Karina Esposito. “Confederate Immigration to Brazil: A Cross-Cultural Approach to Reconstruction and Public History.” Public History Review, vol. 22, UTS ePRESS.
Matt Karp in , a book about the antebellum foreign policy of the United States, discusses how there were several ambitious but completely unrealistic plans for either the Southern US or the US as a whole to create a political union of all the remaining slave-holding countries in the Americas (which at the time mainly meant Cuba and Brazil) and then expand to encompass a vast circle that would span the entire Caribbean Basin and Gulf of Mexico, from the US down to the northern half of South America. The US (or maybe just the southern half), plus all of Mexico and Central America, all of the Caribbean islands, plus Colombia, Venezuela, Brazil, and a few other South American nations would become part of a vast white supremacist empire, built on plantation slavery.
Yes. They are known as the Confederados. Numbering several thousand, they moved down there and tried to recreate their antebellum lifestyle. Unlike many immigrant communities to Brazil, they were vociferously defensive of their heritage, trying to maintain a semblance of their American culture, and English as a first language, which is still true to a degree at least in the community that continues to exist there.