TL;DR: You appear to have the legal right to install a keyless deadbolt and use it when at home (). You can refuse entry to your Landlord when you are at the home and revoke the unlimited right granted to your Landlord to enter your home and instead demand adequate notice (Texas Property Code ยง 94.004). You can post a written notice indicating you are refusing entry to all visitors unless they wear an adequate mask that covers the mouth and nose. The mask must effectively filter the wearer's breath (no doilies, knit, or any other ineffective material) masks. The mask must be worn during the entire visit, and worn correctly. Failure to comply will result in the being asked to leave. Failure to abide by the requirements and failure to leave when these requirements are violated will result in the individual being considered to be tresspassing.
That's an excellent point. I hadn't considered that. Assuming the landlord is covered by the FHA, the OP's best course of action her might be to contact the landlord, explain that he has a disability and ask for the visitors to be masked as a reasonable accommodation.
If the OP bolts the door and says "I want any visitors to wear a mask" do you think the landlord refuse that, send the potential renters away, call his lawyer, and pay his lawyer to start a weeks or months long eviction process to remove a tenant who is moving out soon anyway?
When you examine the the time, effort, and (most importantly) money required to push back against the tenant who won't unbolt her door unless visitors are wearing masks, isn't the landlord's best bet to just tell the visitors to put their masks on?
NAL. I could not find specific COVID guidance, however, I found what may be relevant guidance below.
A pre-existing condition is not necessarily a disability. That gets into disability lawyer territory.
Yes. This will be a breach of the lease though, in my opinion, subjecting the OP to damages, like the landlord's lost revenue and added expenses relating to OP's denial of access.