I'm curious about how you found a new location for Magas. How does a capital city go missing and how do you find it again? How does your location change what we know about Alania?
Certainly! So in the medieval North Caucasus, we don't have very many written sources about women's lives, but Soviet and Russian archaeologists were quite interested in these kinds of questions, so we have a fair bit of evidence that way. It seems from the written sources we do have that women could hold quite senior leadership positions- for example, one migration of a North Caucasian family called the Aksarpakiani was led by a woman named Limachav. Similarly, women in graves are sometimes buried with weapons, normally axes. This doesn't necessarily mean that women actually fought in battle- although they might have at times- but more likely it signifies that women could serve as heads of households, since it seems that possessing weapons was a sign of this in North Caucasian cultures. In graves in general, however, there's quite a significant difference in grave goods between male and female graves (although in many cases the bones haven't been examined and attribution of sex is only done through grave goods, which is kind of a self-fulfilling prophecy). Nonetheless, it does seem that there was quite a bit of differentiation in gender roles- men's graves usually contain some kind of weapon, whereas women's graves more usually contain beads, cosmetics and domestic items such as shears. From this, we can surmise that the 'ideal' gender role for men was as heads of households, hunters and fighter, whereas for women gender roles involved domestic production and mastery of domestic crafts. However, the picture we get from grave goods isn't how people actually lived, but rather how people wanted to be seen in the afterlife- so in actuality, I'm sure that this picture was a lot more fluid.
Hello! Thank you for sharing your knowledge. Alania seems to have been stuck between many different empires - did they become a crossroads of trade? What kind of products would Alania have been famous for in, say, the 9th century?
Regarding "ethnic surprises"... I have to say that as a Caucasian historian, ethnicity is something I constantly have to deal with! There's a general assumption in the majority of academic literature on the Caucasus that ethnicity is something fixed and innate, but to me, this doesn't seem like the most useful approach. The problem is that most sources on the Caucasus prior to the 19th century are written by outsiders looking to classify its different peoples, and often re-using ethnic categories from centuries or even millennia before, without regard to how people actually living in the Caucasus saw themselves. What this means is that it looks like the Caucasus has some fixed, ancient groups of people- but if you look at ethnographic studies from the 19th century of how people in the North Caucasus saw themselves, it's clear that they expressed political allegiance through the metaphor of kinship- basically saying 'we should stick together because we're all one family'. However, these classifications are often really contradictory and change very quickly according to circumstances... so this makes it look like these categories emerge because of political reasons, and flips the formula on its head ('we stick together, therefore we're a family'). This isn't to say that this was insincere, but it seems that before the 19th century, how people thought of their ethnic or kinship belonging in the Caucasus was much more flexible than some modern anthropologists or historians studying them argue.
Ah sorry. I meant the indian subcontinent. Hypothetically there was immigration of aryan people to the subcontinent apparently going back thousands of years.
Hi! I'd be very happy to talk about this- although it's not my main field of study. But if you'll excuse me, let me go get my tin opener for this can of worms... ;-).