I once answered a question about the , which I think might be useful here. I would add to my previous thoughts with a couple of other points. First, research on Afro-Argentines has expanded even more from when I wrote that. We now know that colonial African populations in the Río de la Plata were probably even larger than we thought just a decade ago because slave smuggling was larger than was previously realized. They have also found other slave voyages, which have been added to the . Second, there was a very purposeful forgetting of blackness, not just in Argentina, but in all of Latin America during the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. National identity projects constructed nationalism around myths about national heritage by emphasizing how Europeans and indigenous people combined to create "mestizo" nations. The concepts of supposedly "white nations" in South America and "mestizaje" in much of the rest of Latin America intentionally wrote out the fact that millions of people of African descent also resided throughout the Americas. This corresponded temporally to the development of scientific racism, which gave intellectual motivation to downplay an African past. However, blackness is as much a part of Latin America's identity as indigeneity. Third, I will reiterate that Afro-Argentines never went away completely. Demographics shifted, but they remained influencial upon the Argentine economy and in the realm of Argentine culture. Many Argentines today bear the genetic markers of being descended from people from Africa. So this question always kinda strikes me as odd because my answer is to say that Afro-Argentines are still there, often hiding in plain sight. There is lot of research being done at the moment searching for more Afro-influences that have been overlooked by previous generations of scholars; they are doing important work excavating a hidden past to reveal vibrant and important Afro-descended populations and their varied experiences and contributions.
Huellas de una ausencia. Auge y evolución de la población africana en Chile: apuntes para una encuesta by Jean-Paul Zuñiga in Celia Cussen (ed.), Huellas de África en América: Perspectivas para Chile (Santiago, 2009).
El paso de los negros por la historia de Chile by Celia L. Cussen in Cuadernos de Historia (2006) 25: 45–58.