No, you cannot escape your requirements to provide coverage simply because they didn’t ask, employers have an obligation to accommodate employees who they reasonably understand needs an accommodation.
Hi. IANAL but my entire family are lawyers who specialize in employment law but not in your state. This certain sounds like you have grounds for a lawsuit. Depending on how much evidence you have you may or may not win the case. However, if the details you laid out to us accurately reflect the situation and the executive director was aware that you were a survivor of DA, your case will not be dismissed. If it does not get dismissed you will almost certainly get a settlement offer. This is because going to court will cost your employer upwards of $100,000. You should record all of the details and timeline as you remember it ASAP and collect all relevant evidence that you have and email it yourself. Then you should find a firm that specializes in employment law in Washinon and set up a consultation. The consultation will likely be free and you likely will be able to find a lawyer who will represent you on contingency. I wish you the best of luck.
>(3) Refuse to make a reasonable safety accommodation requested by an individual who is a victim of domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking, unless the employer can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of the business of the employer. For the purposes of this section, an "undue hardship" means an action requiring significant difficulty or expense. A reasonable safety accommodation may include, but is not limited to, a transfer, reassignment, modified schedule, changed work telephone number, changed work email address, changed workstation, installed lock, implemented safety procedure, or any other adjustment to a job structure, workplace facility, or work requirement in response to actual or threatened domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking.
Do not let up. There's going to be long periods between contact with the Washinon state investigators and I know life can get in the way, but use this momentum to make sure they are punished.