In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Whoa! Hearing the words of Jeffrey Clark the country really lucked out that he was successful in being as dangerous as his idol and then was stopped by men of higher ethics. Thank goodness his bosses did what they did, and what they had to do.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Example. Yesterday some guy on Facebook said to me Zelinsky has a war on Christianity. That was a new one for me.
But, assuming you are defending his inaction, I'll say, first, the for military officers includes an obligation to "support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic[.]" There's no possible interpretation of that oath that treats allowing a mob to besiege and sack the Capitol as upholding the oath. And the oath is also a law Congress passed, so you can't claim "rule of law matters" while also supporting violating one's oath of office that was passed by Congress. If rule of law matters, then so does upholding one's oath.
One cannot violate the Constitution, even at the President's direction, and uphold one's oath. And the Constitution is the supreme law of the land. Supreme over even the President, whose oath of office also requires upholding the Constitution. If the President and the Constitution are in conflict, the Constitution wins.
Fifth, even if there's a statute that might otherwise prevent him from acting, when a statute and the Constitution are in conflict, the Constitution always takes precedence ("This Constitution . . . shall be the supreme Law of the Land," .
And the Constitution says it's the supreme law of the land. Supreme over even the President. Like I said, if the President and the Constitution are in conflict, the Constitution wins. The military, even enlisted, are not expected to blindly follow orders. By your logic, Trump could've ordered the military to execute Biden, and they would've been obligated to obey that order. But we know that's not the case, that by just giving the order, Trump would be guilty of at least one crime, and that anyone who attempted or actually followed through would also be guilty of at least one crime as well. The President isn't a dictator.