Thanks for your question, it is a very relevant one as rehabilitation was such a focus of attention during and after the First World War, and both vocational therapy and physiotherapy played a major part in the process. Physiotherapy was still an emerging form of therapy but the First World War demonstrated how useful it could be, as well as dramatically increasing the need for trained practitioners. In the French context - which is the one I know best - several therapies were used, including hydrotherapy, mechanotherapy and massage, and they were performed sometimes by existing professional masseurs (including from the field of sports), but also increasingly by trainee practitioners as the need was so great.
Someone posted . If I’m reading it correctly, it seems to suggest that a bionic mechanical arm could be preferable to normal human limbs. It reminds me of the Italian led futurist movement in the lead up to WWI. So my question is, is this propaganda or did we see instances and perhaps a broader sentiment that disabled combatants could not just be brought back to ‘normal’, but in fact made even better than they really were? A ‘million dollar man’ sort of thing.
One really interesting (and even more complex) case is that of veterans who switched sides between the war and the post-WW1 period, for example combatants from Alsace-Moselle (where I come from) were German prior to WW1 and therefore fought in the German army, but Alsace-Moselle was 'returned' to France (France had lost these provinces to the German empire in the Franco-Prussian war of 1870-71) after 1918 Interestingly, as far as I can tell from the archival material I have consulted, veterans from Alsace were welcomed in French blind veterans' and disfigured servicemen's associations and no difference was made between them and others who had fought on the French side.
My question concerns race. How were non-white disabled and disfigured soldiers treated in comparison to their white counterparts? How did this differ between France, Britain, and Germany?
Some accounts report that prior to the Great War, for example during the Napoleonic wars, facially wounded servicemen would be killed by their comrades as it was felt that this would spare them further misery and nothing could be done for them, but the advances in maxillo-facial reconstructive surgery in WW1 changed this and people started to realise that facial injuries were not necessarily fatal, and that the wounded could resume a 'normal' life Nevertheless, as a testimony by a British soldier, Percy Clare, found at the Imperial War Museum, shows, at the start of WW1 even stretcher-bearers tended to collect facially wounded combatants last, as they did not think their chances of survival were great. Percy Clare writes that when he was injured he struggled to shout to draw attention, and when the stretcher-bearers finally saw him they didn't take him on as they thought he was too far gone...It is only the third party, upon the insistence of one of his comrades, that finally took him to the casualty clearing station.