In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
I agree. Be above them assholes and follow the law. Their side attacked the government.. their side claimed voter fraud.. we have nothing to hide..... Show up early with a smile and tell the truth. Fully be prepared for dirty accusations etc. But stay the course.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
They don't seem to understand the difference between seeking to hold a corrupt, lying, justice-obstructing, coup-facilitating narcissist accountable (who's lived a life evading accountability), and a fanatical fixation with a president's son (along with all the propaganda centered around him), who unlike the former president's family, isn't serving as an "advisor" or directly within the current president's administration as a result of nepotism while mired in conflicts of interest and fulfilling the underhanded, political and self serving schemes of daddy/father in law Trump, and in places like China, Russia and Saudi Arabia no less.
I needed this laugh. Nixon committed treason and was responsible for the deaths of millions by sabotaging the Vietnamese peace talks. Reagan did the same by sabotaging Carter's attempts to bring back American hostages and THEN the entirety of Iran-Contra. HW Bush killing the Iran-Contra investigation with blanket pardons that kept his own culpability from becoming public. They've NEVER cared about the rule of law where it concerns themselves.
I mean, you have Trump, notorious for his corrupt business dealings, both domestic and foreign, his tax evasion, his lying about his wealth, his shady business partners, his own cozying up to foreign political leaders and dictators, and Republicans collectively turn a blind eye to it, no, they defend it, and at the same time they think Joe Biden's "family business dealings" are worth investigating?
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
Afghanistan was a nightmare, but it was America's fucking nightmare, it was a collaborative effort, and not just between Biden, members of his admin and the military, but between decades worth of politicians, presidents, bureaucrats, military personnel, oil profiteers, defense contractors, what have you, not to mention the occasional extremist group and corrupt government officials in Afghanistan.