The film "The Last Castle" (great film) has Robert Redford say that our modern salute comes from knights raising their visors in respect and recognition. Wikipedia repeats this line of thinking.
The division essentially renamed itself the "Ukrainian National Army" in March 1945 and eventually surrendered to the Western Allies in Italy, but it never really turned to fight the Germans so much as it claimed to be the representative of a Ukrainian state fighting the Soviets (although these claims were extremely dubious and tenuous, and ironically most of the members who surrendered to the Western Allies and received asylum after the war qualified for such status on the basis of being interwar Polish citizens).
Ok, thank you very much. I know very well that the Draper-White thesis is nonsense and I noted that scientific or technical works are probably less than 3-2 % of the total works put on the Index. I just wanted to know about Darwin, and now you've confirmed it's a myth. (Interestingly though, two scientific works of the Spanish naturalist Odón de Buen y del Cos are on the Index, don't know whether for his Darwinism or other reasons... I would like to know this). Anyway, I asked because reading the work of Bujanda containing all the condemnations from 1600 to 1966, I couldn't see any... neat criterion for the banning of works and authors. Let me explain. First, I noticed that (probably, I haven't counted) the majority, or at least a large chunk of the authors are not irreligious or anti-Catholic, but even staunchly Catholic. A lot of works condemned are supportive of the spiritual and temporal power of the Pope. Then, some glaring omission, like Marx and Nietzsche, are often explained because works of atheists were automatically banned. But then why is Proudhon there (Opera Omnia)? Or d'Holbach? Or Ardigò? Or Comte? Or Zola? (The list is pretty long). Leopardi is on the Index, but only with his Operette Morali, so his other poems, I guess, were admitted to be read. But he was an atheist, so he shouldn't be there if atheists were banned without notice, so to say, and only one work of his is banned. There are other strange omissions (Mazzini, who wasn't an atheist, but I would've expected to be banned for obvious reasons). Galton, Spencer, Haeckel aren't there, but the explanation "they were atheists" doesn't convince me for the reasons above. Haeckel openly defended involuntary euthanasia and the slow elimination of lesser races, iirc, so his absence is even stranger to me. If you don't mind, could you answer these two questions? a) is de Bujanda's work considered reliable? and b) do you know about the criterion for the banning of works and the reason for the "confusion" about which I talked above (some reading suggestions could come in handy)? Thanks anyway.
As for the Bandera UPA, it did have among its members former police and militia organized by the Germans, but it was ultimately involved in a very multi-sided and complicated struggle against the the Germans, other Ukrainian nationalists, the Polish Home Army, and Soviet forces.
________. The Mongols and the Islamic World: From Conquest to Conversion. New Haven: Yale UP, 2017.
By 1943, the Germans were in retreat in Ukraine, and OUN-Mel'nyk worked out a deal whereby they would assist in raising recruits for the Division Galizien, with about 80,000 volunteering (although only 11,600 were actually trained and there was serious difficulty in finding officers). The division, once formed, went into service in early 1944, participating in the massacre of Polish communities, most notoriously at Huta Pienacka in February 1944, where some 500 people were killed (it wasn't used in operations against Jews for the horrible reason that there were no significant numbers of Jews left in its area of operations left to kill). The division was largely destroyed by the Red Army in July 1944 at the Battle of Brody, and was later reconstituted and sent by the Germans to put down partisan activity in Slovakia and Yugoslavia. Many members deserted and joined the OUN-Bandera's UPA, and Mel'nyk himself was arrested by the Gestapo.