Right. That's a verrrrrry weird position to take now of all times. Russia's economy is in shambles, has a terminal demography, refused to honor its version of article 5 with Armenia, and apparently can't even supply its own soldiers with winter uniforms but yeah I'm sure they'll be great partners.
Militarily no. Politically and through disinformation yes. Instances such as the failed coup in Germany, BREXIT, Hungary. It would only get worse.
In favour: Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Fiji, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Jamaica, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, Lesotho, Liechtenstein, Madagascar, Mauritius, Mexico, Montenegro, Myanmar, Namibia, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Romania, Russian Federation, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Solomon Islands, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syria, Timor-Leste, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, Viet Nam, Zambia, Zimbabwe.
3. Serbian army and paramilitary groups probably commited war crimes, but again, the reason for that is a crazy totalitairan leader who allowed that to happen. Some random civilian is not responsible for war crimes happening. He heard about that on the news as any other person in the world. Are Germans today responsible for the things that Hitler did?
Abstain: Afghanistan, Andorra, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Canada, Colombia, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Ghana, Grenada, Haiti, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Monaco, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of Korea, REP OF Moldova, Saint Lucia, Samoa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, Vanuatu, Yemen.
The Russians are masters of psy-ops. Do not underestimate their ability to infiltrate other governments.
2. NATO should have responded with bombings less violently. They targeted civiian infrastructure, hospitals etc. The wanted to spread fear and demoralise the nation. Thst is a crime against humanity. . They should have only atracked military targets. The result of the bombings is present bitterness from Serbian side and even bigger hate towards NATO and the west. Once you, as a civilian, see that people are helplessly dying around you from the bombs of one of the most powerful military foeces in the world, you can't expect Serbs to just feel angry and confused after.
FYI this is nothing new. This is literally ALL OF EUROPE. Example; Saxony was its own state, then it was a part of the Holy Roman Empire, then it was its own state again, then it got cut in half and part of it was Prussia the other half part of the German Confederation, then it became all Prussia, then they became part of Germany again, then they got split between East and West Germany, the. They became Germany again and that's how we currently know it as a province within Germany.