As you can see, while the early medieval period shows a smaller proportion than the Roman and High Medieval periods, 13.8% of early medieval sites still show evidence of at least one person who grew up in North Africa being buried there. In the high medieval period, that number rises to 28.6%. How many movies set in medieval Britain have you seen where between 13 and 29% of places are depicted as having people from North Africa in them (i.e. probably not white)?
I sincerely don't think the claims you are making stand up to published scholarship, and I think it's problematic that your post doesn't even engage with this evidence--you are citing an out of date blog post to provide scientific legitimacy to your argument, but ignoring huge swaths of peer-reviewed science that contradict it.
Thanks for your question! There are a few different lines of evidence you can look at besides oxygen isotope analysis. First, as I mentioned in the above post, there is craniometric analysis. This has to be dealt with very carefully because it's rooted in the racist science of phrenology. But it can still provide insights into whether a person might have been of African descent, as explained above in the cases of the North Elmham woman and the cemeteries of Roman York. This type of analysis has been applied to other cemeteries I didn't mention, like a Black Death-era cemetery in London where 29% of the interred were estimated to be of non-white ancestry.
Thank you for editing. You have correctly identified the verbiage that was rude and accusatory. However, I also want to note that you are putting words in /u/Kelpie-Cat's mouth and then demanding that she back them up. You've stated:
I'm not an expert on all this stuff, but I am an academic biologist, and I follow the literature in these areas, and I've seen absolutely nothing published that supports the idea that there was substantial migration from Africa to Europe during the periods you discuss--even though the DNA data gives far higher resolution, and is able to identify "outlier" profiles that are non local (and locate their origin much more specifically). For example, here's that looked at 9 genomes from a Roman era cemetery in Britain, and found that 8 of them clustered genetically with European populations, while one is much closer to Middle Eastern populations. That kind of geographic resolution is common in ancient DNA studies now, and with thousands of samples published from prehistoric and historic Europe, if any substantial number of them showed African origin, we'd all have heard about it by now, because it would be a really exciting news story.
That's right - Huns! A 5th century Eastern Roman text from the 440s even says that Attila the Hun ruled over the "islands of the Ocean", probably the islands of Britain. Now, Attila had a massive empire and there is not much evidence that Britain was ever a meaningful part of it. However, there is evidence that the Huns had conquered parts of the English homelands on the Continent in the first half of the 5th century. It may well have been that when these people migrated to Britain, Attila considered himself to still have some nominal overlordship of them, and there may have been some Hunnic officials who were included in these migrations. There are a handful of pieces of jewellery dating to the early English period which have similarities to Hunnic jewellery from the Continent. All of this suggests that in the earliest English period, say the 5th century, there may well have been some Huns in England. The Huns were not a homogenous "race" in the modern sense since they were a cosmopolitan group with people from many different origins, but they would have certainly consisted of many people (perhaps a majority) who could be played by Asian actors today.
Ok, thanks for the detailed response. I'll take another look at the sections you mentioned. I am a bit confused though, because elsewhere in the comments, OP writes:
Orfinskaya, Olga, and Pushkina, Tamara, "10th century AD textiles from female medieval burial ц-301 at Gnëzdovo, Russia", Archaeological Textiles Newsletter (2011).
Speaking of the "Blue Men" the vikings brought to Ireland. Could they have been Tuaregs from North Africa? They are famous for wearing dyed blue cloth and have been referred to as "Blue Men" for centuries. Could that be the reason for the name, other than skin color? Or would this have predated the Tuareg culture I am thinking of?
Another line of evidence is documentary evidence. Caitlin Green has a about people named Muhammad in England between the 12th and 14th centuries. For example, a man named Mahumet was fined for participating in an unlicensed duel with John de Merleberge in the 1160s. There are quite a few other references to men named Muhammad she details there, plus a 12th century description of London which references the Moors living there. These sorts of records come after the beginning of the Crusades. For example, Henry II and his son Richard the Lionheart had "Saracen mercenaries" working for them. Other "Saracens" came as slaves to England during the Crusades. Here's a 1259 mandate for the arrest of an escaped slave:
>These factors can all contribute to altering the direct relationship between individuals’ oxygen isotope ratios and the environmental ratios of their place of origin. The best approach is therefore to avoid the conversion of skeletal δ18Op to water δ18Ow, and instead compare the skeletal values directly with other human phosphate values.