Whenever we discuss ANYTHING, be it the weather, a pattern on fabric, a basketball game, etc., the more detail we provide the more precise we can be. If in conversation I say “it rained all day,” that might seem an innocuous statement that on the surface seems “true” to describe the gloomy wet day yesterday. However, what if what really happened yesterday was that it was overcast with no rain until 8:46am, at which point it started to rain until 2:14pm, at which point there was a brief hailstorm until 2:47pm, followed by more rain, until another brief period of sleet as the temperature dropped at 9:28, and then no rain until after midnight? My characterization of it raining all day was “fine” for certain purposes, but it obviously wasn’t true in the sense that it obscured a lot of what actually happened yesterday. If someone who firmly believed the statement “it rained all day yesterday” then tried to apply that statement then attempted to tie it to a larger question— “why does it rain all day in THIS country but not in THAT country?”— then you’re basing your question on a false proposition that logically means your conclusion cannot be true.
1. A theory that is incredibly rigid and thus breaks down as soon as exceptions start to emerge (i.e. Marxist dialectical materialism);.
But at what cost? I’d argue the outcome is more damaging that we might think. It’s tempting to say “yeah I know not to take everything I read in Guns, Germs, and Steel literally, but it’s an interesting story regardless and I want to hear Diamonds answer to the question of why ‘Europeans came to rule’ the Americas.” There are plenty of other posts that go into detail on what’s faulty about Diamond’s premises, but if I read Diamond and come away with the conception of a helpless indigenous population wiped out by factors beyond their control, I now have a pretty powerful paradigm for how to view the world in my head that is NOT meaningless.
2. A theory that fundamentally voids itself of all but the most general and nebulous predictive power (i.e. Whiggism);.
In a very different way, reading works like Polybius's Histories or Plutarch's Lives can grant an idea of developing virtue; there is a distinct pleasure in recognizing shared values across the ages that can be incredibly reinforcing of an open-minded, rational worldview (this, for example, is why the works of the stoics have seen a popular renaissance as of late; they contain fantastic teachings that can span vast gulfs of time).
Thanks for your thorough answer! Just to follow up, Daron Acemoglu and James Robinson are both economists/political scientists by training. Social scientists almost by definition try to find generalizable conclusions out of hypotheses. In your opinion, to what extent do your critiques here of Acemoglu and Robinson's reasoning approach here stem from market constraints of the publishing genre of "big history", vs the authors (or other similar big picture thinkers like Francis Fukuyama) having a disciplinary background and training than historians?
3. Subset of the above, a theory that describes how things happen, but doesn't explain why, and is therefore similarly constrained in its predictive power (i.e. the dynastic cycle model).