INAL - someone will add to this thread what you should pursue legally. I always advise when dealing with someone in a licensed industry, filing a complaint with their licensing agency is important.
OMG. I'm a Broker in Florida. This is illegal and unethical behavior on the part of the agent. I'm curious if they gave the tenants the keys from the ELB (electronic lock box). If so, access data is recorded on that box so the board of realtors can see who was in it last. You need to find out who the Realtor's Broker is and make them aware of what this agent has done. Brokerages have Errors and Omissions (E&O) insurance, so you would need to go after that. Talk to an attorney. The tenants have some responsibility too because they violated lease terms by moving in prior to activation (although they likely wouldn't have had the agent not given them keys). I suspect they didn't even transfer utilities into their names (unless they are included as part of the lease), so they're using them on your mom's dime. Contact the Board of Realtors asap and let them know you want to file an ethics complaint (and why). Also file a complaint with our state licensing board FREC (myfloridalicense.com) and file a complaint with them. The incident will be investigated and will be subject to disciplinary action (fines and potential loss of license). I get if you don't want to go through a potential costly legal battle in court, but at least do the actions with FREC/DBPR and the local realtor board. Google "Florida Real Estate Recovery Fund." There's a state law that covers things like this and you could be compensated directly from the governing licence board without having to go to traditional court. This is a big deal to allow someone to move in without property owner permission, and frankly a slap in the face to have a DGAF attitude about it when their actions are called out. Hope this helps!
PS If the tenant didn't pay after occupancy, it sounds like there may be additional grounds because the agent didn't do their due diligence on the tenants ability to pay and potentially other screening criteria.
Yes. There is a pot of money for people who have claims and the realtor can’t or won’t pay out what they’re supposed to. But I think that’ll come after you go the legal route and have a judgment. You should be contacting both the professional board for real estate as well as a lawyer.