In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Great. I guess we can rest assured that educators know how to ready-aim-fire so that they hit their targets better when they snap in the classroom from being hopelessly underpaid and stressed out.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Educator here. For those of you unaware, there is a rubric/framework, called the Danielson method—it’s essentially a breakdown of all the responsibilities of an educator with regards to all aspects of teaching. Not just the content, but also professionalism, and for the purpose of this post, Classroom environment. Having guns in the classroom does make an environment conducive for learning.
A teacher’s interactions with students set the tone for the classroom. Through their interactions, teachers convey that they are interested in and care about their.
As important as a teacher’s treatment of students is, how students are treated by their classmates is arguably even more important to students. At its worst, poor treatment causes students to feel rejected by their peers. At its best, positive interactions among students are mutually supportive and create an emotionally healthy school environment. Teachers not only model and teach students how to engage in respectful interactions with one another but also acknowledge such interactions.
“Respect” shown to the teacher by students should be distinguished from students complying with standards of conduct and behavior. Caring interactions among teachers and students are the hallmark of component 2a (Creating an environment of respect and rapport); while adherence to the established classroom rules characterizes success in component 2d (Managing student behavior).
So where would they keep their weapon? Strapped to their side all day? That would really help anxious kids learn. Ok, how about in a locked desk drawer? What if they forget to lock it one day? What class of school kids doesn’t have at least one amateur lock pick in it? Mine did. Oh, and when a kid draws down on said teacher they are going to say, hold on, I have to get the key from my pocket/purse, unlock the drawer and shoot you?