Was it an explanation of benefits you received? Dentists usually send in the full cost of a procedure to the insurance company, the insurance company then makes an adjustment to the costs based on whatever their in network contract states with the dentist, that's probably where the $600 to $375 came from, it should say something like allowed amount next to each line item. Then based off of the adjusted amount the insurance pays out based upon what your insurance plan says it covers, that is the amount they pay to the dentist. What likely happened is after all the adjustments are made and if what you had done is any more involved than a basic cleaning and x-rays it can get tricky to estimate what the patient owes for the work especially when dentists like to collect up front. Basically your dentist owes you a credit of the difference between what you paid them already, $120, and what the insurance states you owe in their final evaluation, $58. I don't think this is a legal question as you haven't made an efforts to find out what the discrepancy is and no one is refusing you benefits or money. Pro tip, you can call your insurance company and ask them to explain your explanation of benefits and coverage, it saves a lot of head scratching and makes a conversation with the billing department at your dentist much easier, some insurance companies will even go ahead and call the dentist and help resolve discrepancies on your behalf.
Sure thing, the dentist also gets a copy of the paper you received from you insurance, most dentists adjust patient accounts as they receive the EOBs but to my knowledge it's not common practice to issue refunds but instead to apply credit on patient accounts so that could also have happened too.
They paid everything but the $58. But I’ve already paid $120 out of pocket. Basically he said it was a $600 procedure that I would pay $120 of. Insurance said he claimed it was a $375 procedure that I would pay $58 of.
So what I’ve gathered is that he quoted me $600 for the procedure, but the claim he filed with the insurance company was only $375. And if I’ve already paid $120 out of pocket, why do I have to pay another $58 if the procedure was cheaper than the original quote?