I believe there was no single factor, but rather a series of them which held various degrees of influence.
I think giving many examples of late middle ages centric games might be useful in this context, I don't consume much fantasy content admittedly, but most of it now thinking of it is high middle ages if not earlier, LotR, The Witcher (in a sense), Eragon, Skyrim, my guess is Zelda too but I'm not well informed enough, Dark Souls, GoT, Merlin stories - which reminds me, a lot of modern fantasy are just a direct inspiration from English stories (fictional or not), and some French stories (which goes back to relating to England often), and notably germanic folklore, be it because fantasy is an english genre, and be it because the english world being the center of modern western culture they can easily influence other western european societies. The Arthurian Legend, Beowulf, Tolkien's works, The War of the Roses, Robin Hood, even inspirations from other european cultures are anglo-centric, The Hundred Years War, The Norman Conquest of England, Viking Age (but only its relation with England, not with itself or with other cultures). You can essentially break down contemporary fantasy writing into these eight components with 99% purity. Which goes back to another matter, Fantasy is very centered on european history, and within european history, western european, within weurope, France and specially England are the main component of these stories.
Thank you for your answer! I was mainly just curious and wished to know because I like to write as a hobby, my genre being medieval fantasy, I write in around the period of 1210-1230, because I love the style in the early 13th century compared to any other. It's interesting to me that earlier periods aren't covered so much, and I do wish that more concepts were put in earlier periods. It all starts to feel a little samey in reality.
Perhaps as a professional deviation, I've recently attempted some alternate timeline short stories and some attempts at historical novels, because I feel there can be much to be explored if earlier periods of history (I was doing a lot of research on AD 950 Normandy and VIII century Lombard Italy) both with "what ifs" and planned used of folklore without fantasy actualization.
This goes back to your examples of late medieval weapons. Perhaps this sort of military equipment is more popular among authors / it captured the imaginary of the common folk better? For practical purposes (and marketing purposes) the history of warfare and society have been much simplified in fantasy writings, on one side to not make it too massive a text for the readers to digest, on the other because authors usually do little research on medieval history and just roll with what they know/perceive as factoid about the european middle ages, also it's often simplified to be more recognisable for what people are used, people's own biases and dumbing downusually a lot of how the power structures are organised/society behaves is inspired on medieval western europe of earlier centuries than that of late middle ages, some coming from the early middle ages others from the high middle ages, technologically too.
1. Di Carpegna Falconieri, Tommaso. "Medioevo Militante. La politica di oggi alle prese con barbari e crociati", Einaudi, Torino, 2011;.