A bit of both. Many eager Nazi Party officials, including the commander of the Luftwaffe, Hermann Göring, maintained their own "little empires" and contributed to infighting within the German government and military. As Prussian Minister of the Interior, Göring had formed an elite police battalion in 1933, which eventually grew into the division-sized Fallschirm-Panzer Division 1. Hermann Göring. It fought in Italy and Poland, compiling a good combat record in comparison to Luftwaffe infantry formations, but was accused of a multitude of war crimes against Italian civilians. By 1941, the Luftwaffe had grown to a strenh of 1,700,000 personnel, and had absorbed many duties not directly related to flying aircraft; anti-aircraft defense consumed 35 percent of this personnel, and signals consumed 18 percent, while only 588,000 men, or 36 percent, served in flying units. The Luftwaffe was 20 percent of the strenh of the entire German military in late 1941.
"Feldkonstruktion" ('Field-construct(ed)') and "Fehlkonstruktion" ('Poorly designed (thing)') sound quite similar (pronounced like 'Felled-construction' vs 'fail-construction').
Ah okay. It could be the case because army is a direct and literal translation of Heer, so nothing is lost in translation. Translating Luftwaffe and Kriegsmarine literally as "air weapon" and "war navy" wouldn't make much sense in English. Especially the term Kriegsmarine is very closely connected to the Third Reich, as this name was only used for the German navy between 1935 and 1945. It's not just the German word for navy.
The failure of the Luftwaffe field divisions was a topic of discussion through the summer of 1943; it was proposed to convert them to more elite types of divisions in light of the quality of their personnel, such as luftlande (air-transported) divisions or "sturm" divisions which would conduct surprise attacks against Soviet forces in concert with panzer divisions. Parachute units stationed on occupation duty in France were permitted to draw on the divisions for replacements. In September 1943, Hitler authorized the Heer to assume responsibility for the divisions, severing the Luftwaffe's direct control. Many Luftwaffe commanders were summarily replaced, the divisions were converted to use the organization of the 1944-type Heer infantry division, and two field divisions were eventually entirely amalgamated, even losing their designations as "Field Divisions (Luftwaffe)." The original plan was to form 22 Luftwaffe field divisions, but only 21 were fully constructed; one was a re-formed Gruppe Meindl. The balance fought on the Eastern Front, although four saw service in Normandy (all were destroyed in combat or disbanded), two in Italy (both were disbanded), and one on garrison duty in occupied Norway.