The Victorian era looked upon incest differently then we do. It was thought that man and wife, upon marrying, became actual family. There was no difference between blood relations and in-laws in term of nearness. Since the wife is now family, so is the sister. To then marry the sister was considered incest.
There was a big taboo on incest, and a focus on seeing the bond between brother and sister as pure and not "tainted by passion or irregular desire". The argument was that the bond between brother-in-law and sister-in-law should be similarly pure. (The article by Nancy F. Anderson goes quite extensively into the fact that incest between brothers and sisters was probably fairly common and the lines between sibling-love and romantic love were sometimes blurry. The article is quite old and arguably some theories are dated. I still want to mention it but invite you to explore this aspect on your own.).
Because it seems equally likely that this is just attempting to justify and defend the law, by insisting that it wasn't actually anything new, but merely clarifying and upholding an older forgotten precedent.
Thank you! This is a fantastic answer. I have a few follow-up questions, though they might be better served by their own posts. (Tagging in u/de-merteuil here as well.).
Towards the end of the 19th century, critics argued that the biblical verses used to opposed the law should be interpreted differently, did not have a historical basis in law, or that the verses were chosen to justify the decision already taken, instead of inspiring the decision.
One thing I would point to, though, is coverture. As I mentioned in the post, when men and women married they were considered "one flesh". The consequence I mentioned was that one's brother-in-law became one's brother in the eyes of the law, but there were others - married English women's property belonged to their husbands, contracts they signed could be thrown out if their husbands didn't want them to exist, and so on. (The "one flesh" ultimately meant that a wife became her husband's flesh.) This affinal-marriage prohibition wasn't just people interpreting the Bible in a particular way, but part of a general attitude toward the effect of marriage in English society and law.
In short, there is no hard evidence. There are things that could be considered as evidence depending on how you read them or what view you take. But hard evidence in the sense of DNA or eyewitnesses, no.
So do we consider this hard evidence? I think you could conclude that there is not any real hard evidence. On the other hand, this rumor has persisted for over 200 years, and inspired many books and writings. Would that have happened if there wasn't a trace of truth to it? This fascinated Victorians and obviously, it still fascinates today.
Re: 2 - That is very subjective. It seems excessively intrusive because the restriction no longer exists and seems nonsensical, but legislation outlawing child marriage and relations we still recognize as incestuous today existed then and now, and the MDWS ban was conceptualized on roughly the same grounds.
I have a follow up question. You say, unless I’m misunderstanding, that couples would go to Scotland to get around this law. Wouldn’t Scotland have been covered by Parliament’s law as well? And u/mimicofmodes answer seems to suggest that these marriages would have been considered void in Scotland from 1567.