High-school age 'guys' had a variety of different reactions to the Beatles at different points in their careers. But overall, between the four of them, the Beatles had a model of masculinity which many young men of the era aspired to, rather than despised. This can be seen, for example, in the cliche that is a successful 1970s rock'n'roller talking about having seen the Beatles on the Ed Sullivan Show in 1964 and how it changed their lives.
Interesting. I've never heard that folk artists associated electronic instruments with capitalism. Do you have a source where I can read up more on this?
Excellent. Would it be fair to say, then, that since the Beatles were sort of the first modern supergroup, the public didn't view them through quite so cynical of a lens as we might with your One Directions and NSYNCs these days? (Wow, did I just ever date myself...).
However, as the British Invasion of the US charts got underway across 1964-1965, in the wake of the Beatles and Beatlemania, it quickly became clear that there were other groups - first British groups like The Rolling Stones and The Kinks and the Yardbirds, and then, a couple of years later, American groups - who strongly accentuated the aspects of the Beatles' music coded as masculine, while dumping other aspects of the Beatles music, being not as richly melodic or harmonic, that might be more coded as feminine. This was usually done by aping aspects of the Chicago blues music of the 1950s, which was unusually harsh in sound, with singers who strongly emphasised their masculinity in their sound and their lyrics (i.e., Bo Diddley's 'I'm A Man' and Muddy Waters' subsequent 'Mannish Boy'), with most of the Chicago bluesmen being African-American men who were likely born in the rural South, and who had likely consistently been called 'boy' by white Southerners. These English blues rockers - The Rolling Stones being the most famous - covered a bunch of this kind of music, importing a kind of exaggeration of masculinity into the music that, in comparison to the Beatles, much more strongly codes as masculine to modern audiences who've heard Metallica.
The Beatles, while they're explicitly the model that the Monkees are based on, get a sort of free-pass from devotees of the rock aesthetic because they were so influential, because they certainly took their music in new directions after Beatlemania, in ways that were acceptable to the counterculture of the era that had evolved from the folkies (e.g., hippies), and because, well, people still remembered how masculine the Beatles had sounded like to them in 1964, before they'd heard the Rolling Stones, or Cream, or Led Zeppelin, or Iron Maiden or Metallica.