The for the year 1869 indeed has correspondence between the two innovators of scientific socialism dated 17 December of that year, but it concerns Irish trade unions-- i.e. a totally different topic. \\] I'm not trying to call into question your source's validity here, but I'd love to see some more of that letter to get a better understanding of the context of what Marx is talking about specifically.
Barring that for the time being though-- it's important to point out, Marx's general opinion wasn't so much anti-Russian as anti-Romanov and anti-Tsarist. He viewed the Russian autocrats extremely negatively, but had enormous sympathy for the actual oppressed masses of Russian peasants and proletariat.
As such, the answer to your question is rather anticlimactic, Marx wasnt't especially anti-Russian, but any sentiment he maintained against the state of Russia vis-a-vis its autocratic ruling class was completely supported by the Bolsheviks-- including figures like Vladimir Lenin and his ilk.
The MIA archive is incomplete. The source can be found on pages 403-405 of volume 43 of his collected works, the PDF of which is available . It seems reliable enough to me, it's from the scholarly edition published by Lawrence and Wishart.
With respect to the people who were running in circles where Marx was required reading and who might have been able to get their hands on something like his and Engels' letters (we're talking about a very short list of people now, by the way), I don't think Marx was ever considered to be overly predjudiced against any particular group-- if anything he should have transcended such bigotry outright as a supporter of the worldwide proletariat; maybe someone dedicated to the study of Marx the man as opposed to Marxism as it relates to Russia can write about that topic more eloquently than I am able to do though. Some authors during the sixties and seventies in the United States, who focused specifically on racial issues and their intersection with class issues, have suggested that Marx's and Engels' ideas were inherently exclusionary of people of color, improper in their analysis of non-western cultures, or indeed out-and-out racist \\], but all that occurred long after Marx's death and the ascent of state-sanctioned Marxism.
The context of the letter is not Romanov and Tsarism but Bakunin. He had no links with the Tsar, and the comment about "hell to pay" appears as a virtual non-sequitur. He does not say "when this Russian gets a foothold", but "when a Russian gets a foothold" -- the comment is generalised about all Russians.