The historiography of WWII has had some serious issues over the years. The official history of the war written by the Americans was informed by none other than former OKH chief, Franz Halder. The 1950 combat infantry manual for the US Army that talked about Soviet fighting capabilities was HEAVILY informed by the Germans... and so was popular history. Halder has his diary, and Heinz Guderian and Erich von Manstein wrote memoirs that were widely published in the West by the 1950's.
Very interesting. Thanks for posting. Did any RAF members ever get found out or identities revealed after the fall of the wall? If so, what happened to them?
The lack of clarity is mostly because, unlike totalitarianism or revisionism, post-revisionism isn't really a "school" with a singular outlook. In some senses this is because it synthesizes arguments both totalitarianists and revisionists made: so to takr Kotkin's Stalin biography as an example, Stalin is clearly a driving force behind the Purges (which totalitarians argued), with there also being social and institutional conditions that responded and prompted his push for Purges (which the revisionists argue).
How did this play out? in myriad ways big and small. Obvious the housing of ex-terrorists and the training of still active terrorists ranks pretty high on the list. But its important to note, they did not DIRECT the RAF member who wanted training for, say, the RPG attack on General Kroesen in 1981. They simply responded to requests of the various RAF members by providing the training and weaponry they asked for.
US study of the Soviet Union didn't really take off until the Cold War era, and at that point it quickly developed into what has been called the "totalitarian" school - namely that the Soviet Union was a "totalitarian" society, with everything controlled tightly by an all-encompassing central, ideological authority, and that in many ways this Soviet totalitarian system shared broad similarities to Nazism and fascism, and all were antithetical to Western liberal democracy. This outlook received funding and support from various parts of the US government, tended to use (but incredibly skeptically) officially published Soviet documents, but also rely heavily on defectors' accounts. It also had a heavy emphasis on political science, and treated Soviet studies as something outside area studies and academic history. Zbigniew Brzezinski would be a major figure in this school, and the school received broader popular attention through the writings of Richard Pipes (although he had his own Sonderweg version of Russian history) and Robert Conquest, the latter I should mention actually wasn't an academic historian. u/kaisermatias has a good summary specifically around how Pipes and Conquest interpreted Soviet nationalities policy.
2. The West didn't trust Soviet sources. A CIA paper written in the late 1950's titled "Caeser X 59" basically disregards most earlier writings and only then starts to trust sources from the Soviets. The CIA had a unique take because.
The second issue is that, in addition to these local nationalists/reformists who belatedly joined the Communist Party, many of the Party members who joined and even had a significant amount of authority often had a very tenuous understanding of Marxism-Leninism (this was a constant issue in Russia as well during this period, and led to many of the small p purges of party membership during this period). Very specifically in places like the Ferghana Valley, when the Communist Party's Zhenotdel (Women's Department) launched the Hujum or "Assault" on the public veiling of women, many local Party members either opposed it, or sought support from local religious leaders.
1. Censorship. Soviet Marshall Georgi Zhukov once had the word "rout" censored to "withdrawal." A picture from Stalingrad showing Chuikov's 62nd Army staff gathering and laughing as a man held a machine gun... well that was actually a puppy. Things like that happened all the time and it meant that information was either untrustworthy, OR.