Initially, one of the main Chinese imperial titles, tianzi, or Son of Heaven, (tenshi in Japanese) was utilized by the Yamato rulers to establish parity when conducting diplomacy with their Chinese counterparts. There is a famous exchange between the Yamato empress Suiko and the Sui emperor Yangdi in which she identifies herself as the tenshi/tianzi of the "Land of the Rising Sun" addressing the tianzi/tenshi of the "Land of the Setting Sun." See Joshua Fogel, Articulating the Sinosphere, for more on this.
One issue is that what makes one an "emperor" versus a "king" in Japanese-translated-to-English terminology may very well be almost entirely a choice in the flavor of transliteration, by historians writing in English, that was set to demarcate the creation of a more grand or pompous monarchy than that which existed prior to Emperor Jimmu. If we cruise past that obstacle, then it would appear that one could argue that by ruling over disparate ethnic groups or different cultures even within what would eventually become the conglomerated Yamato people of today then Jimmu's court certainly satisfied the requirement of ruling peoples outside of its regional home base. After all, one of the concurrent background events during the time of Jimmu's conquests is the emigration of the Yayoi peoples to Japan, mingling with the Jōmon people to eventually become the modern Japanese.
3. The title tianhuang was adopted as a title by Emperor Gaozong of Tang, who reigned during a period in which this title was used by the contemporary Yamato ruler, Emperor Tenmu.
Later in the 600s, Yamato rulers adopted the tennō title (also the title used today, after an intermediate period of disuse, and which implies "heavenly ruler"). In his Imperial Politics and Symbolics in Ancient Japan: The Tenmu Dynasty, 650-800, the scholar Herman Ooms suggests three potential origins (each in Chinese philosophical, religious, and political practice) for this particular Japanese title, which aligned with the Chinese title tianhuang.