Slave catchers were of course not new, and slave patrolling was a large element of militia organization in southern states, where the enslaved population tended to far outnumber the white population. While some of these men may have been semi-professional and act as a permanently embodied force, it was more often still done under a militia officer or other officer of the peace, to organize to apprehend escapees and to communicate information to nearby areas to do the same. While I believe that saying modern police forces owe their organization entirely to slave patrols is a little reductive, there is obviously some truth in that many municipal police forces were influenced by men who were experienced in southern slave patrolling, and whose knowledge of the infrastructure for communication and cooperation was very handy for urban policing. There is also another element that often goes unexamined: the fact that slave patrols were, like municipal police forces, interested not just in the apprehension of suspected criminals (or fugitive escapees), but were interested in preventing crime, and preventing escapes. More on that a little later!
> Furthermore, internal violence among immigrant groups was, in this system, impossible to respond to, because that kind of peacekeeping was absolutely dependent on.
Well, lots of things. Historians don't really have a solid, comprehensive consensus about most individual expressions of the second industrial revolution, but certainly the change in lifeways in the city and in the country and even in individual homes and families wrought by the rapid pace of industrialization had its effect on police forces. More and more rural people came to live in cities for wage work, alongside newcomer immigrants, and as a result cities grew to tremendous size more rapidly than these customary institutions could handle. The racial, national, and linguistic differences among these new urban populations also had silo effects; the Irish would live in one part of the city, blacks in another, the Polish in another, and they could be difficult for the (probably) white sheriff elected by white city voters to create the kind of reciprocal relationship between their agent of the peace and their community when the agent of the peace doesn't speak the same language, doesn't understand cultural practices, and in many cases would probably be openly hostile and critical to their needs. Furthermore, internal violence among immigrant groups was, in this system, impossible to respond to, because that kind of peacekeeping was absolutely dependent on community cooperation and trust.
> Did the police come from slave patrols? Not really, because slave patrols and police both came from a desire to regulate society by force to keep the desired standard of those that were in control.