It might be useful to separate the reforms under Atatürk as social and economic reforms. Social reforms include the abolishment of the sultanate in 1922 and of the Caliphate in 1924, the proclamation of the Republic in 1923, the introduction of a law coalescing all education under secular state authority in 1924, the adoption of the Latin-based Turkish alphabet in 1928, removal of Islam as the official religion in 1928, the gradual granting of suffrage to women in 1930, 1933 and full suffrage in 1934, the introduction of surnames in 1934, the introduction of laicism into the constitution in 1937... The list could go on. The key is that such reforms radically transformed the social, cultural and political life of Turkey. They did cost money, after all. But why they were not super-projects costing billions by their nature. They were of crucial importance but also, in a sense, were "budget-friendly" reforms.
Interesting! I wasn't aware there was quite that much post-Armistice fighting in Anatolia. Still quite counter-intuitive that Turkey should have been able to turn things around from the really rather bad situation in 1918, without their powerful allies.
1.	It afforded recovery by reducing the costs it owed as part of the Ottoman legacy (through both fortune and policy) and adopting an étatist, high-tariff, export-oriented development policy that aimed to build national industrial capacity.
Maybe I should have tried to be more clear. I was trying to refer to the OP's question starting with "If the Ottoman Empire was in such disarray after WW1" and to the part of my post where I briefly compare the Young Turks and the Atatürk era. I assumed the OP meant to ask there "If the resources were available why the Ottoman Empire was unable to reform itself, and if not, how did Atatürk find the resources himself?" and tried to explain that the answer is the peace, which was in part brought about by Atatürk's policies and political astuteness. Hope this clarifies.
At the 1923 İzmir Economic Congress, Turkey adopted the “New Turkish Economic School,” a proto-étatist, protectionist, export-oriented economic approach. It aimed to increase private capital accumulation, establish a banking system, and foster development.
Thanks! Strange that a power on the losing side should be able to get a major concession like removing the capitulations out of the peace negotiations.