The Wehrmacht of the Second World War was not a new military phenomenon in Germany, or in the Prussian state which had united the nation in 1871. It was the latest iteration in the German armed forces, and it carried with it all the soldierly traditions of a nation whose militarist origins have been written about by many historians. Even before Hitler came to power in 1933, the Reichswehr which had come about due to the Treaty of Versailles began to immediately eschew these militaristic hallmarks which had allowed the Deutsches Heer to maintain a war on two fronts from 1914-18. As Christopher Chant rather nicely states:
Another example to prove this was the Spanish civil war: both Nationalist and republican armies included forces from a wide spectrum of political allegiances, but the Francists almost never had a problem of loyalty and trust in their commanders during the war while for the Republicans it was a constant factor they had to keep in mind.
\[2\]: Fritz, Stephen. The First Soldier: Hitler as Military Leader. S.l.: Yale University Press, 2018.
All of this resulted in French officers being in general very incompetent and sometimes even comically inept at the simple communications and manoeuvring because they never had commanded their units in the field before the war. So, to conclude we have an example of the army of the probably most democratic country of Europe being endemically plagued by the same problem you've attributed to the dictatorships.
\[8\]: Fritz, Stephen. The First Soldier : Hitler As Military Leader. New Haven: Yale University Press, 2018.
While u/Starwarsnerd has already addressed it, I would like to get back to this point: as any other as any other black-and-white notion about history this one is very far from truth: The French army of the Third Republic since it creation in 1871 till its fall in 1940 was plagued by the problem of loyalty-based vs merit-based promotions. The civil government of the republic was constantly in fear of some form of Bonapartism military coup toppling the democratic government and establishing the Third Empire, while the constant threat of the another German aggression and the revanchism forced the government to maintain potent and powerful military. This resulted in very complicated and troublesome relationship of government and army of the Republic. The officer cadre of the army became heavily factionalised into numerous groups of Republicans, Patriots and Careerists and promotion of young officer almost always required the patronage of some higher-up civil or military official which even further contributed to the formation of various cliques around the most influential officials. This "ghost of Bonapartism" did not wane even after Genera Boulanger's attempt to seize power has failed.