Please . If after doing so, you believe this was in error, or you’ve edited your post to comply with the rules, . Do not make a second post or comment.
Sometime officers are genuinely unclear on how reasonable, articulable suspicion works. I once heard an officer testify that he was permitted to detain a subject for openly carrying a handgun -- in a state where such open carry is completely legal with no license required -- because "I didn't know if he was a felon or not.".
Okay yes I agree with all of that and have always understood this… so my question really is, when you say they need the articulable facts in order to detain, then is not the culmination of the reports from citizens, the person in question acting illusive or strangely and other things that the officer may deem suspicious like filming security type areas, not enough cause for articulable suspicion as possible detainment? Especially considering that RAS is subjective.
Right. I covered that in my initial reply when I said, " Police are free to walk up to you and start asking questions, to include asking you for identification, without detaining you.".
Also lol I was meaning basically that by responding to suspicious activity reports the officer is then technically investigating those reports… anyway besides the point my questions have been throughly answered and I greatly appreciate your time in helping me.
Yes however after a cop has had reports of suspicious activity or persons then them following up on that with the said people/person is technically an investigatory questioning, right?
It’s one thing to randomly walk up to a citizen and began to question them, and then yes they can walk away and don’t have to answer any questions or provide identification but when there’s been reports on the person then it becomes investigatory does it not? And ergo they are then required to provide identification…? Answer all questions no obviously not they have the right to not answer due to self incrimination, but to provide identification, yes. ?
"Becomes investigatory," is a meaningless phrase. The Fourth Amendment is concerned only with whether the person has been detained -- whether they have been seized. An officer's purpose can be investigatory with or without a seizure. But a seizure is what transforms a consensual police encounter into one which requires certain specific levels of proof. A brief, investigatory detention is different than a brief, investigatory conversation.
It appears you forgot to include your location in the title or body of your post. Please update the body of your original post to include this information.