Pollard, A.M et al. 2012. "Sprouting like Cockle Amongst the Wheat': The St. Brice's Day Massacre and the Isotopic Analysis of Human Bones from St. John's College, Oxford." Oxford Journal of Archaeology 31, no. 1, 83-102.
But put in another way, given how violent Viking raids were and how brutally female slaves were treated - do we really have a basis to think Vikings thought it was dishonorable to kill the women they plundered, enslaved and raped ? (Outside of the trailer of a videogame of course...).
The image these sagas create is of a highly patriarchal society, where women are often little more than objects (the picture is sometimes much more complicated, but especially for lower-class women, their prospects for an independent life were quite bad). Women were very rarely supposed to be fighters, and in Gisla saga, a great fuss is made when Gisli's wife, Auðr, uses a bag of silver (intended to bribe her into revealing her outlawed husband's location) to break the nose of Eyjolfr, the man who tried to pay her off. He nearly kills her for that, but his companions make it clear that killing a woman would be a shameful act, even more so than being injured by one. This attitude, by and large, appears to be consistent, even for slaves. While male slaves are regularly used as pawns in the machinations of elite feuds, I know of no cases where killings are instigated by female slaves. In fact, in Njáls saga, when the farm at Bergþórshváll is burnt, all the servants (and, presumably, slaves) were allowed to leave the burning building unharmed. They are beneath the attention of the burners, who want Njáll and his sons, and killing them would at the very least increase the bill of the inevitable compensation. Egils saga indicates perhaps that killing your own servants in a fit of temper is bad. Egill's foster-mother, Þorgerðr brák, is slain when Skalla-Grímr enters a furious rage when his son Egill beats him in wrestling. Þorgerðr is called ambátt, which would mean a poor, free tenant, or a low-ranking concubine. In either case, she dies by being crushed under a rock Skalla-Grímr throws into the fjord while she is trying to flee, and Egill is justifiably furious, killing one of Skalla-Grímr's high-ranking servants in revenge. So, in all of these cases, it appears that killing servants or slaves, while possible, was generally thought of badly.
Certainly, they were taken captive and sold into slavery, at all ranks of society. These slaves were sometimes glorified; the 13th century Laxdaela saga praises the Irish princess Melkorka, who was taken to Iceland as a slave. Slaves would have been very common; while genetic testing has been kind of uncertain exactly how much of the modern Icelandic population is descended from irish slaves (in this case, it would be almost entirely female slaves), Irish people were probably the largest genetic group after people of Scandinavian origin. Ibn Fadlan's account of female slaves in his travels to the 'Rus, while highly stylized, also indicate that capturing women and enslaving them in labor and sexual slavery was fairly common.