So what's different in Persia? Well Iran also had a culture that fits the same description, the Elamites, but they're not Persian. They also have their own set of problems. There are fewer Elamite sources and the language was deciphered much more recently than Sumerian, Akkadian, and Egyptian. The Persians themselves do not have the same sort of uninterrupted cultural dominance. 220 years of Achaemenids, followed by the Hellenistic Seleucids and the northern Iranian Parthians (related, but more like a cousin than a direct descendent of Persian culture. By the time the Persians themselves had the same kind of cultural cache again, almost 600 years had passed and the direct connections between the Achaemenids and Sassanids were largely lost in our sources.
The first major narrative sources of Persian history probably originated in the Sassanid period, but the forms we know were only written down centuries later. Most famously, this includes the Shahnameh, the Iranian national epic, which is undoubtedly one of the most famous legacies of the ancient Persian period but still mired in all of these issues working against interest in ancient Persia more generally.
The Achaemenids become more complicated because they were simultaneously a huge point of pride for the last Shah, deposed by the current government, but also the largest and most powerful Iranian empire. Their ruins are major tourist attractions, and absurdly inaccurately propaganda from the monarchy in the 1970s gives Iran a claim to a history of human rights, which is a positive talking point for the current regime's image. The ancient empires are more popular among secular nationalist movements, but the current government doesn't promote ancient history, and can't promote any sort of continuity, in the same way as China and India.
Hi there! You’ve asked a question along the lines of ‘why didn’t I learn about X’. We’re happy to let this question stand, but there are a variety of reasons why you may find it hard to get a good answer to this question on /r/AskHistorians.