It has become increasingly recognised that pre-conquest kings had much more control over land tenure (who held what land on what terms) than historians had traditionally thought. While its true that holders of bookland (land held by charter) had more or less absolute property rights, most of the lands held by the earls and king's thegns (the Anglo-Saxon equivalent of post-conquest barons) were essentially royal manors on loan or held at farm (the holder would pay the king a regular fee in return for them) and were more attached to their offices (earl was not a hereditary title) than their persons or families. The pattern of aristocratic landholding (which was the same in post-conquest England, was to hold lots of estates scattered across the country rather than in one big bloc which meant that while inevitably some magnates would be stronger in certain areas than others none possessed territorial power bases that could potentially become autonomous principalities in the French style. This meant earls who rebelled or otherwise became too troublesome could very easily be removed from office, replaced and exiled as happened with Earl Godwin of Wessex in 1051, Earl Aelfgar of Mercia in 1058 or Earl Tostig of Northumbria in 1065. As a result, the nobility tended to incline very much towards the central government in order to gain royal patronage/ stay in good favour with the king.
Finally, the nobility were very much drawn towards having a positive relationship with the central government because they were very much included in the processes. Royal assemblies , which would be held at least three times a year, normally coinciding with the festivals of Easter, Whitsun and Christmas. These enabled earls and thegns to vote on royal legislation and foreign policy (much like later parliaments) as well as getting intimate access to the king's ear for securing his favour/ resolving their problems and disputes, and being able to bond with him over copious amounts of food and drink - anyone who has read "Beowulf" will be able to envision this pretty well. The king meanwhile was able to display his charismatic authority through ritual crown-wearing, a practice copied from the German Reich under the Ottonian dynasty which the House of Wessex from the time of King Athelstan (reigned 924 - 939) had marriage ties to, and forge closer ties with the leading men of his realm. Assemblies were normally held in royal manors located mainly in the shires of Somerset, Wiltshire, Berkshire, Oxfordshire and Middlesex (all in Southern England) so the fact that magnates from all over the country (including Northumbria, which we know from the witness lists of the charters drawn up at the assemblies) suggests that both royal authority was strong and that late Anglo-Saxon England had a very good road and bridge network - many of these roads would have been Roman ones, but others were more recent.
So then what happened? For land usage to be at the same level in the 19th century as it was in the 11th, something must have happened, and at least in my understanding England was somewhat less developed than Northern France by the Early Modern Era.
The answer is the Black Death. Land clearance continued in the 12th and 13th centuries, and with that level of land under cultivation England's population grew from roughly 2 million in 1086 to sonewhere between 4.5 million and 7 million people in 1300. The Black Death came along in the 14th century and historians are now in general agreement that more than 50% of the population of England was wiped out in the first wave of 1348 - 1349. As a result, many villages were abandoned (Wharram Percy in Yorkshire is a famous case) and vast amounts of land fell out of cultivation or were converted to pasture (sheep farming was incredibly profitable in the post-plague economy). By 1450, English population was likely back at the same level it was in 1086, and population recovery didn't really kick in again until the 1520s - huge contrast to continental Europe, where population recovery began again pretty quickly.