The earliest (probable) evidence we have for light infantry fighting with horses comes from Sicily, around 480 BC (the time of Thermopylai). Herodotos records that the army of the tyrant Gelon of Syracuse included 2000 archers, 2000 slingers and 2000 hippodromoi psiloi ("light horse runners", Hdt. 7.158.4). Now, there is a lot of debate over whether these are in fact light cavalry or light infantry, but they fit with a wider pattern in ancient warfare of infantry that serves specifically to support cavalry in battle.
These troops are a sign of a more general truth of ancient mounted warfare, which is that it seems to have been more effective when mounted troops and light infantry worked together. It is a common feature of Greek warfare for an attack to feature successive waves of cavalry, light infantry, and hoplites. The idea was for the first wave to be bolstered and made more aggressive by the knowledge that others would follow, and for enemies to be intimidated by the knowledge that if they stood their ground against the first wave, the next one would soon overwhelm them. Successive attacks of this kind (what I've called a "cascading charge") were practically never successfully resisted. The use of regular corps of hamippoi enabled a cavalry force to commit to charges of this kind at any moment.
To answer your other question, while obviously many peoples migrated across Europe en masse throughout prehistory, and people certainly journeyed across particular regions for trade, there really isn’t much evidence that people actually ‘travelled’ across the entirety of Europe during Caesar’s era and the greater iron age, although there is some speculation regarding the subject. For example, in modern day Denmark, lands then inhabited by Germanic tribes, a couple of people found in bronze age burials (such as the Eved girl and the Skrydstrup woman) were believed to have moved to Denmark from other areas of Europe sometime during their lifetimes. Recent studies seem to have disproven this claim now and so we’re back at square 1 concerning the question whether people moved across the Rhine to Europe’s more northern frontier.