Again as /u/ConcertinaTerpsichor mentions, shopping was another major activity for women of all ages. Cultivating an appearance that showed taste, refinement, and wealth was part of the required social performance. This meant patronizing the right shoemaker, the right dressmaker, the right milliner, etc. While ready-made clothes were pretty common by the time of Downton Abbey, wealthy women and those looking for a special piece (particularly for a wedding) still tended to go to custom makers. If it was within their means, they might go to Paris to patronize the couturiers like Doucer, Beer, and Worth; they might also go to London-based firms like Lucile or Redfern. In either case, that would require travel, which might also offer other occupation like visiting art exhibitions or going to the theater. (And just in general, the Edwardian elite did a lot of long-term traveling abroad.).
Once a young woman was married, she was supposed to fall pregnant fairly quickly, but until then she decorated the house, rode to hounds, built up her wardrobe, planned gardens, gave dinner parties, and attended social gatherings as a ornament to society and a credit to her husband. (Hopefully.).
Another important activity for upper-class women was charity work. In the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, this was likely to take the form of direct aid to destitute families in the local village: bringing over food from their own kitchens to supplement the meager provisions of a widow, or making baby clothes and diaper cloths for a tenant family with many children. By the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, it might be more likely to involve some sort of association or society. While the idea of women's place being in the "private" sphere is a common way of understanding gender roles in the period, charity and reform work allowed women to have a place in the public sphere that was seen as very well suited to their feminine, maternal natures: it spread the nurturing and improving influence they brought to the home out to the wider world. This is something we very rarely see in historical fiction, perhaps because it seems like a boring and conventional way of doing good.