Well first of all its doubtful Hannibal or Carthage, even with support could've properly laid siege to Rome. Rome was a massive city, with extensive fortifications and a large garrison. Sieges of cities as large as Rome or Carthage were exceptionally rare in classical antiquity. It required huge amounts of manpower and engineering skill, time to adequately siege the city for what could be years, even then you still might not be able to take it.
Hi. Sorry for the delay in responding to you. This response is just amazing. There is so much more to all of this than I had thought was even possible for us to know. You have given me a much clearer idea of what was going on versus the simplified version we had been taught in history classes -- that is to say a basic "Roman exceptionalism"/"manifest destiny" that parallels some of our own American mythos here.
1. The Carthaginians fundamentally had a different concept of war to the Romans. The Romans fought until one side was totally defeated, Hannibal himself was shocked when the Romans refused to even speak of terms after Cannae, by all rights they had lost. Under any other circumstances, Carthage would and should have won. They certainly would've gotten peace out of any of the Hellenic Kingdoms had they handed them a defeat as serious as even one of Cannae, Trebia or Trasimene, let alone all of them and the other defeats Rome suffered in the war. However the Romans realized that you are only beaten when you admit defeat, and that unique ability, at least of this Roman generation, to just keep taking hits won them the war.
Well my point in my second comment is to emphasize both that the Carthaginians also showed this stubbornness, and that the Romans still came pretty close to defeat, and were running out of being able to take punches. Also while they avoided Hannibal, the Romans actively sought battle on every other front, and against all other generals. The Scipio brothers went on the offensive in Spain time and again despite being outnumbered, if anything being far too aggressive. In Sicily Marcellus took decisive action. The Romans sought battle against both of Hannibal's brothers, despite the fact they were the invader. They were confident enough to risk taking hits against everybody but Hannibal, because they had a chance of victory. At both battles of Herdonia the Roman generals accepted battle. So even against Hannibal they were willing to risk it if they felt low on options. Even so you seem to be missing the point. This is about Rome's strategic decisions, not operational concerns. Its doubtful any Hellenic Kingdom, or tribal chiefdom could've taken one of the hits the Romans took, let alone all 3 of the massive defeats. They certainly would've sued for peace. Therefore the point is about admitting defeat in war, not refusing battle. Hoyos and Goldsworthy make the point that the Romans were shipping out soldiers to fight outside Italy even when things were at there worst and had gone to Hell in a handbasket with Hannibal.