In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
1st, it doesn't. These kinds of bills aren't meant to protect anyone. They are meant to make living publicly as a trans person harder if not impossible. I'm not going to explain why here. There are plenty of other people who have talked at lenh about it, including me in other comments elsewhere. (The secret to understanding trans issues and why this point might not be obvious is that trans people don't usually get a voice on trans issues in the public discourse outside of inconsequential spaces like this, which should tell you a lot already.). This "solution" does absolutely nothing for trans people while also putting a big target on their back. It's a "solution" for cis people, not for trans people.
Blatantly violated federal anti discrimination laws. When are people going to realize Republicans don't care whether a law is legal on a federal level or not? The absolutely vile cruelty is the point. They want members of the LGBTQ+ community dead.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
2nd, it's obviously, childishly impractical. Most buildings can't just accommodate a new bathroom being added after the fact. So that's just off the table. And if you think just adding a specialized trans or non-binary stall to existing bathrooms like how handicap stalls exist, you don't understand the issue. The stall isn't where the problem comes from and, once again, puts a target on trans people's backs while not actually solving anything. It's a "solution" so cis people don't have to think about or understand the root of the issue.
A separate “other” stall is absolutely horrifying and dehumanizing. It’s like negotiating with a terrorist and “meeting in the middle” because BoTh SiDEs This literally solves nothing. It’s also completely nonsense that “well if you have a dick women will be uncomfortable” If you’re seeing anyones junk in the bathroom, you’re doing it wrong. If someone is going around the bathroom visibly showing their junk they need to be arrested regardless of gender or what bathroom they’re doing it in.