So it would probably depend on a person's level of education and their access/proximity to literate culture, ie nobility, monastic orders, the clergy, and so on, but we have a lot of gaps to fill in and in all likelihood its probably not as exciting as you think. It also might not quite be what you're expecting!
OP's question is difficult to answer for several reasons: homogeneity over the Anglo-Saxon centuries and throughout the English-speaking lands did not likely exist in any significant way; and homogeneity is not something one finds to any absolute way within a single pre-industrial European village let alone in a geographic expanse, so we can expect that diversity of beliefs was common during the period in question.
Your reply is really good, thank you. Overall, it seems like my question is one with a very complicated and nuanced answer, with not a lot of certainty. Even something I thought I had already learned about, I.e. that dragons weren’t seen as more than giant serpents until later Times, is contradicted by your monastic chroniclers of Iona’s account. If I want to better understand this topic I’ll have to learn a lot more, about specific kingdoms in general too. Happy 2020 btw.
Witchcraft in a medical context is mentioned explicitly in a contemporary penitential, the Scrifboc, in relation to abortion, but this is most likely an active choice of language to underline the 'unnatural' nature of such an undertaking rather than an actual belief in any supernatural element.
A few notes to start with. We cannot simply assume the practices and beliefs of the Anglo-Saxons were similar to their continental antecedents in western Europe and Scandinavia. Nor should we look to the later Icelandic sagas that dominate our understanding of "Norse mythology" as a similar culture we can supplement our scattered understanding with. There are a lot of reasons for this, but they're largely subsidiary to the overall point.
That said, we can project back to understand that since a wide swath of Europeans from Ireland to Sweden and Brittany to Iceland believed in elves and that they are documented in the earliest examples of writing in English that these supernatural beings were well established and thriving during the period in question - and this was likely something that English and Celtic speakers shared during the period. But were their traditions identical (to address the question raised by /u/tholovar)? Almost certainly not.
This is a fairly common assertion, and it's one we have to be quite careful around for risk of presentism, and falling victim to a kind of post-Enlightenment/Victorian teleological idea of historical primitivism that essentially dismisses historical populations as superstitious idiots. This is a real problem with dealing with "The Dark Ages" as there's a popular tendency to overlook non-Classical sources as not scientifically important.