Yes. The German Navy's B-Dienst and the Italian Navy's intelligence service had managed to break many of the British and French naval codes. The Italians had also broken many British and American diplomatic codes, which they shared with the Germans. This let them track many Royal Navy vessels, Allied convoys and the like until, with the aid of Enigma decrpyts, the Allies worked out that their codes were being broken in 1943. The broken American diplomatic codes were very helpful to the Axis in the North African desert. These codes, especially the 'Black' code, were used by the American military attache in Cairo to send messages back to Washinon; many of these messages contained important information about 8th Army's plans, strenhs and deployments. However, the British would discover this breach in 1942, when they captured a German signals intelligence unit. This allowed the Allies to use the code to send disinformation.
See: Erlande-Brandenburg, Alain. Cathedrals and Castles: Building in the Middle Ages. New York: H. N. Abrams, 1995.
Note that this figure did not include temporary (usually summer period only) visiting merchants in the city: the government of Copenhagen, Denmark estimated in 1552 that at least 3,000 German stayed in Bergen, but Helle dismissed this estimation as too much and instead pays attention to about 2,000, based on the account of Lübeck on their attack and killing of Olav Nilsson, a Norwegian high-rank nobility in the monastery Munkaliv in 1455.
Bellon, Roger. “Trickery as an Element of the Character of Renart.” Forum for Modern Language Studies XXII, no. 1 (January 1, 1986): 34–52.
I'm less familiar with medieval architecture, but it seems strange to me that a castle would have on its façade one round and one square turret on the same scale and built in identical materials as seems to be the case here (rather than one built later as an addition, which is certainly common). The castle might be a creation of the imagination and not based upon a specific structure--though that would itself be strange, as all the other buildings are identifiable.