1. Chanukah\ is a minor holiday in the Jewish canon that has achieved outsized prominence in recent decades.
And yes, on a certain level, Chanukah was elevated in people's perceptions to compete with Christmas. Christmas culture could be (and generally still is!) pervasive to the point of being suffocating to noncelebrants in the US (which is where I'll mostly confine this answer to because it is the home of by far the largest modern Jewish community outside Israel, though similar phenomena to those I discuss here occurred in other western countries too, to various degrees- though Israel itself is quite different). When one's friends are in the school Christmas pageant or sitting on Santa's lap at the mall or decorating a Christmas tree, it's natural for one to want the same thing, as a kid. (Interestingly, part of this phenomenon came to be because Jewish merchants were often the ones selling the trappings of Christmas to their Christian neighbors- and bringing them home to their own families, to the chagrin of many rabbis and Jewish communal leaders.) Answers to this could include syncretization (the "Hanukkah bush," for example), but they could also include making traditional Chanukah customs "bigger and better," such as by increasing emphasis on Chanukah presents, Chanukah decorations, etc. (And it should be noted, this isn't a 20th century reaction, or one centered largely around consumerism- going back to the early 19th century, the separatist proto-Reform Jewish community of Charleston reacted to Christmas and their evangelical Christian surrounding culture by giving Chanukah a newly prominent place in their observance.).
Is this sort of competition with christmas related to the jewish tradition of going to a chinese/asian restaurant during christmas, or is it something unrelated that ended up developing in parallel?
Decidedly negative. Not only is khanike one of the least intuitive ways you could spell it considering English phonetics, I think that the way they promote their transliteration as "the correct one" is obnoxious. I could rant for days about how much I hate YIVO's snobby attitude about Yiddish and transliteration, however many great things they may generally do. YIVO Yiddishists are not the be all end all. (Not to mention that חנוכה is a Hebrew word that was incorporated by Yiddish speakers, so it's not even their lane!).
Lastly, I believe I read, and perhaps you could address its veracity, that zionists raised the Chanukah profile as a political idea to celebrate jewish military victory over more passive histories like passover and Purim (though nobody remembers the military victory mentioned in the megillah)?
2. Chanukah has been celebrated by Jewish families for thousands of years in various forms, and in its essence in ways not that dissimilar from how it's celebrated today.
But focusing on this can obscure the fact that we have records of centuries of Chanukah celebrations and customs before this perceived Christmas culture clash That didn't really occur until Jews were in a somewhat equitable state with their neighbors- at earliest, with emancipation in the 18th century. Beforehand, Jews wouldn't have dreamed of equating their holidays with those of their Christian neighbors and yet they had plenty of their own. Chanukah has long held a major role in Jewish foodways, with having a long and esteemed history (though not made from potatoes til quite recently) and references to doughnuts, in various forms, also can be found in Jewish literature and custom as a Chanukah food quite a way back; in general, fried food was considered to be a reminder of the miracle of the oil and thus customary. Dairy foods, as well, have been customary for centuries, and Jewish communities in different places would have their own specific customs. Various other customs, such as giving Chanukah gelt (money) to children, date back several hundred years in various forms, and there were also communal celebrations with singing and music as well as more private family parties with games, including dreidel or card games. So basically, however much one may want to do one-to-one comparisons between modern Chanukah and modern Christmas, the essence of the Chanukah celebration as a phenomenon is of long standing.
It should be noted, of course, that this reimagining is not at all unique- a major part of what I was trying to say above is that the reinvention of Chanukah is only partly because of the influence of Christmas, and in fact there have been many reasons and influences that have led to it taking the form it does today.
Great write up. Just one MINOR nitpick. The candelabra that is lit on Chanukah is specifically called a "chanukiyah". It has 9 branches (the shamash, plus one branch for each of the 8 days of the holiday). A traditional menorah is a 7 branch candelabra, and is often regarded as one of the major symbols in Judaism, often associated with the Temple in Jerusalem. Many people contemporarily use the words 'chanukiya' and 'menorah' interchangeably but it is actually incorrect to do so.