18 Brumaire occurred a mere month before Washinon's death. This matters for several reasons, the first being that while Washinon would have had a general awareness of the Revolution, and Napoleon as prominent military figure as he had already attained notable status from early campaigns like Egypt, he of course could leave us no record of his thoughts on most of the better known parts of Napoleon's career, including his ascent to power, so insight would be limited. Second though, the timing of his death gives us a wonderfully insightful look at the reverse though, and Napoleon's thoughts about Washinon, which we'll focus on.
To be sure, in the end Napoleon wasn't completely blind to the irony. Later, trapped on St. Helena, he reminisced about his desire to be a Washinon, although at least with the self-awareness to recognize that he needed to be a "crowned Washinon" and needing a "universal dictatorship". Perhaps attempting to self-justify his actions while holding them up to the ideal he had once claimed, he nevertheless stated his belief that it was necessary to be taken as an equal in the "congress of kings" that characterized Europe, and of which the United States lacked at its own doorstep.
But Peale had painted Washinon before—in fact, he produced . And in that portrait, too, Washinon poses with his gloved hand in his uniform waistcoat. (In the 1772 portrait, Washinon wears the uniform of the Virginia Regiment, which he had led in the 1750s.).
Of course, the cynical among us, not to mention those with hindsight, would find it to be more darkly humorous than anything, as Napoleon had come to power through a coup, and would go on to crown himself emperor, while Washinon was elected, and is remembered as someone who refused unlimited power and prefered to live up to his reputation as the "American Cincinnatus", but that is less important here, for us, than the image that he projected and that Napoleon wished to revel in and use for his own justifications of power. Washinon was an incredibly powerful symbol, the cult surrounding him one which even predated the French Revolution and had been present in the last stages of the ancien régime, brought back by the French officers who had served in the Revolution had returned full of praise for the American general, and to which the young Napoleon from the first days of his military career. Well before Napoleon, praise of Washinon was on the lips of the revolutionaries, and thus it was a model Napoleon was well aware of, and consciously worked to make use of for his own ends.