Firstly, the extent to which the Manchus – specifically, the Manchus as a group – ruled China is open to a considerable amount of interpretive variation. While the Qing emperors of the Aisin Gioro clan were ethnic Manchus by patrilineage and identified themselves to the Manchus as their basically divinely-appointed ruling lineage, they also mobilised other ideological components to appeal to other specific constituencies: to the Tibetans they emphasised the preceptor-donor relationship (Buddhist clerics as 'preceptors' advising temporal rulers who were 'donors' of, among other things, economic and military resources), to the Han Chinese they performed Confucian acculturation. There was definitely a component of what Mark Elliott calls 'ethnic sovereignty' to Qing rule, that is to say a consistent emphasis on the integrity of a trusted ethnic in-group to serve key military and administrative roles (organised through the Banners, themselves a multiethnic organisation in original conception), but it was always one component to Qing rule that coexisted with a broader universalism. Manchus held a privileged position in the Qing state, but they were not the Qing state as such. I think one of the better illustrations of this is in how Bannermen addressed themselves to the emperor: whereas Chinese officials referred to themselves as 'this official', Bannermen, whether writing in Chinese or in Manchu, referred to themselves as 'your slave'. The Banners could form somewhat of a distinct interest group, but they were ultimately primarily an extension of the imperial will, and not the empire's core power-brokers.
8) Ho, Ping-Ti. “The Significance of the Ch’ing Period in Chinese History.” The Journal of Asian Studies 26, no. 2 (February 1967): 189–95.
You mentioned discrimination. I wondered whether the last Emperor's puppet status in Manchukuo led to Manchus being considered Japanese collaborators? I ask because I have a friend whose family is from the Emperor's clan (Aisin-Gioro). Several of his great-uncles were policemen in the Japanese puppet state of Manchukuo, and after the area was taken by the CCP, they all changed their names to Han names and pretended not to be Manchus.
2. That Han nationalism and the desire for a multi-ethnicity-encompassing state are contradictory ideological positions and that one therefore could not be both a nationalist and an imperialist;.
9) Crossley, Pamela Kyle, and Evelyn S. Rawski. “A Profile of The Manchu Language in Ch’ing History.” Harvard Journal of Asiatic Studies 53, no. 1 (June 1993): 63–102.