In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
I know! I'd love to own a bank and control Hollywood... hell, I'd even secretly like to be a shape-shifting lizard (how cool would that be??) and even wish I had horns.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Edit: apparently I misinterpreted the parent company. I agree the government should put more resources going after the far right which is contributing to this rise.
Unlike with most major religions, especially Christianity, Judaism has a strong DE-emphasis on conversion, and (at least historically) a heavy emphasis on staying relatively insular. Conversion does happen, but the first thing a rabbi will do when someone says they want to convert is try to discourage them from doing so. This and other similar aspects of the faith results in a religion that is primarily spread by familial descent. A consequence of this is that there are a lot of people who consider themselves both Atheist and Jewish because they are ethnically Jewish but have distanced themselves from the religion.
Fair. I had misinterpreted the top comment anyways. I thought they said it was equal from both sides and the left had structured organizations condoning antisemitism. The rise in antisemitism is heavily tilted towards the right and anything from the left does tend to be condemned from the same side.
Those groups are harassing Jews in public, attacking them, defacing synagogues at the same level as the far right?
My interpretation of the parent comment was saying far left orgs commit antisemitism at the same level as the far right. If I misunderstood then let me know but the whole condescending “you clearly” is not helpful to this conversation.