"The heavy infantrymen must be deployed two deep in a double faced formation, and keep two infantrymen in front and two in the back. Between them are three light archers, so that the depth of the formation is seven men. We do find the ancient Macedonians making their phalanx sixteen men deep, occasionally twelve or ten. But because their adversaries were borne by elephants with wild beasts set loose among their formations, as we find the Ethiopians did against Alexander the Great, they also employed other methods in their wars in addition to these and for these reasons made use of such formations.
But the broad strokes of it are pretty straightforward. At the beginning of Alexei Komnenos' reign, the Byzantine Empire came very, very close to not existing at all. It lost almost all of its land and almost all of its money. A series of disastrous military campaigns, one after another, led to army after army being decimated without the resources to rebuild. This was not a sudden, sharp event, it was a gradual process of erosion culminating in a few very nasty battles. For a long time, the Byzantines had been having an increasingly difficult time recruiting native Byzantines into the armies at all, for a whole slew of reasons from currency devaluation to the changing role of the military within the political culture.
I see How interesting Thank you! Terrific write up. As a lover of history, it was just an absolute pleasure to read. Fascinating.
By 1263 it becomes difficult to even speak of a "Byzantine Army" at all. The sack of Constantinople in 1204 effectively destroyed the political entity that had existed since the classical period, leaving behind small feuding rump states led by Byzantine nobles, and the armed forces were mostly just the hired bodyguard and personal household regiments of those leaders rather than an arm of the state, plus whatever mercenaries could be recruited on an ad hoc basis.
What is this quote referring to? AFAIK, Alexander never went further into Africa than Egypt. Where would he have fought Ethiopians aided by presumably African elephants? (I know "Ethiopian" was historically used much more broadly than today.).
The still-classical military of Justinian, the fragmented and disorganized military Heraclius barely managed to whip into coherent order against the Persians and then Arabs, the diffused and defensive asymmetrical warfare Theme system deployed against centuries of constant and overwhelmingly powerful Arab raids, the ascendant and astonishingly well oiled machine of conquest in the 10th and 11th centuries, the highly centralized but largely non-Byzantine mercenary armies of the Komnenian era, and the disparate melting pot of all sorts of different raag military forces that fought in the endless civil wars of the late Byzantine period were all quite different from one another in terms of tactics, organization, makeup, and basic purpose.
Take that with a grain of salt, though, because I'm currently trying to become a public librarian. Which despite what many think, has very little reading involved.
A professional military is an institution. You can't just hire men, hand them weapons, and put them in the field and expect them to function. The traditions, training, hierarchies, accumulated expertise, and general institutional fabric are necessary.
Thanks! I wouldn't necessarily advise switching too far from your viewpoint, certainly for the 9th century thematic system, which had very limited successes in offensive campaigns. In the 10th century, the thematic infantry were kept in a square formation for pretty much the reasons you mentioned with the caveat that there are long discussions in the Praecepta about the extensive number of officers and where they were stationed in the square formation.
It was a question of access. In the ancient world, there were breeding populations of elephants in North Africa and parts of the Middle East. By the medieval period, there were not.
It's difficult to highlight an absence of evidence, however, another manual published under (or soon after the death of) Nikephoros II Phokas, called On Skirmishing, makes no reference to earlier tactics and strategies, instead keeping to very contemporary approaches of tracking the enemy, working out their size and force composition, shadowing them, and either attacking smaller raiding parties or forcing the invading force to not send out raiding parties at all. \[Three Byzantine Treaties, George T. Dennis\].