Just to let you know, your question is fine, and we're letting it stand. However, you should be aware that questions framed as 'Why didn't X do Y' relatively often don't get an answer that meets our standards (in our experience as moderators). There are a few reasons for this. Firstly, it often can be difficult to prove the counterfactual: historians know much more about what happened than what might have happened. Secondly, 'why didn't X do Y' questions are sometimes phrased in an ahistorical way. It's worth remembering that people in the past couldn't see into the future, and they generally didn't have all the information we now have about their situations; things that look obvious now didn't necessarily look that way at the time.
1. There were a significant amount of (regionally concentrated) private enterprises employing wage labor.
Thanks! So basically Song Dynasty China didn't have free market experimentation like Britain did nor had colonial holdings by which to dump commodities so the capitalist imperative for surplus production was not as pronounced, is that right?
Ekelund, R. B., Jr., & Tollison, R. D. (1981). Mercantilism as a rent-seeking society: Economic regulation in historical perspective. Texas A & M University Press.
This is a difficult question to answer straightforwardly because it is really asking about several things on which is there no historical consensus: the origins of the Industrial Revolution, the origins of the "Great Divergence," and the origins of "capitalism.".
Industrial capitalism starts in the era of mercantilism, which was more or less defined by the crowns of various large, consolidated countries selling monopoly rights to private producers in exchange for the exclusive ability to offer a product or service across the realm. This was made possible by the central state being just sophisticated and powerful enough over all of its territory to be able to enforce a monopoly uniformly. France was the gold standard when it came to this sort of thing. Monopolists would bid up the price of the monopoly for their good, the King would grant it, and use some of the money to pay state agents in all of the major cities to ensure that only this monopoly producer's goods were being sold and used. The state wasn't sophisticated enough to audit individual or business incomes to levy income taxes like we take for granted today, or at least not in any reliable fashion, and the French state realized that checking rural areas for contraband goods would be even too much effort for the returns they could expect from doing so. Having tons of towns and cities as commercial bottlenecks allowed the Kings Louis of France at the time to extract maximum revenues using this new, blunt, and effective tactic of monopoly selling.
France, while being able to develop industry quite successfully at the same time, soon fell behind English growth rates, largely because it was too successful raising revenues through its monopoly sales. And while France wasn't absent in the Age of Exploration, it was less reliant on export revenues and colonial profits than Britain, making innovation and technological improvement less imperative for French industry early on. For a Song Dynasty with a fairly sophisticated government, long-established trading partners, and very few nearby places they could conquer and force manufactured goods upon that would size up anywhere close to their own domestic economy, it's unlikely that they would find the need to have firms consolidate and compete with eachother for surplus production.
This is surprising to learn! But my point was really more about capitalism than the quantity of iron produced. I extracted the quote to show: