The draft did lead to severe lack of staff and "Special Constables" (volunteers) were largely used instead of regular police. The Special Constables were established much earlier but in the past their presence required "tumult, riot, or felony". In 1914 "The Special Constabulary Act" updated their duties "during the present war". That limitation was in turn abolished in 1923.
Most countries considered fire fighting and medical personnel as vital especially given the fears of strategic bombing in the inter-war period and they were less likely to be drafted into combat units and if they were drafted they were usually drafted to be military fire-fighters or medics.
There was women police in Weimar, yes. After the WWI and the large losses of male population, women were becoming more dominant in society and they could vote. It was kinda empowering. In 1923 Cologne was the first city to recruit women officers. The inspiration came from the British, who had left some occupying forces in town after the First World War. Josefine Erkens was it's main activist who had bigger political agenda and was often invited to give lectures in other European countries and even spoke before the League of Nations (the early UN). Just like their British counterparts, the German women police concerned themselves with welfare matters (and were named Welfare Police, Weibliche Kriminalpolizei). They had patrols looking after vulnerable youth and prostitutes. By 1927 female units had formed in other towns but their systems were all different, some had uniforms and some worked in civilian clothing, some dealt mainly with juvenile offenders, victims and witnesses. In 1937 there was a reorganisation in the German police force and every major department of Criminal Police had a female section, although their new duties were completely different and suited to the new political atmosphere in the country. After WW2 the female units remained in existance within the Kriminalpolizei in the three western zones of occupation, altough working mostly on moral and property offences. The separate female units were disbanded in the 1970s when another major reorganisations took place.