After going through a few things, I am reasonably confident that Facchinetti is merely providing the reader with a bit of context or, better, reminding them of a period which they have cursorily examined during their school years. Fascist violence was, indeed, a thing. I would also maintain that the week Alfonsina Strada spent in the South during May 1924 was not the first time she heard of it. Being born in Castelfranco Emilia, living between Bologna, Milan and Turin, and, albeit modestly, traveling the country more than other women of here times were used to – and, also, being of an age to understand the general political climate and its impact on people – she could not have been unaware of what probably was the dominant factor of Italian social and political life during the 1919-25 period: the conflict between socialism and fascism.
Thank you for your response. The book is called "Gli Anni Ruggenti di Alfonsina Strada," and as the title suggests, it was written in Italian. I did a rudimentary translation for my own research but to make sure I am not posting the quote incorrectly, I will include the Italian version with the whole paragraph. It is: " Dal canto suo Alfonsina apprese cose mai sentite prima: le prepotenze fasciste che prima e dopo le elezioni di aprile si erano verificare un po’ in tutto il Paese, soprattutto lì nel sud, dove si erano trasformate in vere e proprie violenze; erano numerosi gli esponenti socialisti e communisti malmenati e picchiati dalle squadracce in camicia nera. Insomma, alla vita grama si era aggiunta anche l’inquietudine derivante da quel clima intimidatorio. ".
By 1920, reignited by the periodical resurgence of occupations, strikes and violence, driven in turn by the cyclical character of agrarian employment, the fascist movement had begun to grow thanks to the significant influx of funds and men provided by the agrarian owners, anxious to establish a force, both practical and political, of “order” to counteract the socialist threat.
Starting with late 1920, the tide begun to turn, with the administrative victories of the socialist forces resulting in a progressive impasse of ordinary activities, due to the passive resistance of owners and traditional groups as well as to the rapid increase of fascist organized violence. First the labor organizations and socialist sections, then the administration themselves were forced to close or disband, leaving laborers caught between jumping to the fascist unions, which could perhaps secure them some form of employment, or sticking to the socialist and catholic ones, hoping for a new reversal of fortunes.
By the end of 1921, most of the socialist organizations were collapsing – which resulted in a partial subsidence of social conflict, since, in very practical terms, there was no longer a labor organization to provide the persistent local attempts to secure some concessions from the owners with come general coordination. It was still necessary to dismantle the administrations and to prove the absolute Fascist command of the local territories. The last centers of socialist resistance: the city of Andria and the old center of Bari Vecchia fell in July 1922, a significant step on the way to Rome. By then, wherever social conflict and socialist activities had been stronger, Fascism appeared triumphant.