So with African slavery a major force, your question could be framed simply in economic terms – why did chattel slavery not take hold in Mexico. This can be partly answered with chattel slavery being introduced at a later point, when Mexico (the earliest Spanish American possession) had already developed a different economic system – one especially focused on the important silver mines.
In contrast, the earlier colonial centres of Mexico and Peru developed a different economic focus, with the silver mines providing the main income. There the extremely deadly labour (esp. in Potosí in the Andes) was mostly carried out by indigenous people, since African slaves were seen as "too expensive" for this (note the absurd logic here). Instead, many Africans did also work in less dangerous positions connected to the mines, e.g. in the mints.
This genetic and bioarchaeogical data can help us uncover the emerging population structure following contact. I love how we can use the expertise of our scholars here to combine genetics, archaeology, history, and demography to explore the complexity of the population structure of colonial Mexico!
Thanks for the kind words. A great question and reminder to look into that book! Absolutely, native slavery did continue in colonial Mexico and Spanish America. But after the mid 16th c. only certain groups were allowed to be enslaved, ones as you mention described as especially “barbarous” or “warlike”. At the same time, many other indigenous people (and also Afro descendant in smaller numbers) continued to work under slavelike conditions through the encomienda and later the repartimientos.
This distinction between forms of slavery as seen with Mexico - together with the different social systems - meant a much higher mixity between Africans, indigenous people and Europeans. This in turn means less visibility for the forms of slavery that did exist in colonial Latin America.
Of course your question was more on such slavery in colonial Mexico. I haven’t come across in-depth studies on this yet, but it seems that this practice also continued into the 17th c. at least. This pertained to the “warlike” population groups mentioned, so esp. the northern Mexican Chichimeca; but also the Araucanians in southern Chile among others:
- On Afro descendants in current Mexico: Here's a including some stats, and , with Afro-descendientes from p. 87 onwards - could only find them in Spanish.
The other, maybe more important answer here is that in Mexico – in contrast to your other examples – Africans early on mixed with other groups. This meant that already by the 18th c. mixed descendants of Africans made up roughly 40% of the colonial population. By Mexican independence in the early 19th c. this trend had increased even more, and black slavery had virtually disappeared. This did not mean, of course, that other forms of forced labor for native and black people were not still in place.
In addition, especially in Mexico Asians above all from the Philippines started be brought over to work under slavelike conditions. Usually their categorization was not clear then, so they have only been investigated more in recent years. Again, from van Deusen (a lenhier quote but I think it sums it up well):