1. I work on disability history, and this panel sounded familiar because there are challenges to applying modern terms onto past bodies when the term would have no meaning. One way to think of disability in the past is variability, or looking at anything referred to as a difference or deviation from the norm without attempting to medicalize or diagnose a disability. You touch on a lot of this in your discussion, so could you talk more about this idea of variation in gender/queer history and how even looking at people who identify as masculine or feminine, we learn boundaries and the meaning behind crossing them?
1. The whole thing about "they were only friends" is to me problematic, because even if they were - couldn't they have been gay friends? I feel at times queer people can fall into a trap trying to argue that certain people were definitely romantically involved or had sex to appease the sexual norm, following the bar set up by heteronormative historians to begin with. You talked about different kinds of erasure of people's identities, but I see a danger in focusing on the sexual or romantic act as being the defining proof of queerness because it can easily erase any form of queer community from history. Speaking for myself, my sexuality doesn't just change how I relate to people when it comes to attraction, it changes how I get friends and how I create a shared experience of lesbianism. And this also becomes a problem for trans people, because the normal criteria for how to determine if someone is queer is through what sexual acts they perform. Not to mention that asexual people get written out completely, either by not being recognized as queer at all or being rewritten to be homosexual since that's easier to conceptualize to most compared to something like a Bambi lesbian.
Thanks to all the panel! I was curious where you see the field going in terms of navigating the issues you raise here about the complexity of historical identity. Is there change underway? Where would you like to see the field going?