First and foremost it's important to understand how a Prime Minister comes to take office. The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is not and has never been elected and can serve an unlimited number of terms with no set lenh. The power to appoint a Prime Minister lies exclusively with the King or Queen of the day and upon appointment, they are said to serve at His or Her Majesty's pleasure, meaning they can continue in office indefinitely. The Monarch in theory is entitled to appoint literally anyone as Prime Minister at any time, or to dismiss a current Prime Minister at any time. In practice however, the growth of the power of Parliament - with the House of Commons made up of several hundred directly elected Members of Parliament representing different parts of the British nation - means that any appointment the Monarch makes must be able to command the confidence of the House of Commons. This means that the Prime Minister must be someone the Monarch is confident could win the support of an overall majority (50% + 1) of MPs if the Commons was asked to vote on whether or not they have confidence in the Government they lead. There is no requirement for a vote to be held to confirm a Prime Minister, although in practice until very recently, UK Governments and Prime Ministers submitted themselves twice yearly to votes to determine if they had Parliament's support (the Queen's speech - a statement of the government's plan for the upcoming year year - and the annual Budget; until a legal change in the last decade, a defeat on either was taken to be a rejection of the Government).
As such, the normal transfer of power between Prime Ministers occurs either because a Prime Minister has resigned voluntarily (in which case he or she simply tells the Monarch who their party's next choice for PM is, as David Cameron and Theresa May both did after resigning in the last few years) or because a general election has occurred and their party has lost. The latter last happened neatly in 1997, when the outgoing Conservative PM John Major went to the Queen and asked her to invite the Labour leader Tony Blair to form a government after Labour won a landslide at the previous day's general election. In the event that the balance of power in the House of Commons is unclear prior to a change in the law in 2011 the Prime Minister of the day was always in modern history, by virtue of being the first to see the Monarch, the first person given a chance to form a government. Thus the Commons rejecting a Prime Minister through a vote of no confidence does not automatically lead to the PM's dismissal if no other person in Parliament is capable of putting together a government to replace them and prior to that law change in 2011, if a Prime Minister lost the confidence of the House, they had the right to seek an early election instead of resigning. This last happened in 1979 when Labour Prime Minister James Callaghan lost a confidence ballot by a single vote after the Scottish National Party put forward a vote of no confidence; although minor parties have no such right in the House of Commons, this inspired Conservative leader Margaret Thatcher to bring an official motion of no confidence forward. Had Callaghan opted to resign instead Thatcher would have been invited to form a government and called the early election anyway, which she went on to win comfortably. The situation is more complicated if a Prime Minister is forced out by their own political supporters - no one can force them to resign and when she was challenged for the Tory leadership in 1990, Thatcher briefly toyed with the idea of remaining on as Prime Minister until the 1992 general election, using the threat of an early election to discourage her MPs from formally voting no confidence in her. Had she done so, this would have sparked a constitutional crisis of immense proportions as the Queen would have had to choose between doing as her Prime Minister instructed - the proper constitutional thing to do - and obeying the higher constitutional principle that, with the support of a majority of MPs, the new Tory leader should be appointed PM instead and Thatcher dismissed.
And to finish on a brief point more widely that reflects how quirky Britain's constitutional affairs can be, the death of a Prime Minister alone in a crisis like this is arguably more disruptive (mechanically, not politically) to the smooth workings of government than the loss of the entire Cabinet. The UK's main opposition party forms an entity known as the Shadow Cabinet to oppose the actual Cabinet, with the opposition party appointing a spokesperson to 'shadow' (mirror) each member of the Cabinet. In day to day political life it is the job of these Shadow Cabinet members to hold their counter-parts in the Government to account and debates on major legislation are lead by Cabinet and Shadow Cabinet members. The Shadow Cabinet is also expected to be able to form a government in the event of a national emergency that means the actual Cabinet has been completely incapacitated and can no longer function; although it's very difficult to imagine a scenario were that would need to happen with today's incredible electronic communication, in the event of something like a mass assassination, political leadership would not keep passing down the hierarchy of the ruling party but would most likely pass to the opposition party. For this reason - and in the interests of national unity - the Leader of the Opposition is frequently included in government briefings on major national security crises, like terrorist attacks, both to ensure unity across party on such issues and to ensure continuity of essential knowledge. This is how UK governments can change hands without a transition period following an election: the Civil Service works with the Shadow Cabinet during the months leading up to an election to make provisional plans to implement their political agenda and provide them with essential knowledge, allowing a new government to take office without the need for a handover between parties.
The role of Prime Minister as we understand it today is a relatively novel invention in the British constitution; there was no single point in history at which the majority of political leadership responsibility passed to the role that we now call Prime Minister, and its powers and responsibilities accrued gradually over the course of time. Until the 20th century the term 'Prime Minister' was a kind of political slang that was sometimes even used mockingly and disparagingly, rather than as an official job title. Even today the role of Prime Minister is not alone in and of itself enough to ensure the authority to lead a government - the men and women appointed Prime Minister are also simultaneously appointed to other positions. Within the UK's constitutional framework the Prime Minister is said to be primes inter pares in the Cabinet, meaning first among equals. In other words on paper, the job of the Prime Minister is to chair meetings of the most senior members of the government but in theory to have no more or less say in its final decisions than any other member of the Cabinet. In practice modern Prime Ministers derive their unique status as leaders from two facts: they are the duly elected leader of their political party (which in most years will have an absolute majority of MPs in Parliament), and they have the unique power of being able to appoint or dismiss other members of the Cabinet.
(I should also just briefly qualify here that the Cabinet has grown much larger in size and scope over the decades and centuries, and that governments of the 18th and 19th century were much smaller than governments today are, which further complicates picking any successor if the decision falls to other government leaders. More than 35 people currently attend Cabinet, and there are about 140 other junior non-Cabinet party political roles in the Government, most occupied by MPs. This contrasts with the dozen or so major ministers William Pitt the Younger had.).
Follow up question: I've done plenty of recreational research into American continuity of government operations, and its evolution, esp. with the development of nuclear weapons and their c2 functions. That structure parlayed itself well when Reagan was incapacitated, Bush jr was away from a secure command and control point et cetera. Does the UK have that same kind of institutional knowledge and framework to fall back on?