I have no faith in the latest fad - no matter the decade. History-related research based on facts and interpretation builds on itself, and it is is important to know what has been written, but how it was written is only a matter of the seasonal garment that is fashionable at the time - and that is guaranteed to fall out of fashion with the next season.
I think we are! I was going to add a \\ saying "I'm pretty sure we actually fully agree on this", but decided against trying to put words in your mouth. I don't think anything I said contradicts your points at all. If anything, the single big revolution in historical theory is the rejection of single big revolutions in historical theory, and the embrace of multiplicity.
Yes! Vladímir Propp (1895–1970) wrote a fascinating work on the folktale, published in 1928. The core of his observation - that folktales exhibit a shared structure - seems clearly valid. Where that observation was taken is the problem - both in the Soviet Union and then in the US after his work was translated into English in 1958. The following are paragraphs from my newly released (2018):
I'd broadly second everything said above by the esteemed u/itsallfolklore, but would perhaps be slightly more encouraging of exploring some of the methodological innovations of recent years, which are quite varied and useful even if not as epic as Bloch and co managed (for the record, I would say the closest is the hardly-recent 'cultural turn' - in the same way that a generation ago pretty much everyone was doing social history in some way or other, now it's hard to find anyone not doing some form of cultural history).
Can't agree more. I will say that the one "fad" that seems to be sticking around is transnational history. I think the current iterations of the transnational fad - borderlands, and placing everything in a global context - will die down, but transnational historical study will continue to be important and evolve further.
Hah! I really like the fridge and TV metaphor. I personally don't see any contradiction between materialist and cultural approaches. If we take the study of nationalism, for instance, we can and should point to structural factors pertaining to the evolution of the nation state. But they alone do not fully explain the way in which the nation is understood and imagined - why people cry at national anthems (is that a thing?) or might choose to sacrifice themselves in its name. The way we experience material reality is shaped by culture, which in turn affects the way material reality develops. Understanding one without the other seems incomplete to me.