Shortly after occupying Egypt, Alexander the Great decided to found a city. A dream - or so Plutarch says - led him to the site: an isthmus near the Canopic mouth of the Nile, where a small island created a sheltered harbor. Once he had decided on the location, Alexander ordered his architects to outline the walls and streets of the new city. Since no chalk was at hand, the king impulsively ordered barley from his supply train to be used instead. (Plutarch goes on to note that the barley was immediately devoured by birds, whereupon Alexander's quick-thinking soothsayers assured the king that this was an omen of future prosperity.).
If we read past the gloss of the euphemistic pro-Alexander tradition represented by Arrian or Plutarch, and consider the information found in 'Vulgate' sources such as Curtius, Justin and Diodoros, we find that Alexander's city foundations were not simply an altruistic introduction of urbanism to rural hinterlands, an expeditious settlement of Greek civilian populations, or even much of a reward for Alexander's troops. Rather, these cities were founded through the forced relocation of existing populations, many of which were relatively urbanised, and placed them in tandem with troops whose affection for Alexander may have dwindled if they ever had any, but who nevertheless might be expected to regard the local population even less favourably. They cast off 'dead weight' from the army in the form of its long-suffering veterans (Macedonian and Greek), and they also allowed Alexander to drop experienced but politically unreliable Greek troops in a place as far away from Greece – and therefore anti-Macedonian agitators who might appreciate an injection of skilled manpower – as possible.
Some of the new cities (e.g. Syracuse) quickly became larger and wealthier than any of the cities in old Greece. Alexandria, likewise, would eventually be the greatest of all Greek cities. Sophisticated inhabitants of old Greece reserved their snobbery for the poorer corners of the colonial world, like Soloi, whose supposedly wretched accent gave rise to the Greek (and our) word "solecism.".
The technological abilities of Europeans in the 16th-19th centuries greatly proved more violent and more effective at suppressing local resistance, and encouraged exploitation through safe overseas trade.
They did. Sometimes, in fact, their colonies were nothing more than political reorganizations of existing cities (this was especially common in densely- populated Mesopotamia). Even where the city was new, it was almost always in a place with natural advantages (water supplies, etc.) that had attracted settlement for centuries.
That's really interesting. I always assumed Ancient Greeks just 'colonized empty spaces' but I always found it weird that there were not 'natives' in these prime pieces of real-estate/strategic locations.