"...is through the comparative method, which they do not use and could not use in a language contact situation such as this. ".
The first, the Neolithic Irish, rests on the fact that most Neolithic inhabitants of Europe were a genetically distinct population deriving from Anatolia. Since the spread of agriculture in Europe was primarily a movement of this specific people group, it stands to reason that they brought their language(s) with them into Europe. What these languages were isn't well understood; a widely discredited theory states that Proto-Indo-European spread with these farming peoples. Linguist Peter Schrijver (you'll be hearing his name a lot here) has proposed that these Neolithic languages were related to Hattic, an ancient indigenous language of Anatolia by analyzing substrate vocabulary across various Indo-European languages. He finds that they both share a unique feature: a suffix (h)a- which alters the semantics of a word very little but triggers vowel reduction inside the stem. He goes on to compare Hattic and the aforementioned substrate to Minoan and Sumerian. The Neolithic Irish people may well have spoken one of these Neolithic languages.
For the third one, there are some inexplicable words only in Irish. Among these is partán "crab". There are a people called the Partraige in early Ireland, nearly always subjects, living in a mountainous area (a common refuge for besieged indigenous populations), whose name is derived from the aforementioned partán. Schrijver proposes that this language gave a substrate to Irish. This language could have survived as late as 500 AD. Schrijver proposes that either Partraige or The Language of Geminates could have affected Irish word order.
- A substrate found solely in Irish, which might correspond to the language of the Partraige people of early historic Ireland.
For the second one, there exists a shared set of foreign vocabulary in Celtic, Germanic and Finnic. These words often alternate between a geminate consonant, nasal+stop sequence, and a long vowel+short consonant, a variation inexplicable except via borrowing. Many of these words are transparently Indo-European, however. Schrijver proposes an Indo-European language spoken in the British Isles, Northern Europe and Scandinavia which he calls "The Language of Geminates". He further proposes that, among groups which spoke this language, the Manapioi and Kaukoi tribes of ancient Ireland should be included.