For this discussion, I'll keep it specifically tailored to the peasants (aka the vast majority of the population) as per your question, but if you're curious I also did a similar write-up that traced the fortunes of the sans-culotte throughout the Revolution:
Mann, Patrice. “Les Insurrections Paysannes De L'Ouest: Vendée Et Chouannerie.” Revue Française De Sociologie, vol. 30, no. 3/4, 1989, pp. 587–600.
I know it can be frustrating for some that the answer to many historical questions is 'it depends', but I hope understanding why it depended, and what it depended upon, helps that go down a little better Of course let me know if you have any follow-up questions or need clarification.
Edelstein, Melvin, and Michel Vovelle. “LA PLACE DE LA RÉVOLUTION FRANÇAISE DANS LA POLITISATION DES PAYSANS.” Annales Historiques De La Révolution Française, no. 280, 1990, pp. 135–149.
Of course there is a wide spectrum between Jacques and Jean-Marie, but I wanted to have a little fun demonstrating how VASTLY different a peasant-- someone with the exact same job, exact same income-- could experience the Revolution. Let's end with some generalizing. Financially, most peasants were better off after 1789 than they were before, though keep in mind the ravages of war wore them thin in many places. However the abolishing of tithes and seigniorial dues was a permanent gain from the Revolution-- not even the restored Bourbons were able to bring it back. The lands acquired during the Revolution also were a fait accompli, lands that had been sold off or taken over during the Revolution were NOT returned to the church or émigrés upon the ascension of Napoleon, nor the restored Bourbons. In many places peasants were able to make great gains in land, either by dividing up the commons, acquiring church lands or noble lands, or encroaching on forests. The abolishing of internal customs systems and a rationalization of the economy and tax structure would also make France more fiscally solvent.
John Markoff. "The Abolition of Feudalism: Peasants, Lords, and Legislators in the French Revolution". (Pennsylvania State University Press. 1996.).