Another important point to bring up is that Muslim historians began as Hadith authors, not as historians in the Greco-Roman sense. For those unaware, Hadith are, in short, stories with a religious significance, usually regarding an event in Muhammad's life. Most importantly, when it comes to Hadith, their authors are expected to retell them as accurately as possible to the source materiel, and to write down their sources, in the form of a chain of individuals, preferably as close to Muhammad or his Companions as possible. For example, "So says X, who heard it from Y, who heard it from Z etc." What this means for our purposes is that early Muslim historians simply weren't interested in using Greek or Roman sources, because they had little or nothing to do with Muhammad or Islam and weren't considered to be particularly trustworthy either.
On a fundamental level, the stories surrounding Heraclius and other such individuals are part of the early (7th to 8th centuries) Muslim historians' quest to seek legitimacy, be it political or religious (against other Muslims, mind, not against Christians or other faiths). As Christians and Jews held an incomplete, but at least somewhat accurate, version of the true faith, and since their theological beliefs were already (from a Muslim viewpoint) solidly built over the centuries, they were sometimes employed as agents in this quest for legitimacy.
To put it briefly, in Islamic theology, Christians and Jews are considered "peoples of the Book", who hold an incomplete version of the true faith. Unlike polytheists, they are not considered non-believers, but rather their religious freedom ought to be respected in exchange for payment of a special tax. The general narrative regarding the Muslim conquests of Byzantine territory wasn't just that the Muslims were righteous, but also that the Roman Christians had fallen into sin, something which could (and, in the eyes of Medieval Muslim historians, did) happen in Islam as well.
Very true when those words were written. And it's still something you run in to, but less so, especially the more you go back.