In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Eh. Heard this before in 2016. The GOP was completely against trump all the way and he kept winning their primaries. Then the tide shifted when he won the nomination. They may not want him but if he wins primaries vs whatever stooge they put up, they'll kiss the ring just like last time.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
"I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth" "I plead the fifth".
Away. They keep losing like they have been and fracture completely. Their fracture may inspire the Democrats to split to more progressive and more conservative positions, with the Conservative Democrats absorbing some of the more moderate Republicans.
How so? Sure some people he endorsed lost their general elections but that's not what we're talking about here. They won their PRIMARIES. And this is what Trump will continue to win himself. The republican primaries is basically only the base of the party voting, and trump still clearly has that locked down. The GOP propaganda machine is trying to turn that ship with FOX and others pivoting hard to go soft on Trump, but I think it may be too little too late. DeSantis may be a good candidate on paper, but it's not what's on paper that gets the republlican base to show up. Its the charisma and charm and preachy candece and shock value that Trump brings that they want and will show up to vote for.