1. Yes it was somewhat normal for soldiers of that age to enter into the army and stay retained. In this period (the late 1800s) the US Army was much much smaller than it is today. There were less than 40,000 total servicemen across all of the branches.
Otherwise, your contribution raises a host of interesting possibilities. Unfortunately, I don't know anything else about his life or how to get additional information. I tried finding his grave on findagrave.com with no success. But even if the information doesn't apply direction to my great-grandfather, it's still an interesting window on history!
3. At this time the US Army in California was at the tail end of the Indian Wars. While there countinued to be some conflict with Native American tribes into the 1900s, the period known as the Indian wars in US Military History ends in the 1890s as most significant resistance had been defeated or treaties had been signed with native tribes.
It's not really clear what he was doing. It looks like he could have missed all the large California Indian Wars. There would have been a few skirmishes in the years between the end of the major battles and his discharge. For example, there was a conflict in 1887 in Round Valley when settlers invaded and commenced settlement on lands set aside as a reservation. But the feds were on the side of the Indian agent in that affair. It was the local governments that were working against the natives (and the Indian agent) in favor of the trespassing settlers. Following the creation of reservations, the role of the Army in Northern California was largely to keep the natives on the reservations and to protect them from conflicts instigated by the surrounding white settlers.
P.s. I specialize in 20th century US military history, so while this period is close, it’s a little outside my sweet spot. The US military in the 1890s was no very different from the US army in the early 20th century though, or for any period pre-1940 except for periods of large conflicts that required an extra influx of men and material. Feel free to ask any questions and I will do my best to answer them!