First, let me give some very broad generalisation that apply to the armies of many ancient societies in Europe and the near east. Obviously, tactics, equipment and formations differed between these societies, but we can observe a few commonalities:
Thanks. Those are good points. I did indeed imagine solid lines in circle-like shapes. I do see now that this does not make practical sense.
Military history doesn't shy away from applying understandings from other disciplines such as sociology or psychology. More recent scholarship on battle is mostly combat psychology - what makes troops willing to fight, to stay in the fight, etc. In addition, there are historical examples that can be cited as evidence (direct or comparative). Scholarship on Cannae has engaged significantly with theories of what exactly happens in an encirclement and why it is effective, since Cannae has been studied and praised as a "perfect battle" since at least the Early Modern period.
Thanks. It sounds like the high level answer is that armies in general didn't turn to meet an encircling force because doing so is extremely difficult. So when a linearly deployed army is flanked what typically did happen? Surely the column of soldiers the very end of the line didn't all continue to look only straight ahead while enemy soldiers stabbed them in their sides. Did each person in the column turn 90 degrees becoming essentially a one-person deep row facing 90 degrees to the rest of the line?
Third, battlefield communication in classical warfare was primitive and often ineffective. Once the infantry line had engaged, it was very difficult to reform and redeploy. Soldiers on the front are too busy trying to kill, and not be killed by, the guy in front of them. In the noise of battle, a shouted order might only be clearly audible for a few meters, necessitating extensive repetition and distortion of orders along the line. And even if you could hear an order to withdraw and reform the line, can you really act on it when you are locked in battle with someone trying to kill you? And if you reploy reserves eithout pulling the front ranks back, too, you risk leaving the line unsuported and vulnerable to collapse. Thus, mid-battle orders were usually restricted to ordering uncommitted reserves or cavalry to reinforce or exploit a particular weak point in the line, with no real attempt to reconfigure already committed formations.
I'm not familiar with Gray's book but it seems to be mostly a memoir. Personal accounts and collections of eyewitness testimony are not a bad place to start, perhaps, but not very likely to give you the big picture. Keegan's Face of Battle is the classic work in this form of military history but by now quite outdated. You might start instead with J.A. Lynn's Battle: A History of Combat and Culture (2003) or mine Meineck and Konstan's Combat Trauma and the Ancient Greeks (2014) for bibliography.