The term American Revolution is misleading. There was a revolt against British authority, true, but the colonies had already been self-governing in many ways, with a legislatures and a governing elite. It was that governing elite that met, in the Continental Congress, and tried to respond to what they saw as unjust impositions of British authority and taxation, and, when things escalated, revolted. The Declaration of Independence certainly had grand Lockean rhetoric about governments being instituted among men, but the Articles of Confederation that followed were a short, practical description of the working arrangement by which the colonies would revolt. Yes, there was a great deal of dithering and over-reaction and great differences of opinion ( and less visionary thinking than improvisation) but the colonial governments did not really fall apart. The main agents of British authority, the Royal Governors, were replaced by members of the colonial governing elite. This is why you do see better names for the conflict- like The War for American Independence.
Experience matters. It's hard to underrate how important over 100 years of self-governance and "salutary neglect" were to the relatively peaceful development of the new American republic. By contrast, not only was class conflict likely more visceral in regions like Haiti or Mexico, but the lack of a political class with broad experience at all levels with often frustrating republican traditions of compromise and power sharing, obviously matters.
And that's frankly just the tip of the iceberg. The 1790s in particular were a time of extreme political partisanship that really was only exceeded in the Civil War era. The Federalists and Jeffersonian (Democratic-) Republicans really viewed each other as threats to social and political stability, and became proxies of the British and French respectively in the French Revolutionary Wars (with members of each political faction receiving funding from their respective allies on occasion).
This is a very interesting post! It contrasts with another view I've seen of the American War of Independence, whereby it is actually a Revolution because even if the colonial elites remained at the top it produced profound social and cultural changes and would have led to political changes had the elites not rallied to stop them. Under this view, movements like Shay's Rebellion were natural follow-ups to the Revolution and needed for it to be complete - and the response, the forming of a stronger Federal government capable of facing such threats, is essentially counterrevolutionary. What do you think of this view?
Yes, the Constitution was counterrevolutionary. There were plenty of radicals and disaffected people voicing their opinions who would have gone further. But they did not take part in the Philadelphia convention, and didn't play a part in the ratification process , either. But, as I say above, the structures put in place during this time did allow for a more democratic republic to emerge- mostly after 1800.