The Russians we occasionally interacted with in Eve Online (internet spaceships) certainly understood the concept.
Eh. At least the game and the real situation are both about communication and planning and the security thereof. And furthermore was referencing representatives of the nationality in question.
Eh... It's certainly possible that all these locations happened to have totally random accidents at the same time. Now about that bridge I was about to sell you.
The Iranian regime spent many years building terrorist organizaitons and cells throughout the world to frighten its enemies from retaliating on its soil (this is also why they seek nuclear weapons), this caused this false sense of security which you and others may have had but you aren't safe because of its power, you are (or were) safe because Iran's shenanigans weren't significant enough to warrant said countries to smack you directly and risk escalations.
Iran's main foes that have capable militaries (Israel and the US, as opposed to KSA for example) were always able to strike Iran if it escalates to full war, the main thing that they focused on were shadow wars, attacks that stay below the threshold of escalation to war, attacks that allow plausible deniability like "oh it was just a gas leak explosion, not an attack", assassinations and sabotage.
\- Sitting around waiting for nothing, talking about whatever with people from around the world? Absolutely enjoyable!
In addition, as long as the nuclear deal talks were relevant, they did not want to hinder the chance of success by having open hostilities, now its practically dead and they are assisting Russia and people don't like that.
The damage of war on economies, even of unrelated countries (due to globalization of the industry) as we see in Russia/Ukraine is why countries avoid unnecessary wars even when they are needed, they delay the inevitable, this is also great for politicians because no one wants the stain of warfare on his shift in the short run.