It seems rather odd that you would compare the practice of chattel slavery, in which the enslaved person had absolutely no rights under law, to the practice of impressment, in which a man would be required to serve at sea under nautical discipline but in full possession of his rights as a person, and recourse to naval authorities for grievances.
Thank you! This is very interesting, though I guess sort of the opposite of what I had imagined. I didn't think it was unreasonable to wonder if anyone at the time had connected the two practices in the same rhetorical/political space, but I guess this is the best I can expect. I really did just hope that there was greater outcry about impressment at the time than there seems to have been, but I suppose it wouldn't have persisted for as long as it did if that were so. Thank you again.
Somewhat related and to offer an example it did become a point of argument briefly in the Granville Sharp & co / Ben Franklin & co debate smashing America / England (respectively) about slavery, with England abolitionists identifying hypocrisy in America and America's claim being the English originators threw slavery upon America. Franklin responded a few months after Granville shamed the colonies in with an anonymous letter sent to and published Jan 30 1770 in The Public Advisor, a London newspaper. It was prefaced with;.
I think one of the overall points that you may not have seen if you didn't look at my posts first is that there is a pretty large part of time where impressment isn't a big deal -- men would take their imprest and cash it, then show up more or less cheerfully for their limited service for a summer cruise. It's during the crisis of manning during the later part of the Napoleonic wars that you start to see stories of men being dragged off suddenly and stuck on board ships for years. In either case, my point is not to minimize the experience of impressment, but to argue that it's much more like conscription in WWI or WWII than being trafficked into a lifetime of chattel slavery.
Sure, there were lots of comparisons (hyperbolic and less so) to slavery throughout the colonial period; the enslaver Thomas Jefferson complained of his loss of liberty to the British. But the OP's question read to me as "after slavery was abolished did people argue against impressment," hence the answer.
But to answer your question, no, there was not, because impressment was not practiced after 1814 and slavery was not outlawed in the British empire (except in Sri Lanka) until 1833.