Hello! Thanks for the opportunity for an interesting panel. I have a couple of questions in mind, but I'm on a train, so maybe it's a bit too incoherent. But here goes.
Just to make it really clear (as the other answers talked more about general trends across all dynasties): Sun Quan had previously been given the title of King (Wang) of Wu by Cao Pi, which not only gave him "noble" rank, it also made the dependent-state of Wu his personal fief - in the Han system, dependent-states were basically like commanderies converted into personal fiefs within the empire, to which the Duke/Prince/King was entitled the revenues and had some degree of autonomy over. This particular title given to Sun Quan didn't mean much since in practice Sun Quan already controlled Wu and much more territory which he wasn't "entitled" to, but it's still where the name Wu comes from when he formally declared independence.
3. I refuse to touch the Imjin War itself because scholars on both sides are still too political. So I don't know.
I understand between Tang and Qing dynasty the bureaucracy was chosen via examination on Confucian texts and literature, but were the bureaucrats at all effective at what they do given that they were not trained in disciplines that we associate with civil service today (like economics/government/politics)?
3. How did Western colonialism influence the idea of "(becoming a) modern man" in the area you study? In Indonesia, the "myth of lazy native" was common in 19th century. The myth goes: Non-Western natives are lazy, irrational, and inefficient. Natives are not disciplined and succumb to superstition. To become a "modern man", "primordial" identity has to be worn off. One has to aim to be like the Westerners (in terms of fashion, intellectual pursuit, even imagination of 'development' and 'industrialization').
2. The most obvious is that it became one of the causes that lead to Tokugawa Ieyasu's ascension. During the war, Hideyoshi's old guards divided into two camps, the "war" camp, mostly front line commanders like Katō Kiyomasa and Fukushima Masanori, who advocated for more aggressive posture in carrying out the war, and the "peace" camp, mostly most bureaucratic men who advocated peace, like Ishida Mitsunari and Konishi Yukinaga (who was a frontline commander), going as far as to deceiving Hideyoshi to get the first peace treaty. The war camp came to absolutely despise the peace camp, seemingly for a lack of support in carrying out the war and lack of compensation following. After the death of Hideyoshi and then the death of Maeda Toshiie, the most powerful on the regent council after Ieyasu, their disagreement came to a head that the war camp commanders actually tried to assault Mitsunari. When Mitsunari finally got together an anti-Ieyasu alliance, despite being Hideyoshi's old guards like Mitsunari, the war camp pretty much all declared for Ieyasu. At the very least Mitsunari was counting on Fukushima Masanori to come to his side with most of Owari province, which would allow Mitsunari to have the numbers to overwhelm Ieyasu. But the war camp being on Ieyasu's side instead gave Ieyasu the numbers to overwhelm Mitsunari at Sekigahara.