In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
1. Congress only empowered the FDA to approve drugs that "treat serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients." The plaintiffs argue that pregnancy isn't an illness and the FDA didn't demonstrate that chemical abortion provides a meaningful therapeutic benefit over other options (surgical abortion). As a result, the FDA went beyond their authority.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
>The GAO also supported the FDA’s argument that “the termination of an unwanted pregnancy is a serious condition, and that the drug provided a meaningful therapeutic benefit over existing therapies by allowing patients to avoid the procedure required with surgical termination of pregnancy.”.
What's the point? They've already done plenty of harm to women's reproductive Rights to Garner favor from there base. They could turn a blind eye to this and claim a huge victory still, while letting people live their lives as best as possible. Just gross.
>Since the 2016 Major Changes and the associated elimination of necessary safeguards for women and girls, medical professionals, including Plaintiff doctors and the members of Plaintiff medical associations, have seen and will continue to see an additional increase in the rate of women and girls who have suffered complications from chemical abortion—complications requiring critical treatment from these doctors.
Neither sound valid. Every drug has risk and a small percentage of the population are harmed by it. Are they saying FDA drug trials are insufficient? Good luck with that, there's a reason we take FDA approved drugs over those that aren't.