Darwin's own racial views, it should be noted, were complex. In books like _Descent of Man_ he goes back and forth on how he feels about the relative worth of, say, the Feugian people, versus the English. There are places that are in deliberate opposition to the idea of any kind of privileged status for "race" as a dividing concept for human beings (he essentially argues that racial differences are to be chalked up to more or less random variation reinforced by sexual selection, which means they are mostly aesthetic; he further argues at great lenh that all of the hallmarks of "advanced" civilizations are just cultural evolution), and there are places where he makes it clear that he thinks some groups of people are pretty foul and that there is something less than equality going on (the second to last paragraph in the book is him saying, in essence, that the Feugians are to some degree less evolved than the English, and that the English descended from people like the Feugians, to his horror and dismay — they are not posited as being on equal grounds at all).
9 - Madison Grant. 1916. The Passing of the Great Race. New York: Arno Press. 27.; the same thought can also be found within William Graham Sumner’s Earth Hunger and Other Essays, where he writes: “Before the tribunal of nature a man has no more right to life than a rattlesnake; he has no more right to liberty than any wild beast; his right to pursuit of happiness is nothing but a license to maintain the struggle for existence” (William Graham Sumner. 1913. Earth-Hunger And Other Essays, 1840-1910. New Haven: Yale University Press. 234).
If you've read a lot of Darwin (and I have), you'll recognize this vacillating as Darwin's inimitable style — he circles around interpretations, tries to recognize the value of many of them, rarely settles on one with firmness. So you can read into Darwin quite a lot to support either position by cherry-picking passages. _On the whole_ Darwin's works on race are very "progressive" for a man of his station (wealthy 19th-century white male British naturalist), but many of them would be considered (quite understandably) fairly racist today. (To say nothing of his sexism, which is even more overt.) His opponents were frequently _much more_ racist, for whatever that is worth (the physical anthropology of his day was largely in favor of claiming that different races were different _species_ of man, and using that as a justification for slavery, colonialism, etc.).
If Social Darwinism can be separated into two general strains – the laissez-faire form of Spencer and Sumner and the intentional eugenics of Grant and Stoddard – it becomes necessary to properly and clearly define what is meant by Social Darwinism in the scope of this [answer]. Due to the abundance of research on the subject of Social Darwinism in American political thought, there are a great number of definitions and theories that have been put forth. Unfortunately, as interesting as it may be to trace the development of these definitions, it is outside the scope of this paper to provide such a historiographical progression. As such, this paper will be using the definition as provided by R.J. Halliday in his article “Social Darwinism: A Definition”, found within Victorian Studies journal. Although the article is slightly dated, it provides a firm ground on which to build this paper. Halliday writes:
Haeckel was a bit after Darwin. But Social Darwinism was contemporaneous — usually attributed to Herbert Spencer, a contemporary of Darwin. All Social Darwinism purports to be is an application of Darwinism to the evolution of human societies; it argues that just as an animal struggles for survival in nature, human struggle for survival in society. And just as the "fittest" animals are the ones who triumph, the reason that some humans are wealthy and powerful and others are miserable must have something to do with how "fit" they are. It is an argument from metaphor, and for someone who is sitting in or near the top echelons of a society you can see why it is self-flattering and to some degree convincing. Darwin himself saw the obvious appeal of this argument as well, and there are some passages (again, in _Descent of Man_, the book of his which most concerns these matters) that speak flattering about this application of evolution. Darwin, for his part, tended to be inspired in the opposite direction: he looked at human society and its rituals and was inspired from there to understand the behavior of animals. (This is very explicit in his understanding of sexual selection, for example, which is about how animals within a species compete for the mating rights to other animals — something a British gentleman would be very aware of.) Ultimately in _Descent of Man_ he concludes that he can't accept the Social Darwinists' _laissez faire_ prescriptions for what to do with social misery (the Social Darwinists would say to ignore it, and foreswear charity, because it will work itself out if you do so), because Darwin believed that our sense of charity towards the miserable of our own kind must itself be an evolved instinct and we would be foolish to ignore our evolved instincts.
5 - Halliday, R. J. “Social Darwinism: A Definition.” Victorian Studies, vol. 14, no. 4, 1971, pp. 389–405. JSTOR, JSTOR, www.jstor.org/stable/3825958. 399.
We might also just mention eugenics while we are here, which is a sort of dark inversion of Social Darwinism: instead of the betters percolating to the top, the eugenicists worried that if "fitness" just meant reproduction, then clearly the most miserable (and least competent, etc.) members of society were winning, because they had much higher fertility rates than the higher echelons did. Thus a fear of being "swamped" by masses of inferior people, and a call (unlike Social Darwinists) to intervene in it (to improve the reproduction rates of the "desirable" people and cull the rates of the "undesirable"). This was originated by Darwin's own cousin, Francis Galton, who became very interested in the concepts of heredity that underwrote Darwin's theories. Darwin was himself intrigued by these notions but never went very far along with them; the one area he elicited active curiosity about was cousin marriage (something he himself had participated in, to some regret) and its effects on offspring, but that was about as far as he went.
1 - Ted Bailey. "FROM SOCIAL DARWINISM TO PROGRESSIVISM: EVOLUTIONARY THINKING IN AMERICAN POLITICAL THOUGHT". B.A.S. British and American Studies 17:147-157. 4.
I would note that the above are not by any means the _only_ ways to interpret Darwinism, either; other contexts and other people produced very different interpretations. One of my favorites, to just give it a quick shout out, is how Pyotr Kropotkin interpreted Darwinism in the Russian context. Kropotkin was an anarchist, and where Darwin (and Spencer and etc.) saw "competition" as being the core concept behind evolution, Kropotkin instead saw "cooperation." And so his version of Darwinism was quite a different spin on it, and had clearly quite different political implications.
One might ask — isn't making _any_ political implication out of Darwin's writing a distortion? And the answer is plainly _no_, though there are times in which we might wish it were true. Darwin's work from the beginning was always seen to have implications relevant to the present and future state of humanity. That involves politics, inherently. Darwin himself saw these implications (but did not write about humanity _at all_ in _Origin of Species_, trying in vain to avoid too much controversy right from the beginning), as did everyone else. In the field of Science and Technology Studies we sometimes speak of the "co-production" of these kinds of natural and political claims: it isn't that Darwin's work is a "scientific" claim and then "political" claims got formed out of it, the "scientific" and "political" natures were always tied together, from the beginning, and always will be, because no statement about how the natural world works as broad as Darwin's can possibly exclude human beings, and once you start including human beings you are going to start making some serious political interpretations one way or another.
[I had chosen to employ] Halliday’s definition for a number of reasons. The first is its emphasis on a genetic root cause, not merely a cultural one. [. . . discussion of Roosevelt excerpted. . . ]. Finally, this definition separates Social Darwinism from the idea of laissez-faire policies. While Social Darwinism may have initially emerged as a more laissez-faire mentality, [there was a] general shift in opinion that emerged by the turn of the 20th century. Capturing this distinction is important as the early laissez-faire mentality does not properly capture the focus and motivation of many later Social Darwinists. That is, Social Darwinism not as a form of benign economic neglect but rather a conscious elimination of the unfit.
However, the idea of Social Darwinism as a form of non-interventionist neglect gradually came to be replaced by the idea that it required deliberate choice to ensure the best of society succeed. For example, Madison Grant, the famous eugenicist responsible for influencing the adoption of a number of anti-immigrant and anti-miscegenation laws in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, wrote in his 1916 book The Passing of the Great Race that “the laws of nature require the obliteration of the unfit, and human life is valuable only when it is of use to the community or race” (emphasis mine).^9 Simply leaving the elimination of the unfit to natural societal forces is not sufficient in the view of such theorists. While nature may demand such obliteration, it does not possess the capabilities to ensure that it occurs. Rather, it takes a conscious effort to ensure that the best rise to the top.