This is a pretty sharp question, particularly your distinction between military practice and imaginative military theory. Theoretical writings made a pretty big genre starting from the late 16th century, and continued to proliferate into the 17th century, and many of the oft-repeated axioms of 17th century warfare tend to be cribbed from these theoretical tracts instead of drawn from observed military practice.
Thanks for the answer! Oddly, I just read of an example of troops supposedly doing exactly this - it's in William Dalrymple's history of the rise of the East India Company, _The Anarchy_. In it he cites a case where one extremely well trained army of "sepoys" (Indians trained in European infantry combat) were able to gauge the enemy's firing pattern and lay down under their volleys. I don't have the exact page and which army it is, but I believe it was working for one of the Maratha warlords. I can dig up the details later if anyone wants them.
Next, accuracy: muskets aren't inaccurate. Not nearly to the extent people who've never fired one think. By the 18th century, with standardized (but not necessarily precisely made) muskets, the expectation was that a practiced musketeer could strike a man-sized target somewhere on the body most of the time at 80 yards. This range can be stretched quite a bit if the target you're aiming at is, say, a horse, or a body of men. This is inaccurate in comparison to modern rifles, even muzzle loading rifles of the mid 19th century, sure (but even in that case, many European and American armies didn't engage at ranges the rifles were capable of, and instead waited until more certain of the effectiveness of the fire), but not in comparison to a crossbow or a longbow at the same time.
This is interesting to me! Most visual depictions of Napoleonic or 18th century warfare show rows of men standing up in a field, not bothering to take cover. Is this artistic license? Did soldiers in that time period crouch behind walls, in ditches, etc.?
Secondly, you mention the earliest examples of musketfire proving militarily decisive. What was it that made volleys from muskets of whatever sort more devastating than an equivalent volley of arrows or crossbow bolts? Was it the increased capacity to pierce armour, or just the fire and fury of it? Were they actually more effective, or just easier to use en masse?