If you're a single middle aged white dude going back and forth to Southeast Asia, they may be asking to look through your devices for evidence of kiddie porn.
General remarks including Other Service Indicated (OSI), Special Service Indicated (SSI) and Supplemental Service Request (SSR) information.
I am more of the former. I am the last person one suspects of wrong doing, racially/gender/professional-wise... but every time i get secondary screening. One time recently, my return plane was full of africans. I was one of the few americans. And the border cops were waiting inside the walkway, like the walkway between the gate and the plane door. And they were checking everyone's passports, and everyone was getting waived in, and the police took one look at my passport, and told i am getting singled out. So i was escorted by 4 big bodied police to an elevator, walked to a different section, like a totally different floor of the checkpoint, and questioned extensively.. I was like, wtf.
CBP has a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) website, you can make a request for "all records of my entries into the USA including all secondary inspections" and in 6-12 months they'll probably send you a file containing narrative reports (officer's notes) of each inspection, which may shed light on what they are hassling you about.
I am none of the above... I am an asian female who's an equal opportunist in terms of where I travel... In the last year since we can work from "home", I've traveled to central europe, balkans, Middle east, north africa, Mexico, etc... I don't have a concentration of places..
As for your devices: The border search authority is extremely powerful, and generally limited searches of personal electronics which do not involve a forensic backup of the device or extended delay have been upheld, even after the Carpenter case clarified police generally need a warrant to go into an electronic device. Their right to search is not unlimited in the absence of reasonable suspicion, but even without RS they can ask you to unlock your device and do a limited inspection. If you refuse, yes, they can seize it and prevent the introduction to the country. For more, see on what you can do and who you should contact if you think a violation has occurred.