I'm always amazed and touched at the assistance being offered to Ukraine by countries that I would have assumed did not give a flying fuck about what is happening there.
Excellent article. Probably the best I've read on this war. I particularly liked the insight it gives into the Ukrainian air force and how it survived the early phase of the war.
- Important! All those who voluntarily surrender will be issued as ‘captured in battle.’ This is to protect military personnel from possible criminal prosecution upon return to their country.
No. Russian opposition is more sophisticated. If Pootin was winning they would have boasted about helping poor Ukrainian people that are struggling “in this difficult situation”. We are lucky they are not in power. They are the same, but more subtle.
>We are grateful to the people of the Republic of Korea for the dispatch of much-needed assistance: twenty super-powerful 500kWt generators, medical equipment, and medicines, including vaccines for children and anti-cancer drugs, from Incheon Airport to Ukraine.
Actually, I saw the milbloggers say it over a week ago. That all that was left there were some artillery operators to shell Nikopol, Berislav, but since the left bank was within range, there’s no commanders, fsb, etc within like 40 miles. Just basically a skeletal crew.
>The stations have seriously and repeatedly violated Moldova’s Audiovisual Services Code in broadcasting information related to the war in Ukraine, Prime Minister Natalia Gavrilița said on Facebook.
There’s other info on the page, you can see if you follow link. It mentions other POWs, that they’ve been fed, taken care of in a humanitarian manner. And there’s repeated info about Geneva. The Russians know that “Geneva conventions” means basically that are fed, get medical treatment, not tortured—they know because they’re told that Russia abides and Ukraine does not. The biggest hurdle is to get them to trust the unknown (Ukraine) when only have been presented picture that it’s evil. But when they’re pushed far enough (mistreated by commanders, freezing, etc), many are willing to take the gamble that maybe what they heard was untrue and surrender is a better option.