A scenario might be that a group of raiders has landed at a village, dragging their ships onto the strand, and that a counter-force manages to trap them with beached ships and burn their means of escape; the raiding force could then be hunted down on land. Many of the battles that we know about during this time period seem to take that form (the details of naval battle are very incomplete). Alternatively, there are some accounts of battles on the water between two fleets, where it seems likely that individual ships grappled with one another, with boarding being the decisive factor in their success. We do know that defense against ships in this era required a combination of fixed defenses (bridges, forts) and squadrons stationed at spots where they could quickly be called to respond. The accounts of battles that we do have tend to list a prince and his achievements (Alfred of Wessex went to sea with a "fleet" (sciphere) in 875, fought seven enemy ships and captured one ... etc.).
The battle itself was a draw, almost bloodless and no ships lost, but a great tactical and strategic win for the Danes who could bottle up the Swedish navy in the bay of Kiel and thus neutralise it for awhile and stop a combined invasion of the main central Danish islands and allowing the Danish to push back in the Scanian side of the war. Unfortunately for the Danish the Swedish fleet eventually managed to slip out after a month. The Danish king also led other naval battles like Lister Dyb that he won against the Dutch who had arrived to assist the Swedish.
As a direct consequence the battle of Femern took place in October 1644 with combined Swedish-Dutch and the Danish fleet again with the king in significant command. This ended up as one of the greatest triumphs of the Swedish navy ever and effectively eradicated the Danish navy. With a loss of naval control of the waters around Denmark, hostile armies inside his territory and more available the Danish king had no choice but to negotiate a hard peace of Brömsebro in 1645 losing Jämtland, Härjedalen, Gotland, the island of Ösel and finally Halland for 30years. More woes would come for Denmark in the following years and that 30 years would turn to forever and all of their remaining holdings in what today is Sweden would be lost in the years to come. The Danish were on the decline and Sweden was on the up.