Most of western Europe operated within a cultural framework that granted the right to bear arms to its citizens, but even the idea of "citizenship" can't be projected backward from our understanding. It wasn't a universal privilege granted to everyone, it was a specific legal privilege bestowed on a specific class of men. The legal privileges granted to men were widespread but included the right to carry arms in public, which came with the reciprocal understanding that they would use those arms for the public good by serving as a member of the local militia. The militia's function included daily watch duties, fire response, general public safety - stopping or apprehending criminals, stopping duels and brawls, et al - but even operating the city's cannons, and participating in city parades and training days. Most of the places that had an active interest in their militias had parallel cultural institutions that rewarded men's active participation in martial games, such as German-speaking Free Cities' Fechtschulen (fencing competitions) and Shützenfeste (shooting competitions). Men would publicly compete for cash prizes and to show off their skills to the rest of the city as a means of social promotion and simple martial practice. Shützenfeste, especially, were also often included in inter-city competitions, where, say, Augsburg might drag their cannons over to Nuremburg, and their citizen militias would compete by shooting them at targets against one another.
It felt a bit weird reading this. I grew up with classic Warhammer, particularly the empire, which is modeled after 1600s germanic culture. I knew there would inevitably be some historical accuracy (some of the early GW staff were known for their historical reenactments) but I didn't realise how accurate so much of the lore was, disregarding the magic bits.
Great question. First we need to further refine what we mean by "soldiering" because it was a more complicated notion in the 16th century frame. While hiring yourself out to serve on a campaign with a mercenary company was socially censured, serving a short campaign as a mustered member of your town militia was not, in fact the latter was lauded. Both of these are "soldiering" in our modern definition, but there was at least a difference of perception in the 16th century.
It's a historical fallacy that many people approach studying 16th century warfare as an extension of, say, 18th century warfare. That is, the assumption that "the army" was some cohesive, collective whole, formed on national lines, and serving under specific legal standards. But that wasn't how armies in Eurpoe worked in the 16th century; there was no draft, there was no overarching national legal framework, just about every army that took to the field was privately raised and served under wealthy aristocrats pursuing wealthy aristocrat's goals. Others were rebel armies, such as the German Bundschuh rebels, the Dutch rebels, religious dissidents, etc. But the answer to your question of "what weapons would they use" remains the same: the ones they were most familiar with.