Well, the answer is surprisingly personal, as in, in large part because Klemens von Metternich personally wanted it that way as part of maintaining the pre-Revolutionary balance of power because it was valuable if not essential to absolutist rule, and the European powers who had led the Sixth Coalition were more happy than not with his vision of European peace because the conservative victors of Waterloo who weren’t Austrian were 1. at their most liberal still only British constitutional monarchists who A. were still themselves aristocratic landed gentry and didn’t care for _too_ much democracy or bourgeois reform at home B. primarily cared about isolationism and wanted stalemate through balancef power on the continent because a balanced Europe prevented Britain from being dragged into wars or 2. just honest-to-god absolutists like Prussia and Russia worried about French-inspired populist revolution at home, given the events of the last 20 years. Metternich chaired the Congress of Vienna on behalf of Austria and was an aggressively, repressively anti-liberal who saw the necessity of cooperation among Europe’s monarchies to each maintain their individual dynasties in the face of bourgeois liberal revolution, or even liberal reform that would chip away at ancient (and proper) absolutist/monarchical rights to govern. (There are some who blame the First World War on Metternich because his maneuvering at the Vienna Congress and afterward to maintain Austrian absolutism and generally hold back the tide of liberal reform allowed or at least helped Austria to continue as a cultural patchwork rather than reforming along cultural, nationalist lines, nationalism being a co-product of bourgeois ideas of self-determination, self-governance, and ‘the state’, and it was the desire for Bosnian independence that led to Archduke Ferdinand’s assassination, which we all remember launched Europe’s web of defensive pacts).
Hey Khengis_Ghan, thanks for explaining this to me. I must say I'm intrigued by what you write about Metternich and the other major players at the Congress of Vienna. Are there any good books on the Congress of Vienna that you can recommend that focus on the Austrian side?
Obviously some parties wanted partition. Savoy. Netherlands. The German kingdoms and duchies. They weren't running the show. Partitions are a funny thing. On the one hand, it is tempting for a stronger Great Power to take what it can. On the other hand, it is difficult for several Great Powers to compromise on how much each power gets. The Partition of Poland was very much a fairly rare anomaly. Opportunity is key, and 1812/1815 saw the absence of one strong Great Power with a desire and ability to partition France. Prussia and Austria alike were prepared to partition parts of France, but their own rivalry with one another hobbled a united front. Neither Tsar Alexander nor the British Ministry wanted to see France crushed geographically. They did not stand to benefit, so they consistently stood in the way of any partition that would strenhen a united Imperial Germany at the expense of France.