Ignoring the Archaic office of the polemarch ("war-leader"), which became ceremonial in the Classical period, the Athenian hoplite militia had the following rank structure (with equivalent ranks existing for the archers and cavalry):
Do we know if these two are related? That is, can we trace the institution of the ouragos from the Ten Thousand to the Hellenistic armies, or were they invented independently of each other? (I'm guessing the answer leans to the latter, on grounds of the difficulty in transmitting institutional knowledge without, well, an institution.).
Several of these ranks were clearly created only in the course of the march: the enomotarchoi to command the enomotiai that represented a further tactical breakdown of the lochos, and the ouragoi as supernumeraries to keep the phalanx together from the rear. The first of these is based on Spartan practice, but the second is unique to the Ten Thousand (though later Hellenistic armies would feature ouragoi as a matter of course). In both cases, these officers would have to have been promoted on the spot. Either they were appointed by higher officers or elected by the troops. Either way, merit would have been the likely grounds for selection.
This is relevant for two reasons. First, it means there was rarely much opportunity to "rise through the ranks." Armies usually weren't on campaign long enough to allow time for such a process. Second, commanders couldn't afford to wait until talented candidates for higher ranks presented themselves. They needed the basic cadre of subordinates ahead of time, because it was the officers that would muster the required number of men from the various districts of their community. The result is a system that looks like the inverse of that used in modern armies: the officers were picked before the troops were enlisted. Armies tended to be mustered by their officers, filling the ranks of their units as they saw fit. After that, any rearrangement of the chain of command was more or less unthinkable; no officer would opt to replace himself.