Volume VIII brings us to a time of , and of , and we welcome everyone to share history that related to that period, whatever else it might be about. Share stories, whether happy, sad, funny, moving; Share something interesting or profound that you just read; Share what you are currently working on in your research. It is all welcome!
Thomas wasn’t involved in the exposure of those plots; rather they came about via a mixture of well placed pre-existing spies working for Cecil (Anthony Copley, who was convicted as being part of the plot to place Arabella Stuart on the throne but pardoned in 1604 most likely for informing Cecil of it long before) and internal division within catholic ranks (when the Jesuit John Gerard probably informed on the plot via a Scottish courtier).
This section is NSFW and NSFL. Content warning: torture, graphic violence. Proceed at your own risk. If you have a weak stomach, feel free to skip to the next section.
Thus throughout the era we see a bewildering cast of most prestigious size; from practitioners of the Catholic faith who found themselves not only on recusants lists but also now considered possible enemies, to low level criminals seeking patronage of nobles, to academics identified as students (why is it hard to believe Marlowe was recruited from Cambridge when that is precisely how Phillipes was recruited).
. As you can see, roughly 12 million (Dutch) pounds of copper (which are roughly equivalent to half a kilogram each) were sent between 1700-1710 to India from Japanese origins, which by my shitty calculations roughly equals about 6,000 tons over the decade.
The other? The Earl of Essex. Essex was looking to improve his standing at court. For him, if he couldn’t earn glory with his sword he would earn glory with his intelligence gathering. The man had no idea how to run a secret service. He just wanted one to make him look good.
Some scholars have suggested non-sexual sadistic psychopathy. I'd give that argument an "A-" simply because 300-ish bodies don't lie.
There is a lovely letter written in January 1592 to Phillipes (or Phelippes as it was addressed) from Sterrel (an agent provocateur employer by Thomas) about a former servant of Hugh Owen called Cloudesley, who worked for the English intelligence services now by delivering letters to known Catholic suspects from their supporters in Europe (allowing them be intercepted and deciphered) and who had managed to deliver the wrong letters to the wrong people; who this little servant was, his life, the reasons for his involvement are lost to us, as are the contents of the letters as is any damage he may have caused- although Sterrel does suggest Cloudesley is taken off such duties and should be employed ‘about the prisons’ to gain information there in future. But here we see how the net cast caught a huge number of souls with no set criteria for recruitment (Hogge, ‘Gods Secret Agents’, p240).