The cliche of Southern gentleman all being called 'Colonel' is one fairly grounded in truth. Not to say they were all Colonels, as many also would go by Major, or Captain, but military rank was an honor borne by many men of the Antebellum South... yet, of course, this during a time when the US maintained a tiny standing army, and one hallmarked by stagnation of rank to boot. John Hope Franklin related a humorous observation that captures this absurdity:
Interesting. Thank you for the link. My high school history teacher claimed Texas held a special secession convention with delegates sent expressly because they would vote for it because Governor Sam Houston was against it and had been persuading the regular members of the state congress against it. It doesn't entirely jive with accounts I have read of how it all went down, but doesn't fully say that isn't how it was. There really was a special convention with specific delegates sent to make the vote on secession. Can you comment on this?
Fascinating. So white southern men, possessed equally by racism and delusions of military grandeur, played dress up and gave themselves threatening titles and created a power structure based on privilege, not merit? Sounds familiar.
It also can be noted that patroller activities increased both during 'Bleeding Kansas', and then again during the Civil War, and in the latter case especially their full wrath was unleashed, but it is perhaps interesting - and speaks to their separateness from the militia - that they had close association and co-mingling with the bushwhackers who characterized the war in Missouri, guerrilla fighters not particularly interested in the military life, but still fighting against northern forces, Burke writing:
Great answer! Does the source above deal with militias up to present date? Or do you know of any such source? As a swede who recently discovered "guntube" (gun-related youtube-channels) and finds it very exotic/entertaining/baffling/disconcerting, much of what you wrote concerning militias and the connection of martial matters to identity and manhood and status, as well as to the definition och "freedom and liberty" feels like it could have been written about today.
Yes and no. It was hardly a new thing, elections throughout the US were conducted the same way, and the Australian (secret) ballot only started to become a thing in the late 19th century. Everywhere voting was done publicly, as a social activity, so we can't say that was unique to the south, but it took a specific feel when combined with the cultural norms. This gets to the Wyatt-Brown quote about Southern ideas of liberty and how it was defined to fit their specific cultural norms. So certainly they conducted their elections that way, but for them it was an expression of liberty as defined by them.