This is a sophistication of terms. One could argue that "democratically" is relative given that Hitler's overall electorate support was not a majority, insofar as the forming of a coalition government was required (and in Hitler's case the appointment by the President, which however was constitutional, and so, alas, was the passing of the martial law decrees of March '33).
Correct. It should be noted that even at their height the nazis were voted as a protest vote against the Social Democrats. Kind of like how Brexit passed.
The German post war constitution authors (the "founding fathers of the Basic Law", Gründungsväter des Grundgesetzes, some of which who had actually voted for Hitler's enabling laws at the time), took the opposite lesson of what is now often used as "the lesson" argued by American libertarians: Their conclusion was that a democracy needs to defend itself even against those among its own people who wish to abolish it, and has the right to do so; with that in mind, various new constitutional articles (the equivalent to US amendments) were written that prevent anti-democratic populist forces from gaining traction and power (while they still can, it requires a lot more work of them to do so, unlike in the current iteration of the US constitution). Political parties can be banned if they wish to abolish basic human rights and elections or intend to incite "racial hatred", if the German equivalent of the FBI, the German federal parliament and Germany's supreme court agree that a political party meets those "dis-qualification" standards. Such bans have taken place occasionally in post war German history (it happened for instance to one iteration of the Communist party in West Germany which was accused of wishing to abolish free and fair elections); German Neo-Nazi organisations can only run in elections if they clearly profess support for keeping elections and human rights (even if that's only lip service). It remains a political argument whether this form of fighting extremism of any shade is effective, but so far the German post war societal system has performed remarkably well in fighting off such threats due to these measures.
Yes and no. The president choose a Chancellor based on the makeup of the Reichtag. The party with the most seats became chancellor. The right wing parties in Germany allied themselves with the Nazis to form a government, and Hitler was chosen as Chancellor (despite not being the largest party). Then the Reichstag fire happened and Hitler used that as an excuse to purge the left wing parties from the Reichstag and replaced them with Nazis. Then the president died and Hitler combined the offices of President and Chancellor. Making him the Furher. Then he passed things like the enabling act that gave him dictatorial powers.