Looking more broadly, while it is an exaggeration to say SPAM won the war, one can at least jokingly make the argument. When Khruschev wrote in his memoirs that ”Despite the many humorous comments about Spam, we still ate it. It would have been very hard to feed our army without it” singling out SPAM specifically might be a bit much, but it is quite true that the Soviets would have been simply unable to feed their military and their people without the massive amounts of food aid from the US, and to a lesser extent the United Kingdom. Nearly on the brink of starvation, the foreign aid roughly equaled the entire food needs of the Red Army through the war, not only allowing most civilians to at least receive the necessary minimums by 1943, but additionally freeing up potentially hundreds of thousands of unavailable hands from the necessity of farming and provisioning.
Now, back to description. Tushonka in a standard is basically a ladleful of braised meat that was cooked until tender; it is what Americans call "pulled meat" in that you can easily pull the fibers apart when heating it up. Again, it is recognizable as a real cut of meat (or small pieces of it, for cheaper stuff), not ground mass like ham. To this, a lump of fat is added (it's either on top, below or to the side of the meat). A can always has an intact bay leaf in it, and the meat is braised with chopped white onions. The dish is otherwise garnished simply, with black pepper and salt.
I'm not a Lend-Lease expert, but my understanding is that the US-based manufacturers were paid by the US government, and that - theoretically, at least - the Soviet government was supposed to reimburse the US government. The USSR did ship gold and some other rare minerals like platinum, chrome and manganese. The US government never really expected to collect the full value of Lend-Lease from the Soviet government, but the exact amount to settle the debt was disputed for years before being settled in 1972 at $722 million, as part of the first annual(ish) US shipment of grain to the USSR.
Schechter, Brandon. “The State’s Pot and the Soldier’s Spoon: Rations (Paëk) in the Red Army” in Hunger and War: Food Provisioning in the Soviet Union during World War II, ed. Wendy Z. Goldman & Donald Filtzer. Indiana University Press, 2015. 98-157.
Now, a major issue was in providing citizens with meat - livestock had been devastated during the collectivization campaign, and the average urban worker actually ate less meat in the 1930s than in 1913. So processed meat was, obviously, a quick and cheap solution (sidenote: finding new sources of meat was pretty much an ongoing issue for Soviet authorities throughout the Soviet era, and led to some creative and frankly weird solutions, such as mass shooting of migrating wild Eurasian waterfowl, and illegal whaling).
Yes. Apologies if that wasn't clear. I wasn't meaning to imply that tushonka was entirely new invention (although the WWII style was new, far as I can tell, thanks to American pork), only that the extent to which it was produced was a result of war time interactions with American suppliers, and its post-war ubiquity was in turn brought about by that volume.