McPherson is a great source, however, which makes it all the more curious as an addition to the comment by u/slcrook. McPherson makes no mention of Lee's desire to win a victory to force the north to sue for peace (even though the 1993 film Gettysburg weirdly makes this claim as an absolute, which is perhaps why it has bled into the popular consciousness). McPherson DOES spend quite a bit of time talking about how Lee's invasion of Pennsylvania was mostly a knee-jerk reaction to Jefferson Davis' suggestion that he head west to help out with Vicksburg (pg. 646). Long story short, Lee had to do something if he was going to stay out of Mississippi, so he went north to Pennsylvania looking for supplies, fresh recruits, and a piecemeal victory over what he knew to be a larger foe (the Army of the Potomac).
TD;LR - Lee attacked on the 2nd day at Gettysburg not out of desperation, or because his ultimate objective was to win a grand battle to end the war, but because he genuinely thought it was the best course of action in the moment.
So to the broader OP question of why Lee persisted on the 2nd day at Gettysburg, we should dismiss this notion that he HAD to in order to secure his ultimate campaign objective. Lee didn't go to Pennsylvania looking to score a set-piece victory between fully engaged armies: he wanted to feed off the largely untouched Pennsylvania countryside for supplies and new recruits (both in short supply in Virginia) and to catch the Army of the Potomac in fragments.
Thanks for the response. I got the sense that you have even broader knowledge so that’s why I asked. I wasn’t implying that your post was lacking. I can also refer to the FAQ. Also, the post you refer to has been deleted which you mentioned, which had additional sources although ones you don’t seem to recommend, except for McPherson, which I can only assume is the work you cite. So to pull out from your comment:
This is a fascinating question not only for the big picture "answer" but also as a way to examine the evolution of the historiography of the question itself as it relates to Gettysburg, Lee's objectives, and the broader question of where the conflict stood in June/July 1863. While some elements of what u/slcook said are correct, much of it is based on a now-outdated understanding of not just Gettysburg as a battle, but the conflict as a whole. This includes a re-examination of Lee's Pennsylvania objectives, Stuart's role in the battle, and the thinking about Vicksburg in June 1863.