Norse mythology is something that many of us in the western world are broadly familiar with, but only on the surface level. Odin is the All-father, Thor has a hammer, he fights giants, Loki is in there, and so on. However what we "know" about Norse mythology is mostly derived from a series of saga stories that were written down by Christians, and mostly one particular Christian (Snorri Sturluson) in Iceland centuries after conversion. The deities that we know and love, Heimdall, Tyr, Loki, all of whom are actually relatively unattested in archaeological evidence are common in the sagas, and vice versa, deities such as Ullr rarely appear in the saga literature despite far more evidence of a widespread cult based on place names. How are we to reconcile this difference between the literary evidence and the archaeological, especially in light of the reliability of the literary evidence compared to the archeological?
We are largely left with archaeological evidence (physical objects such as rune stones, artifacts, place name evidence, and so on), contemporary accounts from outside the Norse world, and extremely curated selections from the surviving corpus of Old Norse literature. So what do these sources tell us? What secrets can they reveal to the intrepid researchers of today?
Incredible response mate, I certainly wasn't thinking someone would go this much effort, It certainly does make sense to me now how it died out so quickly when based off what you've said Christianity was superior in pretty much every way I do find it surprising how there religion wasn't actually that important to them as i had always assumed it was something they held very dearly that could just be Hollywood getting to my head though haha. Thank you very much for this detailed of a response!
In short, that the old Norse pagan religious tradition was elitist and extremely insular (not to mention barbaric, including human sacrifices and, if Ibn Fadlan is to be believed, the ritualized gang rape of slaves) with little popular participation and little buy in beyond the nobility. Norse paganism was hardly a core aspect of Norse "heritage" if the rapid and successful conversion to Christianity is a useful metric to go by. Indeed the religion likely varied extremely among the vast majority of the population and the paganism practiced in one part of Scandinavia likely bore little relation to that practiced in another. Evidence from across the Norse world shows that there was a great deal of variation in practices such as burial (cremation vs inhumation) and local cult popularity (as evidenced by the wide variety in theophoric place names).
Before Christians started gaining a lot of traction in Scandinavia (though with a good deal of Missionary activity), one Norse ruler does seem to have tried to develop a conspicuous and antique form of paganism to contrast with the encroaching Christian realms.
Anders Winroth argues in The Conversion of Scandinavia that Christianity won out in Scandinavia because the native lords, chiefs, and kings, had concrete motivations to convert and little reason to stay pagan.
Anders Winroth argues in The Conversion of Scandinavia that Christianity won out in Scandinavia because the native lords, chiefs, and kings, had concrete motivations to convert and little reason to stay pagan, and a very similar dynamic was likely at play in England during its conversion to Christianity, though not because of their shared "Germanic" heritage. Instead it was a similar socio-economic and political situation and cultural influence coming from the former Roman heartlands. There are many broad similarities between the two. Extremely weak central rulers, a militarized and extremely influential warrior class, outside trade pressures coming from Christian territories (Francia and Ireland in the case of England, England the Roman Empire in the case of Scandinavia).