Today’s theme is Gender Histories, and we welcome anyone and everyone to share histories that fit the theme. Stories of triumph or tragedy, or cheerful or sad, all are welcome.
The results of this analysis reveal that words like "pride", "vanity", "avarice", "envy", "covetousness", and "vainglory" share the closest semantic relationships with the word "ambition" and this is backed up by close readings of these discursive and rhetorical texts so that I can argue that when a woman is described as "covetous" or a man is called "proud", the author of these descriptions is also implicitly describing these individuals as "ambitious" as well.
- . Rivera is credited by some as starting the 1969 Stonewall Riots and though she does not endorse this although she was certainly present and active at the beginning (source: by Martin Duberman). In this video she addresses the crowd at Christopher Street Liberation Day (held to commemorate the Stonewall Riots; what later became known as "gay pride"). She gives them shit for insufficient solidarity. More context and transcript .
The sixteenth century witnessed a massive amount of centralization of power to the crown in Scotland, so I argue that this rhetoric, while not necessarily always originating with the Scottish crown, certainly supported the aims of said crown, and we see James VI/I beginning to engage with this discourse in publications like Basilikon Doron and Daemonologie. Finally, the rhetoric surrounding ambition was used not only to attack women to exert control over women as a group, but also to attack men through attacks upon their wives, and to attack non-white and non-Christian individuals of both sexes. Thus, a person could say that a woman was behaving ambitiously and might accuse her of consorting with witches, or being a witch herself to achieve influence over her politically prominent husband, but in leveling this accusation, the attacker also levels an attack at the husband by suggesting he is failing in his role as a Christian head of his household in being unable to control his wife and therefore, he should not be trusted to govern the kingdom's political affairs. Likewise, men themselves might be called "ambitious" if they were seen to be desiring "illegitimate" power or wealth (i.e., men who were not of the noble classes seeking political office) as a means of keeping them in their place. Non-white and non-Christian individuals were characterized as ambitious by nature to justify suspicion and strict rules of conduct imposed upon them. In this way, the dialog surrounding ambition in this period both perpetuated outright misogyny and upheld patriarchal structures within Scottish and English society. The idea that men were failing as men if they couldn't control their wives illustrates how men impose expectations on other men, and the fact that men who were non-white and non-Christian were also oppressed by this rhetoric demonstrates the complex relationships between the language of ambition and gender, class, and race in this period.
This is amazing to know! Firstly because we were both born in Indianapolis and now I live in Hollywood. Secondly I frickin love learning about Indianapolis‘s history and historic residents.