As with the explanations for "Ring around the Rosie", there are many "theories on its subject matter." Sadly, these theories stand on quicksand. Happily, these explanations are, in themselves, of interest to folklorists.
Sometimes people - the "folk" - can be amazingly aware of their own folklore. Jokes often take this form, with a well known joke cycle turning on its head - and that becomes the point of the joke. "I have a knock-knock joke"; second person, "Let's hear it."' "OK, you go first"; second person says, "Knock Knock"; "Who's there?" the first person answers; The second person is consequently left "holding the bag" because they don't have the typical response to proceed (not very funny and rather childish, but this is metafolklore).
Yes! I still have nightmares about a post there claiming humans evolved to be stronger in Europe during the "Middle Ages" because they needed to use heavy tools.
Absolutely! That's my point here. They are classified as folk etymologies or metafolklore - folklore about folklore.
The field of folklore is diverse and international. I'm never sure where to tell people to start. The many folklorists who are writing on the topic take a range of approaches, and mine represents only one of the many possibilities. With that in mind, I always find the Dundes volume as a good place to start.
I've edited in a correction that Marie Hassenpflug was from Hesse, not Alsace as I had mistakenly written, but her family were Huguenots and she is the Grimms' source for a number of tales, including "Sleeping Beauty" and "Little Red Riding Hood," both of which are attested in French versions significantly prior to German.
Wait a minute.. I was convinced for a long time that ring around the Rosie was reference to the symptoms of botchulism (sp?) or some kind of disease… it was a kids way of coping with people dying from some crazy disease? Ashes ashes we all fall down?
In interesting observation. If you offer an explanation for this - it will probably become folklore.
Folklorists are also interested in why this explanation is so popular and persistent. Morbid curiosity is clearly part of the cause: when giving presentations to 7th graders about the history of the mining West, I always made certain I ended by handing out nineteenth-century death recorders. The morbid little bastards always perked up when they could see how/why people died, particularly when it came to the deaths of children. Explaining "Ring around the Rosie" by linking it to the black death is, simply, popular because it is so enticing: children singing about a plague is too good to resist.