Yeah, but trust me, you can only hide behind the llc if you have connections, etc. Most District Attorneys don’t give a rat’s ass,as long as you are in their jurisdiction, and you don’t have a lot of pull or money. I use to do sales for a contractor that did typical home improvement work. We did mostly vinyl fencing, siding etc. The distributor/fabricator we bought the material from suddenly decided to close shop overnight, and take the deposits(around $100,000) for the customers that we left with them. It was a small company and we not only had to find a new distributor for material, we had to find money to pay them. The customers would give us 20% upfront. We gave the manufacturer around 50% upfront when the jobs were ordered. There was only 1 distributor in a 100 mile radius, at the time. So, we have all these pissed off customers who want their work done or their money back, while we are trying to figure out how to stay afloat. We were an LLC. The manufacturer was an LLC. A few of the customers called the local DA. The DA started threatening us with arrest warrants if we didn’t have the job done, or the money returned in full, by a certain date. We explained the situation to the DA, and they did not give a rat’s ass. I was just the salesman and I got a call from the DA’s office.The DA rode our ass, and ignored questions we had about the manufacturer, that was also in their jurisdiction. It ended up resolving itself, but we also has to involve an attorney. Plus, the whole situation caused the owner of the company to have a nervous breakdown. That dude probably lost a decade of his life over that situation. It’s sad, because he was a straightforward, no BS kind of person.
Seriously. It's as though they think Nazis only became Nazis after they seized power, or that the Holocaust was exactly the moment they crossed the line, and everything before that was totally cool. It frames it as wrong to call out, much less work against, fascism unless it's already too late.
Seriously. I mean right now the whole republican battle with Disney over viewpoints the company has. I don’t see the republicans having issues with hobby lobby’s owners stand points. Nor do I see most democrats throwing their arms up in the air over and over, or throwing tantrums, about.