He forgot to mention option number 4, which is "Buy what appears to be a one-way plane ticket to Orlando, while continuing to ask that his supporters pressure the armed forces to strike down the new government through a coup.".
As someone that has to live in this country absolutely plagued by corruption that happens to be the main driver of continued poverty, poor health and education, serious lack of public safety, stagflation, poor productivity, reliance on commodities and a consistently devaluing currency, I'd prefer the hamfisted guy with the big mouth to the living symbol that crime pays in Brazil.
1. Don’t exists 3 instances, the Superior instance can only work from what was gathered from the 1st instance, that was proven corrupt and worked with the prosecution to jail him. Since the 1st instance destroyed the due process, everything was nullified. He is innocent because corrupt people tried to frame him, if they followed the due process maybe it would’ve being different.
Absolutely not. You would have such a difficult time buying property and keeping your wealth/history hidden for long. there's TOO many systems in place to make it impossible to hide forever in any sort of comfort a millionaire might be after. Maybe some shit like Walter at the end of Breaking Bad hiding in that cabin with his drums full of unspendable cash, but even with a lot of help eventually you'll be spotted or something you're doing will bring attention.
3. Lula was the president that created most transparency and accountability in the federal government. After Dilma’s impeachment all of that was immediately dismantled, like the independence of federal police, for example.
Brazil is not the US. It has different problems, a different economy, different culture, and Bolsonaro supporters are not MAGA supporters. Lula is not the lesser evil, his leadership is just -once again- a show how perverted the justice system is here, and how crime pays.
However, putting Lula -a convicted criminal- into power is a tragedy, symbolically. The fact he could run for president was a tragedy. It sends a very strong message that corruption is King in Brazil, that it still prevails, and that whatever Brazil does to try and get out of that hole, they just can't seem to.