The longer answer: Historically, the two periods prior to unification under the first Emperor of the Qin 秦始皇 (259 – 210 BC) are referred to as the Spring and Autumn 春秋 period, and the Warring States 戰國 period, both taking place under the nominal reign of the Eastern Zhou 東周 (770–256 BC). The Eastern Zhou was preceded by a smaller kingdom, the Western Zhou 西周 (1045–771 BC) which had in turn overthrown the Shang 商 (who claimed to have in turn overthrown the Xia 夏, inventors of the Chinese script), setting up a feudal vassal system 封建 which, over the course of several centuries became increasingly unwieldy, while at the same allowing the (written) language and culture of the central state to spread across a larger and larger geographic area. Here's a map of the various kingdoms that existed during the SA&WS periods, with Zhou the middle:
The historian Sima Qian 司馬遷 (145–86 BC) touches on this when discussing the surprising success of Qin in conquering the other kingdoms of the Eastern Zhou:
This novel, attributed to the late-Yuan, early-Ming playwright Luo Guanzhong 羅貫中 (\1315 - \1400 AD), is a 120-chapter dramatic retelling of The Record of the Three Kingdoms 三國志, compiled by Chen Shou 陳壽 (233–297 AD). (In fact, it was almost certainly compiled from earlier oral retellings 平話 of the same history. See Andrew Plaks, The Four Masterworks, pp368–9).
One commander Lu Su was once honored by Sun Quan dismounting to greet him and shocked everyone by proclaiming that wasn't an honour that satisfied him, the only thing that would do so " I hope when your honored virtuous authority gains the Four Seas, envelops the Nine Provinces, achieving the Emperor’s enterprise, you then use a light wheel carriage to summon me; only then will it be enough to honor me ".
4. The claim to 'centrality' was a common trope for states based out of Manchuria, and the Qing's use of ᡩᡠᠯᡳᠮᠪᠠᡳ dulimbai was probably rooted in Manchurian rather than Chinese political customs. Notably, the Khitan Liao Dynasty claimed to be a 'central' (t.iau.dû) state despite controlling extremely little 'Chinese' territory, and the claim to centrality was repeated by the Jurchen Jin (ancestors to the Manchus) who supplanted them – the Jurchens sometimes employed the term amban dulingi alčun gurun, which translates to 'Great Central Gold State'.
1. Guang Sima and Rafe De Crespigny, Emperor Huan and Emperor Ling: Being the Chronicle of Later Han for the Years 157 to 189 AD as Recorded in Chapters 54 to 59 of the Zizhi Tongjian of Sima Guang. 2, 2, (Canberra, 1989). Available online here:
Now we have some examples of how the 3kingdoms period (unofficially 190-280AD) was viewed as a civil war though,in all honesty,it's a matter of some academic debate,specifically on the nature of Wu's subservience as a tributary rather than as a direct vassal (even if that,by itself, deserves a separate question).
6. The Qing distinguished between ᡩᠣᡵᡤᡳ dorgi (China and Manchuria, which were managed through a direct, regularised civilian administration), and ᡨᡠᠯᡝᡵᡤᡳ tulergi (Mongolia, Xinjiang and Tibet, which were not), and ᡩᡠᠯᡳᠮᠪᠠᡳ ᡤᡠᡵᡠᠨ dulimbai gurun would seem to map onto ᡩᠣᡵᡤᡳ dorgi specifically, rather than both. [Personal note: at the time of the Treaty of Nerchinsk, the Qing controlled very little territory in Mongolia, which could explain the use of ᡩᡠᠯᡳᠮᠪᠠᡳ ᡤᡠᡵᡠᠨ dulimbai gurun as being effectively equivalent to the entire empire, if we presume that it was equivalent to ᡩᠣᡵᡤᡳ dorgi.].
Lei Zhang's Empire, Tianxia and Great Unity: A historical examination and future vision of China’s international communication.
5. The Qing usage of ᡩᡠᠯᡳᠮᠪᠠᡳ ᡤᡠᡵᡠᠨ dulimbai gurun was not wholly consistent. In the early 18th century, some Manchu texts do use the term to mean a continuing 'China' from time immemorial, but in the sense of a constituent element (or indeed, a possession) of the empire, not its entirety.
3. Stephan Peter Bumbacher, Empowered Writing: Exorcistic and Apotropaic Rituals in Medieval China. (St Petersburg: Three Pines Press, 2016).
This poem's verse comes with a lot of context as it was a time in which the royal house of the Zhou (known collectively as the Kings of Zhou) were in a period of decline with limited ability to enforce actual authority beyond their royal fiefs,culminating in the sack of the royal capital Haojing (Luoyang)). The poem itself laments the fate of the fall of royal authority and,tellingly enough,the word tianxia dosen't appear for later on for most of the Zhou dynasty,signifying that tianxia in its original meaning held a very different idea than "China proper" as we know it.
1. Qing official language in both Chinese and Manchu tends to refer to the empire as a possession of the emperor rather than as a transcendent entity. 大清 daqing ('Great Qing') and its Manchu equivalent, ᡩᠠᡳᠴᡳᠩ ᡤᡠᡵᡠᠨ daicing gurun ('Great Qing State') were the most common, but followed by terms like 我朝 wochao ('my dynasty') and 本朝 benchao ('this dynasty'). Thus, on occasions when less overtly possessive terms were used, there was still a possessive subtext.
初，巨鹿張角奉事黃、老，以妖術教授，號「太平道。」咒符水以療病，令病者跪拜首過，或時病愈，眾共神而信之。角分遣弟子周行四方，轉相誑誘，十餘年間，徒眾數十萬，自青、徐、幽、冀、荊、揚、兗、豫八州之人，莫不畢應。或棄賣財產、流移奔赴，填塞道路，未至病死者亦以萬數。郡縣不解其意，反言角以善道教化，為民所歸。.
2. The main document cited for the use of ᡩᡠᠯᡳᠮᠪᠠᡳ ᡤᡠᡵᡠᠨ dulimbai gurun in Manchu, the Treaty of Nerchinsk, is problematic in part because the Manchu version was a translation from Latin, and partly because the placement of genitives is somewhat ambiguous. In addition, the Russian version usually uses Хинского государство Chinskogo gosudartsvo ('Qing state') where the Manchu uses ᡩᡠᠯᡳᠮᠪᠠᡳ ᡤᡠᡵᡠᠨ dulimbai gurun, implying that the term was understood to mean the territory of the Qing in particular, not a transcendent China.
3. Andrew H Plaks, The Four Masterworks of the Ming Novel (Princeton (N.J.): Princeton University Press, 1987).