Winifred B. Maher and Brendan Maher in "The ship of fools: Stultifera Navis or ignis fatuus?" (1982, admittedly psychological researchers) allege that various writers have taken Foucault's claim at face value but there is little evidence to support it. This is similarly argued by Andrew Scull's March 2007 article "Foucault's Fictions: Scholarship of Fools) (Times Literary Supplement). And further supported by Richard Wilson ((2013) "Ship of Fools: Foucault and the Shakespeareans"). And Foucault's approach to historical evidence and his accuracy in that work has been criticised before as in Porter's "Great Confinement" (1990). Foucault was more a philosopher than historian, as Gary Gutting argued in his 1994 "Foucault and the History of Madness" (Cambridge Companion to Foucault), Foucault was more interested in broad analysis of historical themes and zeitgeists than specific facts.
Thanks a lot for looking into it. I know Foucault was pretty eclectic and an anomaly but it seemed like a very strange and specific thing to just make up. Especially since he goes out of his way to emphasize it was real thing. \shrug\.
To do the history of madness will therefore mean: to make a structural study of the historical ensemble - notions, institutions, juridical and police measures, scientific concepts - which hold captive a madness whose wild state can never in itself be restored; but, short of this inaccessible primitive purity, structural study must ascend back to the decision which at once joins and separates reason and madness; it must strive to discover the perpetual exchange, the obscure common root, the originary affrontment which gives meaning to the unity as much as to the opposition of sense and the senseless.
Rosen, George. “The Mentally Ill and the Community in Western and Central Europe During the Late Middle Ages and the Renaissance,” Journal of the History of Medicine and Allied Sciences 19, no. 4 (1964): 377–88.
So basically, Foucault was never trying to write a History of Madness itself; but a history not of 'Madness itself', which is naturally impossible to grasp in the light of reason: thus using the only way possible, by the review of Madness objectified and confined.
Midelfort, H. C. Erik. "Madness and Civilization in Early Modern Europe: A Reappraisal of Michel Foucault", in After the Reformation: Essays in Honor of J. H. Hexter. Barbara C. Malament, ed. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2016.
So no, it seems unlikely that the ship of fools as a solution to mental illness was ever a thing, or at least that if it was, it was not at all a common or well-documented one.