Madison and others wanted it as a protection against a slave revolt - to have a State Militia close at hand vs a standing army that would (they believed) be quartered close to the National Capitol. Then there's the notion that this was to counter-balance Article I that gives the central government the power to raise and equip an Army. This was part of how the South +/-60 years tried to justify secession by force of arms. That, and the fact the amendment reads " “A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.” Not sure how anyone can explain that first bit as meaning INDIVIDUALS not associated with said well regulated militia had a right to own their personal weapons. The later phrase "the people" very clearly did NOT apply to "all citizens" because a considerable number of them were black and free, and this too would NOT have passed muster with the slave owners who were well represented at the signing ceremony and essential to the ratification. Only if this was intended to apply to State Militias and not individuals would the slave owners, who knew their State (and most in the North) would never allow blacks in any militia, agree to sign/ratify. On a personal note, during Nam, I served with college educated white southerners who could not believe many of the old "legendary" cowboys like Deadwood Dick (played by Ronny Reagan in the movies) could be black "because nobody would've let them have guns." even after the civil war.
Her bill passed anyway, but has done absolutely nothing to curb violence because high capacity magazines don't have serial numbers, and are available in every state bordering Colorado.
This is the best answer I’ve seen. I’m pretty liberal in CA. I own guns. Talking to a buddy who’s very in the middle from Missouri and he couldn’t believe the small amount gun owners have to go through here to own a firearm. He said he wishes they had that too because it’s crazy to give firearms to just anyone at anytime. So many people I know from red states also think some form of gun control should happen. It’s just a trigger word now for GOP to make sure you think they’re “coming for your guns”.
Magazines are almost infinitely reusable. They are not bullets. They are not ammunition. They won't "run out". Her comments were publicised as far up the chain as the , and were widely mocked.