To be crass, most federal Indian policy for two hundred years was motivated by the expectation that the native populations would be dying out in short order. Despite best efforts of settlers and state-makers, this still hadn’t happened by the mid-1800s, so assimilation and allotment became the policy. Here, we have the boarding schools come into vogue, where native children were forcibly removed from the reservations to which their parents had been forcibly removed. This policy also did not work. The government began micromanaging land by parceling out reserved areas to individual native families, who promptly lost them to the wrongful imposition of state taxes. The reserved lands became checkerboarded with “fee simple” lands occupied by settlers of European descent. I’ll return to this in a bit.
The pattern you laid out directly applies to the two Treaties of Fort Laramie (and three later revisions), between the US and the various tribes of the Lakota, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other bands across much of what is now N and S Dakota, Wyoming, Nebraska, and Montana. The initial treaty (1851) gave the Lakota rights to the Black Hills, which is an incredibly spiritually important area. However, white prospectors moving west soon found gold in the Black Hills and began encroaching on Lakota lands. White settlers flooded into the area, pushing out or killing Native peoples, which sparked a series of conflicts from 1854 to 1891 that came to be known as the Sioux Wars. Many of the (scant) events that are taught in the US school system about the US wars against the Native Americans come from this period, such as the Sand Creek and Wounded Knee Massacres, the Battle of Little Bighorn, and Sitting Bull's flight to Canada. In 1868, following several conflicts, the second Treaty of Fort Laramie was signed between the US and many of the same signatories to the first. This treaty reaffirmed that the Black Hills were to be part of the Great Sioux Reservation, but the US did not stop white settlers from moving into the area and mining the Hills, and by 1877 the US annexed the Black Hills. The Sioux Nation continues to contest the US annexation of the Black Hills. If you are interested, you can access the 1868 treaty online here: .