Especially with the case of S Korea and Japan, their animosity and lack of common ground with one another was not too troubling for most US officials at the time, considering that both states were very weak and surrounded (mostly) by water where the US Navy reignes supreme. The desire of multilateralism or trilateralism with Korea and Japan in more recent decades is due largely to the rise of China, the increased power of both Korea and Japan, and a relative weakening of US power in East Asia. Another way of thinking about this is if all the legs on a stool are weak and flimsy, you'll want to get as many legs as possible. But if there is a strong central pillar rooted in the ground, holding almost all of the weight anyways, it matters less if you have 1 or 5 weak legs on the stool too. Even with Europe devastated and relatively weak too, it had historically recognized industrial capacity, emotional and cultural bonds, and diplomatic initiatives that were already producing their own mutual defense treaties.
Was this one of the considerations? How aware were US diplomats and statesmen of this attitudes? Did effect their thinking?
Multilateralism did have an allure for American policymakers. When composing a peace treaty with Japan in 1951, Dulles--the chief American negotiator--received a planning memo from the State Department that essentially outlined the possibilities of a broad, multilateral alliance with Asia, and the pros and cons of that compared to a series of bilateral treaties. Now, policy memos don't necessarily mean much since dozens might get authored and only a handful becomes the framework for a policy. But the central idea was that a multilateral alliance could, in theory, promote greater stability and self-reliance among its members. This could be a good thing in some cases. If your objective, as it was with the US, is to secure an entire ocean (in this case, the Pacific) against an external threat, you necessarily will have to bring many nations onto your side. If there is a united goal, wouldn't it be easier and stabilizing if all members recognized their responsibilities to one another? A multilateral union could promote common ground. In Europe, a place where US diplomats had hammered out the details of the league of nations less than twenty years before in Paris, the notion of common ground and common defense was an appealing one.