The first victory for the United States of the Creek War was the in November of 1813. This battle was fought by forces commanded by Brigadier General John Coffee, a subordinate of Andrew Jackson. Though Jackson would attempt to "negotiate" peace with the Red Sticks in the following weeks, numerous Creek Indians would be slaughtered before these talks happened, including women and children, as Jackson's forces burned down Creek towns. It was from this particular battle that we learn of Lyncoya. Lyncoya was orphaned as his mother was killed at the "Battle" of Tallushatchee. As a 10-month old baby, Jackson decided to take this child into his family. But this is where we get into the penultimate question: why?
The belief that Native American culture is inferior to that of the White colonists is racist, but is borne out of a much larger tradition that views Native Americans as potential equals, if only they were civilized (how this is to be effected varies widely - certainly Washinon did not advocate for the removal of Native Americans, while Jefferson has a very nationalistic investment in defending America against the Buffonist view that Europe is environmentally superior).
Cut and dry? Yes, Andrew Jackson was a racist. And no, the fact that he "adopted" (read: stole) an Indian child doesn't invalidate this accusation or the evidence of his genocidal actions and policies. That's akin to saying a criminal who kidnaps a child of a family they murdered is absolved of the crime because they took the now orphaned child in. First, I will address the issue of his "adoption" of Lyncoya. Then I will discuss the wider perspectives of Jackson's overall conduct.
It is from this perspective that we must understand Jackson's political posturing with regards to Indian Affairs. Though he proclaimed to have the best interests of Indians at heart, the actualization of these interests inherently involved the death of Indians as it implied a deprivation of rights and humanity (metaphorically being depicted in his relationship to Lyncoya). Indians were understood by Jackson and his contemporaries to be incapable of governing ourselves, therefore the civilized Christians should act to govern us as it was their assumed "burden" to bear. If Indians misbehaved, they would be punished. Paternalism thus became integral to the secular facade of Manifest Destiny and this is how Jackson expressed his racism. And if Indians didn't play along, well, genocide was always on the table.