First, the Ottoman Army always had a sizeable portion of Christian soldiers. I mean, always. If there is any point of a state like the Ottoman Empire waging wars against others for political and economic reasons, those are (beyond other, ideological reasons): getting taxes and recruiting soldiers. Now, you can recruit soldiers in three different ways. You can have a central, citizen-army like that of Napoleon, but that was not a thing until the 19th century. Alternatively, you can have a devshirme army. You take non-Muslim children from their families, teach them about Islam and make them learn Turkish (you achieve this through sending them to Turkish families with whom they grow up) and you have a janissary army. But again this is not what matters for us here, because these chaps become Muslim. The third option is what is relevant here; you conquer Serbia, you obviously find a quite complex social system with nobles and all that. What Ottomans did mostly is leaving the local nobles and the local system intact, welcoming but not directly encouraging conversion to Islam or Turkification. If there is a war, then you spread the word and expect your Serbian vassals (among others) to turn up, which they duly deliver mostly. In the Battle of Ankara in 1402, when many Turkish soldiers from the Anatolian principalities deserted the Ottoman Army, the Serbs stood ground and did not surrender until the Sultan himself (that would be poor I. Bayezid the Thunderbolt who was married to Olivera Despina Hatun, the sister of Serbian King Dejan Lazarevic) was captured by the Timur's army. It would be an exaggeration to think these Serbs fought for a shared Ottoman identity (the marital connection and the pressure of a possible Hungarian invasion played a role, İnalcık argues), of course, but it is certainly not true that the Ottoman Army never had Christian soldiers. The same story applies to the conquest of Constantinople in 1453.
These newspapers record the activities of Syriac intellectuals in galvanising their community to greater participation in the Ottoman project: joining the military, participating in inter-denominational "Ottomanist" clubs, arranging outside visits to churches and so on. They extol the virtues of the constitution, the new Sultan and the Ottoman homeland.