One answer that is traditionally given is that the RN diverted too many ships away from escorting convoys and towards 'hunting groups'. Hunting groups were small squadrons of destroyers which would patrol an area of the sea to hunt down U-boats. These groups were a common feature of the First Battle of the Atlantic in WWI, and had featured significantly in inter-war exercises and training. The classic argument is that the RN saw hunting groups as a more aggressive, offensive strategy, that it preferred to the more passive, defensive strategy of convoy. As such, convoys were neglected and hunting encouraged. However, more recent work suggests that this is untrue. Malcolm Llewellyn-Jones has shown that the RN saw hunting groups as being only useful against an enemy that followed prize rules. Against an enemy that carried out unrestricted submarine warfare, it intended to switch to convoys as soon as possible. Hunting groups were formed at the start of the war, and were common in the first few months, but were only intended as a stop-gap measure until the convoy system was fully set up. British planning assumed that it would take six weeks to fully set up the convoy system. This delay was due to the time needed to put convoy commodores and naval officers into place, to control shipping, as well as the time needed to clear the sea of ships that had departed individually before the war started. These ships needed protection, but could not easily be formed into convoys. Instead, hunting groups were formed to protect them. These hunting groups were fairly effective, sinking three of the seven U-boats sunk in the first two months of the war. However, they soon withdrew from prominence. The last sinking by a hunting group was the sinking of U-35 on the 29th November 1939. In January 1940, Admiral Talbot called for hunting groups to be formed in the North Sea, to attack subs located and forced under by aircraft; the only ships that were spared for this were trawlers, too slow, short-ranged and unseaworthy for the Atlantic convoy route.
Thank you so much! I wasn't aware that interwar destroyers had such limited range and assumed they would be capable of at least as long a journey as slow cargo vessels.