I remember when they immediately announced the cause of the crash.... When it was still dark and no investigation had been done. That was essentially an admission of guilt imo.
Mossad doesn't do what it wants, its specifically driven by the Government's directive and answers to the Prime Minister directly, what you probably meant to say is "Mossad is willing to go to extreme lenhs, including violating friendly nations in order to achieve its goals" and to that I say, the CIA still does that, all serious spy agencies would, because spycraft on these levels cannot succeed in meaningful acts without working outside the rules.
Wait? You boys have been swarming all over this thread for the last hour chanting "Saudi Arabia and Yemen" all in unison together with other tired bits of cobbled-together whataboutism. And you appear in packs too, quite interesting. Silence, then a rapid pattering of whataboutist comments, then silence.
Probably. However, Israel clearly feels that it is worth it. For example, Israel assassinated the head scientist of the Iranian nuclear program and bombed facilities in Iran before. Iran subsequently attempted to attack Israelis in Turkey and Cyprus, but were - as far as publicly known - prevented.
It is unlikely to spin into Iran openly bombing Israel though. Israel is just too powerful for that right now, especially if it is an attack from Syria.
For all intents and purposes, Israel and Iran are sort of in a war. Israel frequently bombs Iranian military systeks in Syria, targeted Iranian ships, and assassinates people in Iran itself. At the same time, Iran has attempted to assassinate Israelis, bombed Israeli commercial ships, and armed internationally recognised terrorist groups that target Israel.
Iran constantly reiterates their intention to wipe Israel off the map while also arming widely recognised terrorist organisations around Israel’s border. They are not an innocent defender, at all. Since the Islamic Revolution, they seek Israel’s destruction and openly communicate this.
Good. Every Iranian weapons factory needs to be cratered, given that 1) They're a murderous regime oppressing their own people 2) They're supplying weapons to another murderous regime (Russia) who invades and murders other people.