1. Did the ruling class in the colonies and early USA purposefully use racism and classism as tools to control the populace and maintain power. (I believe so.).
Telling the story of 1619 as an “English” story also ignores the entirely transnational nature of the early modern Atlantic world and the way competing European powers collectively facilitated racial slavery even as they disagreed about and fought over almost everything else. From the early 1500s forward, the Portuguese, Spanish, English, French, Dutch, and others fought to control the resources of the emerging transatlantic world and worked together to facilitate the dislocation of the indigenous peoples of Africa and the Americas. As historian John Thornton has shown us, the African men and women who appeared almost as if by chance in Virginia in 1619 were there because of a chain of events involving Portugal, Spain, the Netherlands, and England. Virginia was part of the story, but it was a blip on the radar screen.
There are always people who are going to leverage social concepts as a tactic, and are there are always people who are developing new ideas and rhetoric which can make it into the cultural consciousness and become part of that social reality, but I think it's a huge mistake to look at something like racism and say "this is a conspiracy, cynically perpetuated by the powerful to keep the disempowered down", not because elements of that behavior don't ever happen, but because it misunderstands the psychological and sociological nature of social construction.
Morrock, Richard. "Heritage of Strife: The Effects of Colonialist "Divide and Rule" Strategy upon the Colonized Peoples." Science & Society 37, no. 2 (1973): 129-51. Accessed July 7, 2020. .
While I've seen it mentioned occasionally by writers as a road-not-taken of an interracial alliance between blacks and lower class whites (I believe Michelle Alexander talks about it in this way), it was at the same time a violently anti-Native rebellion, ie, the main grievance of the rebels was that Governor Berkeley was trying to keep them from attacking natives on the Virginia frontier and taking their lands. The movement started seeking retaliatory attacks on the Doeg, but soon expanded to attacking the Susquehannock (including massacring women and children), and the Pamunkey.
2. Does that mean that racism and classism are a conspiracy foisted upon the masses of the people to keep them in line. (Not in a real, conspiratorial sense. But it's complicated.).
It has been proposed in more than one state to prohibit its inclusion in any educational facilities, curricula, or materials due to the innacuricies of the work (which some other historians do defend some of, to be fair).
Cohen, Robert. "THE SECOND WORST HISTORY BOOK IN PRINT? RETHINKING "A PEOPLE'S HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES"." Reviews in American History 42, no. 2 (2014): 197-206. Accessed July 7, 2020. .
I think that based on this evidence, and the fact that actual experts seem to largely agree that the codification of race in the legal codes of the colonies and then the united states were based on realpolitik, with consideration given to economic and political power these laws gave to the elite classes, which is then justified by and grounded in racist theory and rhetoric, which developed and changed over time in order to support the existing hierarchy. That said, I haven't actually been able to find whether any of the actors who put these initial policies in place (e.g. the Virginia Slave Acts) ever actually wrote about their motivations and said 'yes, Bacon's Rebellion was a problem".
Generally, I've seen it stated that interracial working class uprisings within the 1600s culminated with Bacon's Rebellion in 1676, and that this scared the Virginia House of Burgesses and was an explicit motivation for the Virginia Slave Acts of 1705. I know that in the latter half of the 1700s and through the 1800s, leading Americans wrote about limiting and controlling working class access to power, and I have seen several quotes by historic American politicians which contrast race and class divisions. The one that I see most often is Calhoun's comments on labor in the North vs. the South.