Today’s theme is Military History, and we want to see everyone share history that fits that theme however they might interpret it. Share stories, whether happy, sad, funny, moving; Share something interesting or profound that you just read; Share what you are currently working on in your research. It is all welcome!
This writeup focusses on periods 2 through 5, as the first and last periods are, comparatively speaking, poorly documented, especially as regards the internal documentation necessary to produce a picture of logistical arrangements.
All of France? Not exactly... Several leftover German garrisons still resist all along the Atlantic coast. Several months before D-Day, in anticipation of Allied landings, Hitler ordered that the main Dutch, Belgian and French ports had to be defended to the last bullet and then sabotaged and destroyed before the Allies seized them. After the landings, the Allied armies had fought to capture some of them (Cherbourg was the first one), but the casualties were often high (the siege of Brest was particularly long and costly for the US Army) and the ports needed heavy repairs due to Allied bombings and German destructions.
5. 1862-64: The establishment of new provincial militia forces under Li Hongzhang (Anhui Army, fighting in Jiangsu) and Zuo Zonang (Chu (a.k.a. New Hunan) Army, fighting in Zhejiang), combined with an Anglo-French intervention campaign, causes the Taiping to be pushed back in the east as well; Nanjing falls to Zeng in July 1864.
Fascinating post. Stuff like this is why I was happy to see you get your flair. I have been an amateur student of naval history for 40+ years but I had never heard of a seaplane lighter before.
By 1863, logistical arrangements could be incredibly sophisticated indeed. Three incomplete reports obtained from Changzhou by Charles Gordon’s mercenary contingent indicate that the city had developed a comparatively sophisticated administration, with one set of records from the main stores recording the reception and distribution of basically all resources; one from possibly a secondary armoury showing the movement specifically of gunpowder and ammunition; and one showing the movement of people and civilian supplies in and out of the city. Each covers a month or two, with a header for each day. The first record is by far the most detailed and the most indicative of the level of sophistication. Movements of as small as 5 rolls of green cloth or 25 catties (15kg) of gunpowder and as large as 100,000 copper cash or 1,500 catties (1 tonne) of gunpowder were recorded, as well as their recipients. In all, the records showed that the depot was handling all sorts of items, including money (both copper and silver), wheat, rice, salt, oil, clothes, cannon, gunpowder, bullets, cannon shot, spearheads, spear shafts, flags, parchment, candles, envelopes, and firewood.