I have this theory that a lot of "traditional British food" became popular due to rationing in WW2. I am thinking of foods like Baked Beanz and tinned tomatoes. How accurate is this, and how big is the lasting impact of WW2 rationing on British cuisine?](.
For the working class diet industrialisation and urbanisation had a major effect in the 19th century, for the upper classes the upheaval of the First World War reduced numbers in domestic service affecting skill- and time-intensive cookery. Shortages and rationing (limited during the First World War, much more extensive during and after the Second World War) certainly didn't help; toad-in-the-hole, a dish of sausages in batter, is hardly a great counterexample to "bland and unhealthy" to start with, and under rationing "That lovely pork sausage in a yellow batter, shining with fat, has given place to a beef (save the mark) beast, flavourless and tough-skinned, in a heavy khaki batter made with milk powder". Derek J. Oddy quotes the British Food Journal in From Plain Fare to Fusion Food: British Diet from the 1890s to the 1990s: "The controls and queues of the past eleven years have confirmed and consolidated, I think, the conservatism of the British housewife in the matter of buying food. . . . Those who succumbed to the official boosting of whalemeat, snoek and brisling mostly wish they had not." Oddy concludes that: "Both wars brought about expediencies in the allocation of food but neither disrupted the long-term pattern of food consumption in Britain. Instead, if there is an overall pattern to the twentieth century from the point of view of food consumption, it should be to consider the period from the 1890s to the 1960s as one of stability – the final era of plain fare.".
Ultimately, the issues with the British working class diet seem to extend deeper into history, into the period of urbanisation during the Industrial Revolution. I intend to read further into this, and hopefully I'll gain more insight as things develop.