Despite the fame of Athenian ostracism, it seems to have only been rarely and sporadically used. In order for an ostracism to occur, the majority of the Athenian assembly first had to vote in favor of holding a separate meeting for an ostracism. Then, according to the Greek biographer and Middle Platonist philosopher Ploutarchos of Chaironeia (lived c. 46 – after c. 119 CE) in his Life of Aristeides , at least six thousand citizens had to show up to the ostracism meeting and cast ostraka in order for the ostracism to be valid.
The Athenians eventually abandoned the system of ostracism entirely; the last person who is ever recorded to have been ostracized from Athens is the politician Hyperbolos, son of Antiphanes, who was ostracized in around 417/6 BCE. A few years after that, in 411 BCE, there was an oligarchic coup, which resulted in the establishment of the short-lived oligarchy of the Four Hundred. Although democracy was soon restored, there is no record of anyone being ostracized from Athens after this date, which suggests that the system may have been abolished and never re-implemented.
Woodhead, A. G. “I.G., I2, 95, and the Ostracism of Hyperbolus.” Hesperia: The Journal of the American School of Classical Studies at Athens, vol. 18, no. 1, The American School of Classical Studies at Athens, 1949, pp. 78–83.
All of this is super fascinating to me, though I’ve gotta admit that I feel pretty stupid that I work with interpreting ostraca in my daily life, have been familiar with the word “ostracize” for decades, and have an intermediate knowledge of Koine Greek (which is really just an elementary knowledge of Classical Greek), and yet have never once put together that ostracize and ostracon share a root.
Rhodes, P. J. (1994), "The Ostracism of Hyberbolus", in Osborne, Robin; Hornblower, Simon (eds.), Ritual, Finance, Politics: Athenian Democratic Accounts presented to David Lewis, Oxford: Clarendon Press (you can find it in Libgen).
How did this happen? Who had the authority to decide that the ostracism was over early? Was there another vote involved, or was it just something that some leading politicians could decide on their own?