This is your first misconception. The term "Jew" as it is used in the modern day doesn't refer to descendants of the tribe of Judah. It refers to inhabitants of the Kingdom of Judah.
This is absolutely fascinating. I’d really love to read more about the early years of the eastern diaspora - from the exilarchs to Zamaris and his 500 cavalry. Any recommendations?
Luke 2:36 refers to a prophet from the tribe of Asher. Does this suggest there were Jews in the Second Temple period who identified themselves with the northern tribes as well (perhaps as a result of the conquest of these territories by the Maccabees)? What became of those identities?
The only remnant of the actual Lost Ten Tribes with any firm genetic evidence are the Samaritans, claiming descent from the tribe of Ephraim (a son of Joseph), living in the same territory but now just 1000 people largely in Israel and the West Bank, a group who based on Y-chromosome DNA and mtDNA studies to have been formed largely from Israelite men and women brought from elsewhere in the Assyrian Empire, along with their major Cohen family (who are Levites).
I should have been somewhat clearer. The Kingdom of Judah did include the territory of the Tribe of Simeon, I only mentioned those two tribes because those were the two tribes mentioned in OP's question.
But to answer your question, the inhabitants of the Kingdom of Judah that were supposedly returned to their homeland by Cyrus the Great were from three tribes: Judah, Benjamin, and Levy. The Levitical priesthood was passed down patrilineally, and it was considered particularly important to maintain that bloodline. So as it turns out, you will actually find many Israelis (and Jews around the world) who will tell you that they are Levites (I believe Levites have been estimated to be 5% of total Jews, but I can't find a source for that right now). But the vast majority of Jews are from the tribes of Benjmain and Judah.
By "a Benjamin" or "a Judah," I assume you just meant the tribes? Because I don't think I ever said that those particular individuals actually existed. I am not claiming any of the tribal origin stories have any historical validity.
Tribal distinctions are a real thing only because people believe them to be a real thing. The Bible is a perfectly valid source for telling you what ancient peoples believed about themselves. If you believe that you're a member of the Tribe of Benjamin, and a bunch of other people believe that too, then there's a tribe of Benjamin now.