Thanks for the huge response (I'm not OP but found it really interesting). I had a couple of followup questions:
The core of a clan is the institutions for ancestor worship: it is the organizational unit of Chinese folk religion to the highest degree as worship of the most distant and sacred ancestors occur in clan chambers, and by worshipping the same lineages of ancestors, clan members reinforce each other's identities. (If you visit a Chinatown, keep an eye on buildings that say "(Lastname) associations"; these are enchanted oversea branches of the original clan worship chambers). Each clan would keep their own ancestral records, a sacred document that retells the past of the clan and conform future clan members by naming generational names, each generation of clan members would have their middle character in their names be the generational name chosen by their distant ancestors; with these generational names one can easily tell the generational hierarchy and degrees of relations within a clan, who are your elders and who are your peers, who you can boink and who you must pay respect to.
- "Extra fun fact: the New Gold Mountain is Melbourne" - do you know why? I'm Victorian (as in from the state of Victoria) and grew up in the gold fields region and was taught that most of the gold mining happened around that region. I'm surprised that Melbourne was the city that got that name rather than say Bendigo. Perhaps the name predated Bendigo (a lot of the cities I'm familiar with were founded during the gold rush)?
While there are great varieties between clans and between counties, most of clans function between the range of large, stratified communes to tightly connected nuclear family groups; clans typically stay together, either in their own villages or even , as to survive in the hostile lands, organizing their resources and capitals together to gain better chances at surviving disasters and wars, while individual nuclear families are merely components of a clan and must act in the clan's best interest; a notable example would be fostering, where clan members without an heir can formally adopt a male from another nuclear family to continue the lineage; the interest of birth parents would be trumped by the needs of a clan in this case. Clans sociologically reproduce and reinforce conservative norms, traditions and cultures through the tight-knitted structure and geographic proximity of clans. Although some clans can grow to incredibly large sizes due to emigration and branching, and many do extend overseas. But even in those cases, the religious rituals of worship still occurs in the ancestral homes as the ancestral roots of clansmen never change.