Though the central aperture in an hourglass has to be within limits ( too big; sand runs out fast, too small; sand tends to clump) the amount of sand could be varied , and the time could be checked against a sundial, until it seemed right. But of course in ancient times they would be using the related clepsydra, or water clock, which would also not be that accurate, but would be good for more than an hour. That, too, could be checked against a sundial. In ancient times, a sundial would be close enough.
To further complicate things, the Italian delegation saw fit to demand the annexation of the port town of Fiume (present day Rijeka) in obedience to the principle of self-determination (as the city, or better the Italian council, had sent a direct appeal to the Italian Government calling for the annexation). While the urban center had a roughly split population with some surveys giving a small margin to the Italian speaking ones (the rural population was largely slavic though), the city had not been included within the London border of 1915 but had been ambiguously reserved for "Croatia". Thus, while Italy had - accordingly to the principle of nationality - probably a better claim to it than it did to certain portions of South-Tyrol, any argument in favor of the annexation had to pass through a tortuous causeway that saw V.E. Orlando's delegation eventually lost and defeated.
This reference states that it had been either ca. 2,900 folds (cooperate price index) or ca. 7,500 folds (consumer price index) inflated since 1877, so 1 yen in 1880 would roughly correspond with 7,500 JPY (ca. 68 USD) now if we use the latter index.
While this set up left more slavic speakers under Italian sovereignty than italian speakers under Yugoslav sovereignty, the Italian authorities tended to base their complaints on a composite and often poorly put together collection of arguments. The Italian participation to the Entente's war effort had been much more significant than the Yugoslav one (considering, in special manner, that Croats and Slovenes had fought on the side of the Central Empires); the status of the Italian communities under Yugoslav sovereignty was much more uncertain than the status of Slavs under Italian sovereignty given the proven democratic character of the Italian state (to be fair, when Nitti said so in 1919 he actually meant to guarantee forms of language and culture autonomy); the border outlined in 1915 had been already reduced as much as possible and further reductions would compromise Italy's border security creating a permanent source of military tension at the frontier; the reportedly smaller Italian presence in certain urban settlements of the regions claimed by Italy was a consequence of systematic policies adopted by the Austro-Hungarian authorities (this one was an almost universal theme repeated almost word-by-word by supporters of the Yugoslav claims), to name a few.
Hey everyone. This is a pretty random, although kind of fun, question. In a book I'm reading, 1948 by Benny Morris, about the war between Israel and Egypt, Jordan, etc. I came across a puzzling sentence:'But most of the Egyptians fled into the desert. The many shoes scattered by the roadsides testified to crumbling Egyptian companies and platoons that had turned into human dust,' wrote one Eighth Brigade chronicler."In short, I'm trying to figure out what it means. Why would fleeing soldiers leave their shoes behind? Is there something about desert warfare in the 1940s that would make this necessary? Is it possibly a cultural signaling of surrender? Were they afraid to be recognized as deserters?Also, I dont think it is just a weird poetic quote as the citation (Vered, FIghters for the Freedom of Israel 3:374) adds "The sight of endless abandoned shoes in the sands of Sinai was to characterize the Israeli victories in the selfsame battlefields in 1956 and 1967."Anyway, I just thought it could be helpful to pose the question to you all.