Usually, this process happens with greater intensity in the early stages of language formation and, for modern languages, it coincides with the 1500s. Most of the writers during that time (like Shakespeare in England, Cervantes in Spain and Camões in Portugal) were presented with a vocabulary that was mostly composed of colloquial and regional expressions, meaning that, in the same territory, you could have word x and word y being used to signify the same thing (this still happens). Sometimes these pre-existent words lacked the poetic intensity or simply did not contain the meaning the writer expected it to, so they came up with a new one by themselves that would condensate all of this. This was usually done by looking into latin or greek word formations which ultimately modernised and elevated the quality of these languages by providing them a "method" for word creation independent of colloquialism—which was what happened during the middle ages—that also put it on par with classical culture.
Thanks! I agree with everything you've said here. After what you've said, it seems clear that the interaction between humanism, the renaissance, and the efforts to bypass medieval latin and go back to earlier sources for borrowings. It also gets me thinking about more outliers to the word-creation game. Modern Hebrew is one obvious one, and I'm curious if Modern Standard Arabic has a similar wordsmith in its past since Muhammed. My impression was that in at least some languages bible translations had a massive impact on language, as did the establishment of early radio stations (I'm thinking of my time in Rwanda and Uganda), and other cases that likely saw a lot of word formation would be the bringing of Swahili to Uganda, or the slang Swahili developing in Nairobi Kenya, or the birth of standardized Malay for political purposes. Another good example would be the Russification of the Russian language following the revolution, where we have words like "mezhdunarodniy" (between nations) instead of "internatsyonalnii" (international) like all of the other Slavic languages, sort of a rejection of latin terminology and perhaps a direct rejection of the project you are talking about?
Thank you for this response. Luckily I was able to come back and read it, because I did appreciate its content.