By examining several cases of technological absence, I would like to demonstrate the various reasons given by scholars to answer the question of why sub-Saharan Africa lacked the same technological suite as Eurasia and why its development was similarly divergent. We will start by examining why the majority of sub-Saharan Africa did not adopt the wheel; to begin, it was not as if the wheel was unknown in Africa. The anthropologist Jack Goody points out that the wheel did penetrate the Sahara (as evidenced by rock engravings of chariots and ox-drawn carts found there) in the west and as far south as Ethiopia in the east [1]; other societies received gifts of carriages and exposure to wheeled vehicles via interactions with European traders. Despite this exposure, the wheel was set aside in the Sahel and outside certain niche contexts, went underutilized elsewhere. The underutilization of the wheel had great implications for trade and economic growth – goods either had to be transported by pack animals or head porterage which in turn limited the types and quantities of goods that could be carried as well as increased the cost of transportation [2]. How did this come to be?
You mention the relative worthlessness of land on the continent, and I'm assuming African governance was also relatively decentralized due to the low population densities, but that begets a comparison to Russia, which although sparsely populated and with equally low land values (in the East at least), still slowly but surely developed from "another" local power into a great power.
10.	Casale, G. (2007). Global Politics in the 1580s: One Canal, Twenty Thousand Cannibals, and an Ottoman Plot to Rule the World. Journal of World History, 18(3), 267–296. doi: 10.1353/jwh.2007.0020.
Tangential to that: densely populated cities are generally associated with technological breakthroughs. How did the major African cities compare to the (disappointingly small) European or (impressive) Eastern cities and capitals of the time (16th century)?
4.	Legassick, M. (1966). Firearms, Horses and Samorian army Organization 1870–1898. The Journal of African History, 7(1), 95–115. doi: 10.1017/s0021853700006101.
You mention something about the reorganization of society and the low population density aspect, but exactly what kind of differences in governance were there between African kingdoms (? sultanates? don't know) and typical European/Eastern powers? Did there style of government possibly have any impact on development?