- drunk Indian. In much of Canada, Indians weren't able to drink until around the 60s, but we were definitely able to be messed up people. Metis and First Nations had gone through a lot, and like many cultures who are going through a lot, self-medicating is a thing that lasts a while. The end result was that when drinking was allowed, there were a lot of people who did a lot of drinking. But since we were already pushed ot the edge of society, we weren't able to be functional alcoholics, and a lot of people ended up on the street, or in ditches, and so on. It was a reality, BUT it also fed in to stereotypes! For example, if you believe in the narrative arch of the Noble Savage, what you are seeing is the last twitch of the man before he disappears. If you believe in the violent archetypes, this is just confirmation that these objectified people are less-than, and you can confirm your racism. You often see this mixed in with the "wisdom" trope, where a character in a movie will dispense sage advice, and then chug whiskey. I actually really dislike this one, since alcohol is such a challenge to our communities, juxtaposing elder stereotypes over alcoholic stereotypes is okay, but doing while ignoring the backstory of the alcoholism makes a very cardboard character that really is just one more level of objectification.
Thank you for your answer. Unfortunately in America natives have been so stereotyped as the “noble savages” (who are portrayed as virtually extinct so you don’t have to think about them any more) that it threw everything I was taught into question. I am looking forward reading more into Native American history and the book suggestions are sure to come in handy.
- violent savage. I should be able to find a better name for this, but basically, while noble savage was a thing on the East Coast of the US (where there were conveniently no Indians), further west, where people were currently involved in dispossessing noncooperative Indians from their land and resources, they preferred to see Indians in a more negative light. Think of any western movie you watched as a kid (or the ones your parents grew up watching). It was probably some combination of all three tropes.