Likewise, the genetic impact on contemporary Britain (especially in Eastern regions, with a less diverse genetic landscape than the other regions) informs us on the consequences of these migrations, but not their make-up or their scale; that's where we need to turn to archeological evidence and historic context.
Overall, it's difficult to consider the likelihood of large-scale migrations that would have left little to none evidence (without even considering the adventus at face value) where a set of small-scale migrations over the Vth and VIth centuries (which are not necessarily that easy to distinguish from later settlements of the IXth and Xth centuries on a genetic ground2) could provide a first explanation with satisfying fitting to archeological and genetic evidence.
So now to actually answer your question. In the early fifth century, as the first Anglo-Saxons were settling, there would have been a lot of British pagans around, possibly a majority of the population. By the mid sixth century however, when the settlement was still ongoing, relatively few Britons would have been pagan, and the ruling elite would have been entirely Christian. When the Anglo-Saxons converted is a little clearer. Augustine's mission began in 597 and over the course of the following century all of the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms were Christianised. Bede provides us with the details of this. However, we probably shouldn't simply accept Bede's claim that no Anglo-Saxons were converted before this. Bede was very Cambrophobic, and later Welsh sources contradict his claim that Britons did not evangelise amongst the Anglo-Saxons. Given that they were converting the Irish during this same period, it seems perfectly possible that some Anglo-Saxons were converted, by the Britons, before Augustine arrived from Rome. This, however, was probably on a small scale.
Similar story regarding the Anglo-Saxon migration. That small scale migration led to 10-40% of British genome coming from Germanic people. Here is the ticker, whenever a population goes past "bronze age technology" subsequent migrations into their territory generally do not change the genetics much. Celtic migrations into Britain, Iranic migrations into Eastern Europe, Goths in southern Europe post-Roman collapse all did not leave a major genetic contribution to the population. Yet the Anglo-Saxon migration did.
Other archaeological evidence for Christianity is also quite limited. There are no certain examples of church buildings from Roman or post-Roman Britain, though there are several very good candidates. On the other hand, some pagan temples and shrines continued to be used possibly into the fifth century (see Dark, Civitas to Kingdom). Evidence of paganism among the elite drops off around this time, but there is also very little post-Roman evidence of Christianity. When in comes to the latter half of the fifth century, we also have very little archaeological evidence of Christianity or Romano-British paganism, in contrast to the Germanic paganism of the Anglo-Saxons, which has produced a lot more material. As such, we must rely primarily on written evidence. St Patrick, almost certainly writing at some point between 410 and 490, condemned a British ruler and his soldiers for killing and enslaving Irish Christians. Patrick was under the impression that these Britons were Christians themselves. Gildas, another British writer (probably living in the mid sixth century) condemns his people for their impiety, but nowhere does he mention British pagans. He also makes it clear that the kings of his day were all Christian, at least nominally.
Post-Imperial Britain was essentially ruined in the Vth century, its institutions having collapsed, its economy significantly simplified and its society disrupted; people coalescing into smaller and impoverished communities. Eastern Britain in particular seems to have been significantly hit by these changes, with fewer emerging communities and early polities forming out of what had been the most Roman part of the diocese, quite possibly possibly because of this, with the difficulties re-building social and economical lives that were more dependent from their relation with the Empire and its institutions.
Don't worry about linking me the study I've found it for myself. Good point about the percentage I missed that.
What native Britons encountered in the Vth and the early VIth century, and largely integrated with, doesn't seems to have been overly aggressive armies or militarized groups but fairly small-sized groups on their own (stressing the difference between a large-scale migration and distinct small-scale migrations especially giving the diversity of local situations) on which they might have found more agency and opportunities : in the context of the question asked by OP, in particular trough an affirmation or re-affirmation of pagan practices as elements of their aggregations in the absence of strong enough institutions.
10-40%, in the Iron age, is a number which is way too high for that to have happened. Big changes in population genetics like that generally occur in neolithic and bronze age migration events.