2. Two-handed spears: Reach and/or speed. Short two-handed spears typically have more reach than one-handed weapons other than spears, and more reach than many two-handed non-spear weapons, and are fast (due to the leverage of the two-handed grip). Very long two-handed spears (i.e., pikes) lose much of this speed but have tremendous reach.
Haynes' point (which is much more recent than Goldsworthy's) in particular is that the auxiliaries were integrated into the army in a variety of ways, ranging from the preservation of individual units, effectively as just another type of soldier, to the establishment of (often consciously and artificially constructed) "nations" of auxiliaries. Haynes points out that these auxiliary nations in particular, like the Batavians and Thracians, are difficult to describe either as being part of or separate from the Roman army as a whole. They were un-Roman, in that both they and the Romans made a point of distinguishing themselves in as many ways possible from the legions, but also were subject (at least sometimes) to Roman levies, Roman settlements, and Roman laws. But not always. The most famous of these auxiliary "nations" often established themselves as separate communities nominally outside the empire, creating artificial traditions and pointedly refusing to adhere to Roman methods of recruitment and manpower usage. Most famous among them is of course the Batavians, whom Haynes points out specifically. The Batavians created an invented society where there was none before, established a non-sustainable pastoral economy despite being surrounded by agricultural societies and not blessed with particularly good pasture land, and structured their society in a deliberately archaising manner, ultimately effectively dying out because of the unsustainability of their social structure. Haynes points out that while much of this was due to Roman pressure, nonetheless much of it appears to have been internal, and the evidence (and importantly Haynes breaks significantly from the onomastic evidence, which increasingly we have found in Imperial prosopography in general is not actually very good) suggests that most auxiliary manpower even in non-"national" units was organized, recruited, and sent out from auxiliary "nations" in northern Gaul and Thrace. Militarily these were, to varying degrees, Roman soldiers--nobody disputes that. But Haynes argues very convincingly that the relationship between Roman societies and the societies from which Roman auxiliaries were recruited is not nearly as simple as Mann's (J. C. Mann, Legionary recruitment and veteran settlement during the Principate (1983)) depiction of auxiliary recruitment as a simplistic process of foreign citizen-->auxiliary-->Roman army-->Roman citizen-->bona fide Roman, which is essentially still the model that Goldsworthy uses.
We don't often hear of their use. But they (spears and/or javelins that could be used as thrusting weapons) were part of the standard equipment of the legionary.
Thus, swords can be very common on the battlefield, even if nobody is carrying them as their main weapon. Off the battlefield, swords are still useful, as they can usually still be worn at the side while carrying out one's day-to-day activities, if the law allows. If the need for defence or the display of status or masculinity demands the wearing of weapons, a sword is much more convenient than a spear.
Second, while it might be mechanically obvious that swordsmen in very close quarters have an advantage over spearmen, they still need to get to very close quarters. If sword-and-spear tries to fight against spear-and-shield from their extreme range, they will probably lose. To close in through the spear points is uncertain (and the Romans did not always succeed). Battlefield success with sword-and-shield against spear-and-shield needs a willingness to get in and fight as closely as possible - a willingness not always present in poorly trained or green troops - and the tactical flexibility and initiative in lower-level leadership to take advantage of opportunities. Polybius, as already referenced, discusses this in the context of Romans vs pike phalanx. That the Romans still lost battles against spearmen/pikemen, despite training, flexibility, and initiative, shows that sword-and-shield was no anti-spear panacaea. But it could work.