It wasn't about "surrender talks" and all that — the US were demanding an unconditional surrender, which means no negotiations, and that could be conveyed in a sentence or two. The Japanese were perfectly capable of putting that out (and they didn't need to translate it; both they and the US had plenty of English–Japanese translators). Yes, you later have to sign formal documents. But if the Japanese had wanted to they could have acceded to Allied demands quite quickly. (This is what they did on August 15th, 1945, even though the formal surrender wasn't until September 2nd.).
Apparently it was very controversial to hold the emperor to account (they didn’t bother anyway afaik) because he was revered as a god, I always thought that was the dumbest argument ever because half of the National socialist party believed in wacky shit but we don’t ever discuss extending the same courtesy to them.
But here's the thing. It wasn't meant to be a reasonable amount of time. The US never planned it as, "we'll drop one bomb, and if they don't surrender, we'll drop another." There was meant to be a week between the two bombings, but that was just a matter of expected schedule. The schedule got changed for very non-strategic reasons: the weather conditions. The people on Tinian had no belief that one bomb or two bombs was going to end the war; the people who made the bombs (notably General Groves) thought it might take 5 bombs or so before the Japanese surrendered. Truman had _zero_ input onto whether a second bomb would be dropped, and as far as I can tell, _was not even told that it would be_. The strike order had a lot of detail about the use of the _first_ bomb, and then essentially said, "you can drop as many as you have available after that at your discretion.".
And I’ll put my hand up and admit that my knowledge of World War Two is more based on the eastern front and I don’t know an awful lot about the Asian conflict, but I was under the impression the war council basically came to a split decision when it came to surrendering and the military almost staged (another?) coup.
There is a lot on the US survey teams that went into Hiroshima and Nagasaki after the war, and the postwar efforts to monitor the health effects on the Japanese (e.g., Lindee's Suffering Made Real) but almost nothing on the initial Japanese effort, even in biographies of some of the principle people involved (like Yoshio Nishina).