Volume VI tells the story of an era bounded by the , and the , and we welcome everyone to share history that related to that period, whatever else it might be about. Share stories, whether happy, sad, funny, moving; Share something interesting or profound that you just read; Share what you are currently working on in your research. It is all welcome!
Prehistory of the Oregon Coast: The Effects of Excavation Strategies and Assemblage Size on Archaeological Inquiry, Routledge.
Schnapp, Jeffrey. (1991). Virgin Words: Hildegard of Bingen's Lingua ignota and the Development of Imaginary Languages Ancient to Modern. Exemplaria. 3. 267-298. 10.1179/104125791790511223. Starting on page 283.
Houses and pithouse villages accompanied the technologies for mass harvesting and storage of acorns and salmon for interior people like the Cow Creek band of the Umpqua, Hupa and Karuk; and acorns, a variety of fish/intertidal species and sea mammals among coastal groups like the Tolowa, Yurok and Wiyot.
Lavigne, Frank et al. “Source of the great A.D. 1257 mystery eruption unveiled, Samalas volcano, Rinjani Volcanic Complex, Indonesia.” PNAS 110, no. 42 (2013): 16742-16747. www.pnas.org/cgi/doi/10.1073/pnas.1307520110.
So why might Lingua Ignota have been made? Well, Hildegard was religious and a mystic, so there was probably some divine goals—as Jeffrey Schnapp notes in his analysis, the vocabulary/etymology appears very symbolic at times: the word for “God” (aigonz) begins with the first letter of the alphabet and ends with the last, whereas the word for “Jesus” (liuionz) starts with the middle-most letter and ends with the last, “each word appearing to mime its own position within salvation history” (290). There is broader possible explanation, rooting into the Bible. As the legend of Babel goes, there was an early Adamic language spoken by all people on earth, until the Tower of Babel is built and God spreads the nations, creating new languages (see Genesis Chapter 11 for more on that). As we may [or may not] see over the next month (depending on how well I keep up with this whole thing), a goal of many language inventors is symbolically destroy Babel, and revive this Adamic language (in spirit? literally figure out what they spoke and bring it back?) so that humanity can all speak the same language again. Some people try to do so by making languages that are easy to learn, while others categorized and subdivided every facet of the universe and built languages around this taxonomy, so that their language could explain the “truth” of how the universe works.
So, what do we see? Well, winter 1257-1258, when Þorgils was killed, was exceptionally harsh; Þorgils saga skarða says that nobody had ever recalled such a bad winter, and every Icelandic annal records a plague outbreak that killed 400 people. Now, the plague started before the eruption could have had an impact, but the harsh winter could have been influenced by the eruption, and definitely made it worse. By summer, it started off stormy, and a ship carrying some of Gizurr Þorvaldsson’s enemies sank in a storm. By August of that year, when Gizurr returned to Iceland, the weather appears to have been fine and clear.