This is a topic that seems to come up a lot, and you're right, it's a very common misconception. Frankly far too many people seem to have had their interpretation of the past coloured by the famous Monty Python "mud farmer" scene and apocryphal Early Modern myths about hygiene such as Elizabeth I "having four baths a year whether she needed it or no." (You can read /u/mikedash's fascinating rebuttal of that particular myth .).
In the West, Greek and Roman traditions never died in the areas where the Roman presence remained until early 6th century and were propagated to other regions with the Christianity and Mediterranean culture, while the people in Central and Eastern Europe have been using less sophisticated but as much if not more practical baths, often communal ones since ancient times, at least according to Herodotus writing about Scythians. This practice could have been either shared or quickly adopted by Scandinavians. Of course, a good bath was a quite rare treat for most peasants who due to all the preparations requited, including collection of wood and water, but this was still pretty feasible and also made bathing a social event. Still, peasants were quite commonly washing and bathing in a nearby water sources whenever weather allowed, as strongly suggested by numerous superstitions (not to swim in deep water before Midsummer Eve, avoid washing or bathing before dusk or after dark, wear something red to repel water demons etc.).
Bath houses, being large, warm buildings full of hot, humid air, often-stagnant water shared between potentially thousands of people while being heated, and masses of people sweating, breathing on each other and scraping, were massive infection vectors for plague and a whole variety of unpleasant disease, and it was this that the Church was condemning, as much as it was objecting to collective public nudity. That people typically didn't bathe, however, doesn't mean that they didn't wash. Nearly all medieval settlements would have had access to a running water source which was convenient for washing both personally, as well as the cleaning of laundry. A number of contemporary images depict women washing laundry in rivers, for example. Parish Rolls, a record of births, baptisms, marriages and deaths in each parish, from across medieval England, show that drowning in rivers whilst washing or doing laundry was relatively common among accidental deaths, implying that it was a commonplace activity.
So to sum it up. It seems that medieval people were pretty clean for historical standards and were definitely more frequent bathers than their descendants in 16th-18th century, especially in the West.
In short, medieval Europeams bathed quite often and hygiene can generally be considered better than that common in later times, although the latter was not an uniform change. Of course, taking a bath was not as common as it is today in well-developed countries due to technical and practical obstacles that made preparing the bath a time- and labour-consuming process, but they washed bathed quite often, especially in comparison with the general bathing practices in 16th-19th century.
This is actual mercury, right? Kind of a sidetrack, but I'm a bit becroggled at the the thought of any amount being available for a penny in ninth century England. The most common ore (cinnabar) is usually found in areas with volcanic activity.
Brother Rudoph, a Cistercian monk from the Morimond Abbey (although there is a theory linking him with German Biberach) who resided in Polish parish of Ruda (now Rudy, Poland) somewhere in late 13th century wrote a book Summa de confessionis discretione, where, along the eponymous suggestions for making confessions and administering the sacrament of penance he noted numerous superstitions and pagan beliefs of the local populace and, not being local, tried to make comparisons with Western European (mostly German) and Ancient customs. Many of these superstitions are related to bathing and swimming, what also suggests that similar customs could have existed in contemporary Holy Roman Empire or France (possibly both). Frequent bathing of children and regular washing and bathing in cold water (or warm in case of very small children) is often noted by medieval visitors to Poland, Lithuania, Kievan Rus, Novgorod and Scandinavia who often express astonishment that people are commonly washing outside even in harsh winter.
A great answer — thanks so much! I have really hated this idea that medieval folks were just filthy all the time and that nobody cared. It’s nice to see that there is such excellent proof to dispel this commonly circulated fallacy and myth.