There are many similar questions with fantastic answers, which I shall link below. I can answer part of your question briefly here.
Sinhala kings were actively engaged in trying to maintain their independence from mainland India, and even in certain eras trying to assert control over regions of India and be a "player" in the contest for control of regions of India. Mahavihara Buddhism (Theravada) was largely under the control or influence of Sinhala kings, whereas other schools of Buddhism and Hindu thought were either well established enough to exert their own control, or were under the control of Hindu or Buddhist rivals in the mainland. The independence of Sinhala Buddhism was part of how Sri Lanka exerted an independent identity and maintained its uniqueness from southern India and other regional rivals. These kings were directly threatened by the Tamil invasions, and Sinhala Buddhism provided an ideological support to their struggles to repel the southern India invaders- it allowed them to say to the public "we are standing up for your beliefs, not just the dominance of one oligarchy over another".
So in Sri Lanka you have a socio-linguistic group (the Sinhala) that recognizes Hinduism as being part of a foreign power that potentially threatens their own dominion and independence. In the mainland, you have Buddhists and Hindus in what is already a religiously plural environment actively cribbing practices and doctrines from one another in order to gain popular and elite support. You have institutional structures that are blurring the distinctions as well by teaching a more cosmopolitan vision of what it means to be an educated monk or priest, and a lot of illiterate and semi-literate lay people who are only dimly aware of the distinctions between a Buddha and a god to begin with.
Smith, Huston, and Philip Novak. 2003. Buddhism A Concise Introduction. New York: HarperCollins World.
To a certain extent, you have to recognize that the average person is not committed to ideological positions but is instead a consumer of religion and patron of various shrines and priests. If the Hindus claim to have a magical verse that protects you from lightning, then the Buddhists have to have one too. We see that Buddhism over time begins to adopt these aspects of popular religion that, whatever their origin, tend to blur the distinction between Buddhism as a unique spiritual path vs. just another of the multiple gods that you can patronize for protection, good fortune, etc.