The best way to think about the Colonial Colleges (more on them ), which included Princeton, is to think of them as a fairly exclusive boarding school for white boys, attended by boys and men of all ages with some day students. It's an imperfect analogy but it works well enough to communicate what "college" was like in those times. Students' days were fairly regimented and similar day to day - the concept of having a major was still more than a century in the making - and the primary function of their education was to teach them to be smart by teaching them the things that smart men knew. Which is to say, their education wasn't practical in the way we think of a college education today. Rather, they followed what's known as a "classical liberal arts education.".
One more note as I'm pondering this, just as far as 'why ask this' - there's a fair branch of learning sciences, as I read it, that's trying to get away from a eurocentric understanding of learning, so the value of Latin and Freek for understanding English and romance languages wouldn't be broadly applicable to the modern student (whereas, say, strong study habits would) - really, this comes back to the differing understandings of what learning for that you're referring to in your answer - modern students getting away from 'knowing x because that's what people who know things know.'.
I have to defer to those who know more about the habits of educated men (I'm more interested in the process that got them there than what they did with it) of the era but it's my understanding that if it happened - two formally educated American men corresponding with each other in a language other than English - was a choice they made, rather than a social norm.
Got it, thanks! I've done some study of language/writing acquisition, and there's good indication (if memory serves) that understanding roots is helpful for writing, though transfer can get start getting really tricky. I'm generally curious about questions like this because I find learning sciences is so often counter-intuitive, and something that feels like it should help doesn't.