The Imperial Japanese Navy also did not really focus on carriers in the way you seem to be implying. While the IJN certainly saw great value in carriers, and likely had the world's best carrier air arm in 1941, the Japanese did not consider carriers to be the decisive arm of engagement. While some officers within the IJN (not including Admiral Yamamoto) were air power zealots who advocated scrapping the battlefleet in favor of more carriers, they were not dominant. The Japanese Navy's carrier doctrine focused on using the massed striking power of their carriers to overwhelm and destroy the enemy's carriers from beyond the enemy's effective range, not as the decisive engagement, but as a necessary prelude to the actual decisive battle to ensure the Japanese would have air superiority over the area of the decisive battle and to enable Japanese carrier aircraft to harass the enemy's battlefleet, hopefully slowing and disrupting it prior to the actual decisive battle. The Navy's land based bomber force was supposed to assist in this by harassing and attriting the enemy fleet as it made its way across the Pacific. The Japanese assumed that their likely opponent would be the Americans sailing west from Pearl Harbor, but a British fleet sailing north from Singapore would have undoubtedly met with the same attentions. Depending on how the engagement played out, the Japanese would ideally seek an initial night engagement by light forces (including their heavy cruisers and the battlecruisers/battleships of the Kongō class to break through the enemy's screening forces and clear a path for the destroyers) to deliver a crippling blow via torpedo attack, followed by an early morning surface action to finish off the remnants. If the IJN was unable to fight the night battle, it would have relied on its air superiority and long range gunnery, combined with torpedo attacks, to cripple the enemy before closing range to finish off the enemy's battle fleet. Interestingly, the destroyer was as much a focus for the IJN as anything else, as the Japanese put great faith in the power of the destroyer as a torpedo attack platform. Notably, in the plans for a night battle, the Japanese plan would call for the sacrifice of their heavy cruisers and even fast battleships if it meant clearing a path for the destroyers to make a torpedo attack. Regardless, the IJN remained doctrinally focused on the decisiveness of a surface engagement between capital ships, and while the IJNs carriers were a powerful supporting element of this doctrine, the carriers remained exactly that: a support for the battlefleet.
Well the Washinon Naval Treaty! The 1922 Agreement placed broad limits on different kinds of ships that made up the navies of the world. And in Capital Ship tonnage the UK accepted rough parity with the United States and a modest superiority over Japan in a 5:5:3 ratio, with France and Italy trailing behind.