Understand that the Dutch very quickly became a minority in Anglo New York. The Dutch population of New Netherland was never large, with around 2500 people in New Amsterdam and 1000 in Beverwijk (Modern New York and Albany respectively) in 1664. Plus there were a scattering of smaller towns and patroonships (a sort of feudal estate) between the two and in modern New Jersey. Of that small population, much of the population was not actually Dutch, instead being made up of other Europeans who spoke other languages, significant Native communites, and the enslaved/freed slaves.
So it kinda went on like this for some time. The people in NYC were too busy with stuff to really care what the Dutch farming families were up to. ...Until the Revolutionary War hit. Remember how those Dutch settlements had been set up to protect against outsiders? Well suddenly everyone wondered where they stood. Were they pro-British (Tories) or Patriots? The answer was that the Dutch were mostly...ambivalent. Which didn’t play well with the rebellious Patriots. But it was all rendered moot when the English attacked and the war played out in Dutch communities’ literal backyards. (Kinderhook is home to numerous Revolutionary War historic sites). It was a mostly-terrible 9 years, especially because crops would be burned by either side — by the British so it couldn’t feed Americans, and by the Americans so it couldn’t feed the British. The local residents were left hungry, and Black families, now technically free under British occupation, had to make the choice between staying with the Dutch people who enslaved them (but did provide food), and an uncertain future with no food in sight. In the end, the ones who stayed with the Dutch often fared better, because when the Patriots were victorious, slavery became the rule of the land again.
During one conflict, some Dutch ships even showed up off the coast of Staten Island, and with the help of Dutch locals, were able to take over once more when the Dutch won the war back home. That’s when they renamed New York to New Orange after their king, William of Orange.