Nationalism of today usually has nation as its base, sometimes religion can also be involved, yes, but Russian identity now is very different from Russian identity in 16th century, for example: it was probably more open to people integrating into society (but only if they paid considerable price).
Change in Russian psychology is generally considered to start occuring after the Time of Troubles and with the forming of Russia's New Model Army (1630s-1640s), primarily because of influence from European mercenaries (although it must be noted that there always have been a lot of foreigners in Russia up to this point - they just didn't really blend into society). More complete incorporation of Russia into inner European politics happened during reign of Peter I, although French-reminiscing courtly customs would become norm only later in 18th century. Before this, major inspiration for Russia came in the form of Netherlands - that's where Peter I was studying the navy.
This is a complex question, because historians, political theorists, international relations scholars, international law scholars, and political philosophers understand it differently. The easiest way to parse those differences is to identify which side of the dyad is emphasized in the answer: nation or state. I'll go with emphasis on "state.".
By the time you reach Adam Smith's writing in the 18th century the notions of where wealth lies have progressed to a finer articulation of supply and demand, the uses of national currency, productivity, and other ideas still built on by present day economists, but you still have colonial dynamics in play that continue reverberating through history into the present day; the ACW, for one example, is often framed in terms of the South's colonial economy fighting the North's new industrial might.
A very belated thank you for your answer. I thought I'd be able to into this period in my writing, but life directed me elsewhere for a few weeks. I felt there was something missing in how I was thinking about this topic, and you reminded me of the economic dimension, which should have been obvious to me all along.