In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Not yet. But I’ll be surprised if Christina Bobb doesn’t at least end up facing disciplinary action for her false certification of the MAL search. Repeating the “mistake” with another similar certification would demonstrate criminal intent perfectly.
Eh. The purpose of stealing highly classified documents at significant legal risk in doing so ... is to be able to use them in some way at some point in the future.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
Jay Bratt, the chief of the counterintelligence and export control section at the Justice Department, communicated to Trump’s lawyers after the FBI search that the department was concerned Trump still may not have returned all the classified documents in his possession. The Washinon Post has previously reported that officials at the National Archives also believe that there may still be more records missing. So they know some of the documents that are still missing. The question is what Trump did with them.
Interesting. So DOJ didn't ask, a Judge did? Obviously, we know it wasn't going to be Cannon. So it either had to be the Magistrate Judge who signed off on the initial warrant, or maybe Special Master Dearie?
DOJ to Magistrate Judge: "Hi. We'd like a search warrant. Here's our affidavit confirming there are classified documents stored at these two locations.".
Right. And that gets him out of any (additional) provable legal jeopardy ... but it also destroys whatever "value" he felt that swiping these documents had - be it nostalgia value, barter value (make a deal with the gov. to get out of other charges), or just blatant sales/negotiating value - "hey Saudi Arabia, how about you approve me building a condo building and I just might accidentally leave some documents around at the job site one day...".