I grew up in the British education system and am now a grad student at a program here in the States, and my field is colonial South Asia with a broader focus on British imperialism, so I may be able to offer some insight. I apologize if this response is not up this subs usual standards. However this is a very abstract question (I don't mean that in a negative way btw, it is also a very interesting one) that is difficult to quantify. It's kind of difficult to prove or disprove a statement of negation like the one Higgins made. It not like the academy has a running tally of "articles that critique imperialism as a ratio to total articles published." But anyway, I will do my best to try and give some insight.
Do European institutions have similar critical lenses of imperialism? I have no idea. Much of my information about European institutions come from the same sources as everyone else (e.g. the recent NY Times piece about French academics denouncing "U.S.-based theories of race and postcolonialism"). But it would be difficult to imagine that the study of empire is absent in its entirety. If historians at U.S. institutions are traveling to British archives and writing fabulous histories of empire, wouldn't British academics be doing so as well? I'd be interested to hear from someone based in a UK/EU university on this point.
interesting. Im american and studied history in american universities and when i saw the original post thought "what could he be talking about, I couldn't avoid a heavy dose of anti-imperialist sentiment in my studies if i had tried" (I studied early american history through reconstruction). I supposed i didnt expect such a big gulf across the pond although it does make sense that it would exist to some extent.
But the way Dalrymple focuses on military campaigns, romanticizes numerous aspects of British-Indian relations, portrays the early 19th century as something of a mostly peaceful time, gives something of an equal weight to prosperity in some sectors vs devastation in others, and ultimately spends very little time on the overarching structure of colonial rule itself, means you can definitely argue Dalrymple has a somewhat simplified take on colonial Indian history which contributes to the continuing popular culture images of Raj nostalgia.
Yes! This has the twin impact of making a lot of people undervalue social sciences expertise and also feeding a black-and-white perception of world events. When you never have to critically engage with subject matter or the approach of a given work, it's easier to accept absolutist positions like American exceptionalism. Anecdotally, I feel like I've observed this trend in operation between my parents--my mother studied political science before going to law school while my father did an engineering program. He's very good at problem-solving in a technical setting, but tends to make a lot of absolutist statements about (for example) political issues and take news commentators at face value. The critical thinking skills that are taught in university-level social sciences courses are so important to operating in the modern information ecosystem, but large swaths of the American public never learn them because secondary schooling tends to favor rote memorization and surface interpretations, as you well note.
Sure. I am busy today so this might not be the most well written answer I could give, so I apologize if my thoughts here are not entirely coherent or well structured. I would also like to note I credit Dalrymple as being one of my major inspirations to study colonial India. It is unquestionable he is an incredible writer, and simply the way he forms his prose is an example to all of us in the academy. His travel books are great too. He is also a well trained historian, it's not like what he writes is simply "bad history," it's more that he is not particularly original and he sometimes ignores larger historiographic debates.
You're right! I misremembered. Although, I think the essay still contains the heart and outlines the contours of Immerwahr's book, which is perhaps why I thought of Kramer's response (criticizing the methodology, the terminology, and even the premise of the essay) as a book review.
Yeah this is all true. I suppose we just kind of enter into anecdotal territory here. Ny undergrad and graduate experience has been pretty strong on the imperialism critiques. No reputable historian is just going to give a 14 week course of constant criticism of imperial rule. We want our students to think critically and to see the complexity in history. However, that also doesn’t mean we would present (in my experience) a course on imperialism as just “both sides did good and bad.” It’s pretty difficult to teach a class on colonial Africa or India or American settlement of the west and just characterize it at “some good and some bad” when the detrimental effects of these episodes are still being felt today.