Hello If you are a first-time visitor, welcome This thread is trending high right now and getting a lot of attention, but it is important to remember those upvotes represent interest in the question itself, and . The mission of /r/AskHistorians is to provide users with , and our are intended to facilitate that purpose. .
Mirsepassi-Ashtiani, Ali. "The crisis of secular politics and the rise of political Islam in Iran." Social Text 38 (1994): 51-84.
Even today many Islamist organizations encourage education and will incorporate science within a religious framework. There are of course certain groups who discourage education, but those would be greatly frowned upon by the vast majority of Islamic intellectuals, regardless of their era.
Thanks so much; this is excellent. I think you really capture the complexity of the situation. I might add that, while the early 20th century changes in women's status were largely top-down, as you point out, there was a second-wave feminist movement that took shape in the early 1960s and that is responsible for some amount of gains in the status of women, especially vis-a-vis healthcare and working conditions. I wouldn't want the activists' labors to be erased here.
Wahabbi and The House of Saud- the highly literalist view and what is commonly considered fundamentalist today only took over what is now Saudi Arabia in the mid 1820s- and was seen as widely unorthodox across many of the Ulama (religious scholars) in the broader Ottoman sphere. Other prominent Muslim Leaders at the time such as Muhammad Ali of Egypt took little attention to Islam, and instead directed their attention to industrialization, to great success I may add. The House of Saud is important, and we'll come back to them later.
A sort of tl;dr is that many Muslim-majority countries experienced a resurgence of religiosity in the late 20th century as a result of economic disappointments, cold war machinations from world powers combined, and a larger global groundswell against western imperialism.
Burak, Guy. The Second Formation of Islamic Law: The Hanafi School in the Early Modern Ottoman Empire. (2015).
As far as speaking for the Arab world, it's really important to recognize that the view of Islam as inseparable from the cultural identities of Muslim majority countries is a relevantly recent phenomena and can be traced back to at the very earliest to roughly the early 1800s- far removed from widespread adoption of Islam in the region. But it becomes more widespread in the 20th century as secularist movements find themselves with few allies as the 20th century progresses.