The car that sealed VW's fame, the Kdf (Kraft durch Freuden) Wagen or Kdf Wagen, was never produced in any significant numbers before or during the war, desipte bonds for its purchase already having been issued to citizens in order to raise money for the Party. It would never have been created in numbers or have become popular at all if it wasn't for the efforts of Major Ivan Hirst of the Royal Engineers who saw the need for a cheap, practical vehicle to help re-mobilise German (West German) citizens. He persuaded the British and American commands to let him rebuild and reopen the the Volkswagen Kdf-Stadt factory. It was the British who began producing the (slightly) updated version of the KdF Wagen called the Type 1. This came to be known as the "Beetle".
The wider historical reevaluation of Germans' coordination and cooperation with the NSDAP regime in the 1970s and 1980s helped to uncover the broad connections between the state and German industrial firms, many of whom actively competed for allocations of slave labor. Lawsuits against German firms in the 1980s and 1990s by survivors of forced labor helped strip away the vestiges of the postwar whitewashing of these firms' responsibilities. This efforts collectively led to a greater public awareness of the connection of German firms to the Third Reich so much so that it has almost become axiomatic that whenever a German company is caught doing something wrong, such as the VW emissions scandal, there is no of that will mention the unsavory association of these firms with the Third Reich.
Thanks for the very informative reply! I had no idea about the other companies involved with assisting Germany, that's really interesting. Do you know if any of those companies publicly addressed that? Or was that swept under the rug? What you said about the collective guilt makes a lot of sense and it seems to me that the American companies involved were much more at fault rather than a German car company supporting what they saw as a justified war effort.