In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
Ah yes. The classic, “this definitely isn’t communism because it turned out bad. It’s obviously capitalism/fascism’s fault”, argument. The USSR was formed by communists, who argued for communist ideologies, and the country was run by members of the communist party. They instituted communist policies but definitely were fascist.
2. The first piece is well cited. A good paper is made up of good citations. Using an ad hominem to attack the piece rather than analyzing the content, while aimlessly appealing to unnamed experts does not do your point any service. Please offer some counter evidence instead.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
I remember when Libertarians were about skepticism of big government (military spending, PATRIOT Act, War on Terror, anti-interventionism, skepticism of the Federal Reserve) and yes, skeptical of wealth inequality itself (insofar as asset prices were propped up by corrupt politicians and federal reserve policies).
Here’s the thing. It was already an unconditional surrender except for one minor detail. Immunity for Hirohito, as I had already mentioned. Which he already got. History just doesn’t line up with this view that it was necessary. There is to show what I said.
Real Communism has never been achieved but it has certainly been attempted by practically half of the planet - let's not forget that socialism was the dominant ideology of the 20th century in Africa, parts of the Middle East and Latin America, SE and South Asia, and of course Eastern Europe.
Edit: looks like I can’t reply to people saying I’m wrong. Either way here’s the reply to people saying that the USSR wasn’t actually communist. Marx argued for short term policies like progressive taxes, bank centralization, and nationalization of some industries in order to transition to the communist society he envisioned. That sounds awfully similar to what Russia’s government did right after the communist revolution. So we have a group of people calling themselves communists, enacting communist ideas, and garnering support through those ideas. What would you call that?
Because Communism is a utopian ideology that cannot be achieved in material terms - it actually shares this with "true Capitalism". Marxism everywhere is rather unpopular around the world for this reason - the vast majority of Marxist-Leninist states or Communist-inspired states were forced upon the populace largely by military takeovers or managed revolutions (Lenin himself said as much). Only Cuba and Vietnam seem to genuinely be Communist by popular sovereignty, and that's mostly because Communism was a better alternative to corrupt colonialism.