The question you’ve posed has a simple answer and a complex answer. The simple answer is that there was no set method of entry into the IRA, although the IRA did in fact have a ‘manual’ (I should point out here that the manual had several versions over the years of operation) that outlined their political and military goals and it was expected that IRA ‘Volunteers’ (the IRA refers to its’ members using this term) would read this document and fully adhere to the principals therein.
How did this work? Did the recruit have to provide references? Did the IRA surreptitiously follow them around to make sure they weren't undercover agents? Could you have a high level person just vouch for you?
Religion remained an ongoing divider between the communities in the years that have followed, with each group forming its own gangs (a harsh word but it seems correct) with the Unionists having the Orange Order and the Nationalists having groups such as the Foresters (along with other various groups who committed murders etc). Unionists often were part of local British Militias to keep the peace/ subjugate the Irish. This long-standing division has been both useful and detrimental in England’s various attempts to subdue and eventually keep peace in Ireland.
It ended up that one of the last places in Ireland to have organised resistance to English rule (under the O’Neills and O’Donnells in the Nine Years War) was extensively planted/settled by those who were unionist. So, unionists were largely gathered in the Northerly counties of Ireland (mainly in Antrim, Down, Derry and Armagh for Ulster) and the nationalists in predominance in the Western and Southerly counties.
The best place to start is to understand that within Ireland there were (roughly speaking) two main political alignments: those in favour of an Independent Ireland (Nationalists and Republicans) and those who favoured remaining within the United Kingdom (Unionists and Loyalists). Whilst not always the case, it is generally accepted that Nationalists are of the Catholic faith and Unionists are Protestant (with many famous exceptions – Wolfe Tone, Henry Joy McCracken and Roger Casement to name a few). Whilst England was originally Catholic, it became Protestant with the English reformation in the 1600s. So now all of the English settlers who came to Ireland were of a different faith to the original inhabitants. The issue was that the English would force the Irish off their land, which they could have held for generations and then place a family, commonly from the Scottish Border areas or from the Highland Clearances, on the newly cleared land. So, to create a picture: You’ve got an Irish family who, up until recently, had been landowners and relatively comfortable, suddenly out on the street and a new settler family, who themselves may have been dispossessed is now the owner of the land. You can see the potential for conflict.