Many aspects of fandom today have their roots in pre-internet Star Trek fandom - specifically, the women who loved Kirk and Spock and wrote/disseminated fanfiction about them.
Given that Star Trek is sort of the Ur-fandom for western media fandom, that many women started in ST fandom and then spread out to others as new shows became available, writing fics there that would influence people newer to fandom, who would go on to other fandoms themselves, etc. it seems more likely to me than not that it's a classic case of a trope moving with the fans, even if not necessarily being signposted as "Hey, remember that thing we did in ST? Why don't we also do it in The Sentinel fics?".
The particular genre/trope of injecting explicitly romantic same sex relationships into popular fictional settings seems to be a more modern invention though, at least to the level of popularity that exists today. The '60s and '70s were an era of loosening of social mores and greater acceptance of open homosexuality. That's reflected not only in the rise of slash fiction in the '70s but also in a new wave of gay or queer literature around the same time (such as Baldwin's "Another Country" from 1962, Vidal's "Myra Breckenridge" in 1968, Pynchon's "Gravity's Rainbow" in 1973, and "Kiss of the Spider Woman" by Puig in 1978) and the rise of "yaoi" (depictions of "boy love" romance in manga for women) in Japan, also in the '70s.
Not to diss fanfiction. It's valid, it's fun to read and write, and it has its place. I write it myself. But allegories to other stories aren't fanfiction. The Aeneid is really not the same as my fixit fic where Black Widow doesn't die.
The general cons that focused on hard science fiction and more literary works were extremely male spaces, but once cons started focusing on specific mainstream media properties, it became clear that women were just as into fandom as men - and while many fannish spaces were still quite hostile to women, rooms and communities centered around producing fannish media (fanfic and fanart) tended to skew female. And this fic and art could be very romantic and/or sexual. Star Trek fandom invented the "Mary Sue" (a super-talented original female character), the self-insert (called a "lay story", where an original female character, typically considered a Mary Sue, sleeps with one of the major canon characters), and slash (so called because the romantic pairing of Kirk and Spock was indicated with a / between their names, now a very common way of indicating a romantic pairing. Kirk/Spock as a specific pairing was often referred to by fans and detractors as "the premise").