1. Contact residential life staff. Inform them that your parents wormed their way into your dorm room, damaged your belongings, and that they are not welcome. Ask for help in keeping them away from you. Let the staff know you'll be filing a police report against your parents, and ask if they'll need a copy. Do not place blame on reslife. They need to be allies of yours.
In addition to the advice from every one else with regards to continuing at college, you might consider contacting the police department with respect to the police officers allowing your parents into your bf's apartment and enabling your parents to remove you and your property from the premises.
1. Many are staffed and operated with license-eligible, masters-level or higher therapists, meaning people who have finished their degrees and are just as educated and capable as outside therapists. However, in University centers, students are usually offered a certain number of free sessions per term as part of their tuition. A university might offer something like 3-5 sessions per semester, and if a student wants to see that particular therapist more than that, they might pay a cash fee or, in rarer cases, accept the school-provided health insurance. (The intricacies of why a university's mental health services would not accept the University's own insurance, or any insurance, is far too outside the scope of practice here, but I'll just say: it's one of the many reasons single payer healthcare is a necessity.) As a result, most of the therapists there may see students for shorter periods of time, but are absolutely capable of seeing a student longer. Worth noting, too, that guidance counselors are also, generally, fully trained therapists as well, but the scope of their job will be different. In many states, "counselor" is a protected term, meaning that only people who are license eligible and under the supervision of the state are able to practice, so generally, anyone with "counselor" in their title has to have specific training. The major exception to this is "pastoral counseling," which is generally provided by clergy members, but that's not universal, and honestly, I've written too much already.
2. Contact your school's student retention staff, if you have them, or the dean of students. Let them know the same thing that you posted here. Ask if they can help you.