I love this question, hopefully no one has previously covered this in better detail than I can. I’ll try to source as much of what I’m talking about as possible – I work specifically with the East German process of denazification, and there are aspects of this which I’d need to dig for a bit to find the exact source. In short, though, I’d recommend Divided Memory: The Nazi Past in the Two Germanys by Jeffrey Herf and “Getting History Right” by Mark A. Wolfgram as two books which really cover every aspect of this question. Memorializing the Holocaust by Janet Jacobs is also a great look at the specifically gendered components of the memorialization process, which you didn’t ask about, but I think is worth mentioning.
Wolf, René. 2010. The undivided sky: the Holocaust on East and West German radio in the 1960s. Houndmills, Basingstoke, Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan.
However afterwards, Israel turned firmly towards the West (I believe early on, their biggest ally was France), which Stalin and many other Communist leaders took both as a personal insult and betrayal, and the proof that the Jews could never be trusted and were too Western / capitalist / whatever.
1. Jeffrey Herf, Divided Memory: The Nazi Past in the Two Germanys (Cumberland, UNITED STATES: Harvard University Press, 1997), 14.
To make a long history short, the place of the Holocaust in German national memories diverged ever further between the 50s and reunification. As mentioned above, the GDR would not officially commemorate Kristallnacht until 1988, while Holocaust memory occupied more and more space in FRD memory discourses from 1960 onward. To quote Herf, “since the 1960s, discussion of the Nazi past did expand in West German politics and society, and the relationship between democracy and memory in the Adenauer era was challenged and reversed.”^13 There were, and are, of course a myriad of other problems of memory in Germany, particularly the experiences of Sinti/Roma victims, as well as LGBT persecution under Nazi rule (which in many ways continued under the FRD). But those are topics for a different question.
That is why a lot of the post-war rhetoric of the Social Democrat Party may seem inconsistent with the later SPD, the party that led the rapprochement with the East, and whose social-liberal government under Willy Brandt after 1969 is in many ways associated with Vergangenheitsbewältigung and reconciliation -- which in turn was then blasted by the conservatives as "selling out" Germany. Brandt, famous for kneeling in front of the Warsaw Ghetto memorial -- he who had to flee the Nazis and lived in exile during WWII and who was in no way personally responsible for the Nazi regime's policies -- in turn became the face of a "new", "good" Germany, that truly faced her past.
8. As a useful counterpoint to the role of anti-fascism in East German film, I can’t help but note that Heimatfilme (lit. “homelandfilms”) were the main cinematic output of 1950s Germany. These weren’t state sponsored, of course, but it is interesting to note that these films were centered upon an idealist vision of (south) German culture, a far cry from the Trümmerfilme and Gegenswartsfilme of the East.