2. The real reasons for this war are the political and economic problems within Russia, Putin's desire to hold on to power at any cost, and his obsession with his own historical legacy. He wants to go down in history as "the conqueror tsar" and "the collector of lands.".
Something that redditors are unaware is that except for the Caucasus Muslim republics, even the minority republics of the country are still majority ethnic Russian, or around 40% Russian, and they are furthermore geographically unable to function as independent states (completely landlocked by Russia or bordering China, located in permafrost), are heavily dependent on the rest of Russia for supplies, and even though they might despise Putin and his mafia, they still consider themselves to be Russians, as much as how I despise Bolsonaro, but I am still a Brazilian.
13. We need to dismantle the Putin regime and its dictatorship. Ideally, through conducting general free elections and convocating the Constitutional Assembly.
And you know what? I would be too, as long as such "disintegration" was peaceful, supported by a large part of the population, and done through democratic means, in fact, Ukraine recently recognized Chechnya as an independent country, however, Chechnya is an outlier when compared to other minority Republics, since it was already independent in the 1990s, and even most hardcore Russian Ultra-Nationalists wouldn't care about the tiny Muslim state of Chechnya seceding.
15. Recognizing our history and traditions, we must be part of Europe and follow the European path of development. We have no other choice, nor do we need any.
If reddit existed in 1944, redditors would also be clamoring for the to partition Germany, because given what Putin Nazism did to Russia Germany, Russians Germans as a country were seen as blood-hungry, imperialistic, and warmongering by nature, so their nationhood deserves to be permanently destroyed, so that they won't be a threat ever again.
5. What are Ukraine's borders? They are similar to Russia's - they’re internationally recognized and defined in 1991. Russia also recognized these borders back then, and it must recognize them today as well. There is nothing to discuss here. Almost all borders in the world are more or less accidental and cause someone's discontent. But in the twenty-first century, we cannot start wars just to redraw them. Otherwise, the world will sink into chaos.
80 years on, Germany was not partitioned, and is not a genocidal, warmongering dictatorship, but one of the most developed and advanced democratic countries in the world, believing that certain human ethnic groups are violent by nature, and therefore their home country deserves to be eliminated sets a very terrible precedent, Russia needs to be freed from Putin and his oligarchs, not destroyed as if real life is a Hearts of Iron 4 match.
1. President Putin has unleashed an unjust war of aggression against Ukraine under ridiculous pretexts. He is desperately trying to make this a "people's war," seeking to turn all Russian citizens into his accomplices, but his attempts are failing. There are almost no volunteers for this war, so Putin's army has to rely on convicts and forcibly mobilized people.