Meanwhile, their sisters received an education that aligned to the notion of "Republican Motherhood." She learned logic and rhetoric, not because it was important for her future, but for the sons she would inevitably raise up to be good citizens. This, especially in the Northern states, resulted in a system where the children of wealthy men rarely came in contact with the sons of merchants, farmers, and tradesmen. (White and Black children were deliberately and explicitly kept apart. In most Southern states, enslaved people who attended school or were caught with reading materials were beaten or whipped. Free Black children typically attended segregated schools.).
Considering this is the law, is it really surprising then that students might receive a very biased or inaccurate account of certain aspects of American history (for example, the history of labor movements, communism, and anarchism in the 19th and 20th centuries)?
No. Law Latin was the main last vestige of useful Latin in English, and it was ruled in the 1730s that attorney's bills and legal proceedings should be written in English instead, though some scholarly legal texts were still being published in Latin; French was becoming the modern lingua franca at this time, so international treaties, diplomatic business, and scientific papers to be shared with the rest of Europe would be written in that language instead. If you needed to see documents from the seventeenth century and earlier then yes, you would need a command of Latin, but it should be remembered that the majority of young men learning Latin and Greek in school/university during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries were training to be gentlemen, and wealthy ones at that. These languages were prestigious in part because they weren't going to be practically useful to most of the people learning them - they could be used to read Classical texts and to make and understand allusions to them, or to make wordplay in poetry, activities that could display your prestige, but if you needed a seventeenth-century will read (for some reason), you'd go to a lawyer.
Oh, for sure. And it was. The prevailing theory of knowledge was that learning things that smart men knew made one smart. So, if a father wanted his son to be smart, he'd send him to a place or hire a tutor that specialized in teaching the things that smart men knew. This knowledge got even more specific in terms of what variety of smart. That is, if a father intended for his son to go to Harvard, he'd hire a tutor who knew the particular Greek and Latin texts Harvard required for their entrance exams. Yale had slightly different Greek and Latin texts. ().