As far as the UK goes, it is taught at university level as good practice in essay writing and discussions. I'll give some reasons people have told me for this:
The implications of "nybyggare" in Swedish is basically "person who left their original home to convert a plot of woodsland someplace else to a farmstead", generally in the sense pertaining to (western) European colonisation of the Americas, I've never seen or heard any mentions of it relating to Africa or Asia. The people of the Mayflower and the Swedes who emigrated to the US during the 1800s would be considered "nybyggare", it doesn't carry the negative association that "kolonisatör" (coloniser) does, as to the reason to why that is, I think there is a association that a "nybyggare" had personal reasons more linked to survival and attaining a happy life in the Americas (with the backdrop of turmoil in Sweden especially during the 1800s) rather the materialistic and immoral justifications of the "kolonisatör" in carving up Africa for their own racist purposes.
Thank you for running through this! It's interesting and from the sounds of it I'd see nybygarre more as an American Dream style immigrant than the English term coloniser. Not to say you can't be both.
Weren't a lot of colonizers more or less forced to move to the colonies, whether through outright kidnapping and impressment, conviction of trivial crimes, to repay debts, as indentured servants, as political exiles like the Russians sent to Siberia, or generally for economic opportunity in dire times like the Irish potato famine? Lots of colonizers don't seem to have had much choice in whether to take part, thus being on the "low-agency" side of the spectrum. Maybe they count as victims of the system of colonization, since they might have preferred to stay in Britain or wherever. Are they still considered colonizers?
Are the people who stayed home but benefited from colonization considered colonizers? I assume people whose ancestors stayed in Britain still count. What about, say, the Irish or Finnish, who may have benefitted geographically and economically from being close to colonial powers, despite not being directly or voluntarily involved? If they traded with colonizers, that makes them complicit, right? What about Black people in the USA who choose to live on colonized land instead of returning it to the Native Americans; are they colonizers? I guess you could say the entire world today benefits from some scientific and cultural advances made largely by colonizers, such as electricity and antibiotics; does that make the world complicit? I mean, if people who didn't have a choice in colonization, or didn't take part in it at all, but did benefit from it, are still colonizers, then maybe almost anyone today counts?
So the answer is "even if you were born in the colony, your ancestors have been here for centuries, and the conquered group is a small minority now, you are still a colonist"? What are the implications of that, according to current academic thought? I've heard stuff like "all White people should go back to Europe" from people of Native American ancestry, so I'd say, rather than being pointless, the stakes on this topic are rather high.