To start, it is worth putting one thing right: Argentina is much, much richer today as in 1890. Their RGDP/capita in 1890 is $4,245 (2011 $GK) and in 2016 it was $18,875. So, real income per person is about 4.5 times higher today than it was then. Of course, as jumped-up plains apes (as Brad DeLong says) we are obsessive about relative wealth, so we remember the 1890s as a time when Argentina was rich, and today we think of Argentines as poor (though they are still well, well above the global average GDP/cap!) But the actual living standards of modern Argentines, after 130 years of "failure" is vastly higher than it was back then.
Energy. Having cheap energy is great if you can export it (for instance oil or electricity) and it also stimulates domestic industries because it makes your costs lower. The world is going through an energy transition which presents an opportunity for forward thinking countries - can they build more green power? Could this be an export? If its low enough cost, could it change which industries are competitive for that country?
Unfortunately, Argentina had neither. Workers were fairly well paid, by international standards. Strong and politically-involved unions could bargain hard for wage increases - this is a large part of what Peron, for better or for worse, did. Export industries and domestic service firms competed for workers, which pushed wages upwards. The descamisados were plenty poor by Argentine standards, but not by the standards of East Asian rice farmers. If wages are kept up not by high productivity, but by strong labour bargaining power, that weighs against export competitiveness.
Low wages are not necessary to industrialise, though, if productivity is high enough. Unit labour costs can still be low if output per worker is spectacular. This is largely the story of US industrialisation, so why not Argentina? That's a harder question to answer.
Argentina and the Empire of Brazil had signed a Treaty of Peace, Friendship, Commerce and Navigation on March 7 1856, but the commercial relationship only truly evolved decades later, when Brazil was already a Republic, with the signing of the Treaty of October 6 1898, when the borders between the two countries were finally properly defined, allowing for the establishment of proper commerce and trade agreements.