In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
I salute you. Even though English is not my first language although I am an everyday user of it, allow me to impart some praise the best I can at your way.
Unlikely. Twitter has been failing to pay rent on it's offices. I just saw an article this past week about how all the employees got walked out in Singapore because they were so behind on rent.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
The conversation was explicitly about violence. For the command to make any sense at all, it has to read "Stand Back" (from the violence you are currently committing) and "Stand By" (until whatever conditional occurs to continue the violence you are currently suspending at my request).
Everyone else found a new platform. Twitter's APIs went down, so people who were using 3rd party stuff (many content creators) had to drop the platform. Nobody got time to go to every website they post content on.
>In the context of being asked if he would condemn white supremacists and militias responsible for violence at political protests, and being offered the example of the "Proud Boys," a President publicly tells a private Militia to standby/get ready, what is he having them get ready for?
Furthermore, Trump later claimed to not even know who the Proud Boys were when he answered that question, which, if true, means that he only knew they were a Right-Wing militia accused of violence at political protests, because that's what the question characterized them as.
When the President of the United States was asked to denounce a right-wing militia group accused of ONGOING violence at protests in American cities, he Addressed them directly and said "Proud Boys, stand back and stand by" before going on to denounce OTHER groups with harsher language that he felt the country "needed to do something about.".