Now that's an arresting passage. An ancient author - albeit one who wrote a half-millennium after Plato's death - stating outright that Plato derived one of his most important doctrines from India. But the fact that an ancient author claims something does not, of course, make that thing true, and very few classicists think that Plato derived any of his core doctrines from non-Greek sources. Ancient claims to the contrary reflect an impulse as old as Greco-Roman civilization: to see the ancient cultures of the east as a source of deep, if sometimes dangerous, wisdom.
These influences were deep and important; but later Greek authors often ascribed even completely Greek innovations in philosophy or politics to the east, seeking to lend a patina of eastern authority to new ideas. Great innovators like Solon or Plato are thus often said to have spent time in Egypt, and to have learned the secrets of the Egyptian priests. This is not to say that Greek authors unambiguously admired Egypt and the Near East; but they recognized the deep antiquity of eastern civilizations, and sought to come to terms with that antiquity through narratives of cultural borrowing and exchange.
That makes sense. Personally my view is that the comparison of philosophical and religious texts in themselves is a relatively futile endeavour absent direct textual evidence of exchange, simply because people who spend time thinking about things often come up with similar ideas. Similarly, authors can be directly influenced by traditions without necessarily adopting their core tenets (so real influence can seem "superficial").
It's a gorgeous book, you'll love to read it. It's actually enjoyable and just beautiful (you'll breeze through it). What I didn't like about it is that I don't agree with his definition of shamanism. For him, shamanism is a typology, whereas for me I prefer to think of it as a genealogy. Shamanism is a specific tradition whereas he thinks of it as a specific type of practice shared by many traditions. It's literally an academic quibble. It's not the most in-depth book, but have I mentioned it's beautiful?
Suspiciousness of the foreign and even of novelty itself does not really preclude innovation or drawing heavily on non-native influences, but it certainly makes it harder to detect. I would point to a range of intellectual trends in e.g. 19th and 20th century Islamic and Chinese modernism as examples of this, where industrial western notions of "democracy", "rule of law", etc were not wholesale adopted so much as reinterpreted in terms of, and "rediscovered" within traditional, native sources.
Hi, great response. I wanted to ask for some more information about this excerpt of your response. Was this assumption solely made for Plato, and, if so, why? (Or, e.g., was it more of a general assumption made for well-known philosophers?) I ask because, based on what you say (bolded word), it sounds like the Greeks and Romans didn't have many sources, even in their time, concerning his travels.