The difference between a revolt and a revolution is success. If the American revolution had failed, it would be referred to as something along the order of the "Colonial Revolt of the late Eighteenth century.".
It is erroneous to imply that brutal slavery would have continued only as the result of a Confederate victory, or to discount the fact that slavery in the Confederacy would eventually become obsolete thereby bringing about the same societal pressures to end the institution just as it did in the North.
Thank. Yeah, things are named what they’re named (although I do pity the poor French kings that got fat, bald etc as appellations!).
Blacks continued living under the brutality of slavery after the Civil War given the fact that Delaware was the last state in the Union to be forced to give up slavery, along with those slaves still being held in New Jersey and other areas outside of the Confederacy until the ratification of the 13th Amendment in December 1865, eight months after the war was over.
Oh I agree! I'm just pointing out from a modern historical perspective, historians actually do care about semantics. However, back then since the North won, they had moral, militaristic, and civil reasons why they called it a Civil War over a Revolution.
Lastly, throughout the entire war the North always viewed the South in terms of states in rebellion, rather than a separate entity, whereas in Britain the colonies were viewed as extensions. Furthermore, there are ethical reasons. It seemed and still is very ethically irresponsible to refer to pro-slave insurrectionists as somehow being... "revolutionaries" because it affords them prestige, the opportunity to be remembered as anything but the traitors that they were. So the North also had those reasons as well.
If the Southern insurrection had succeeded, it would have been referred to with terms that described its finality/success: the Southern War of Independence or something along that line, and millions of African Americans would have continued to live under the brutality of slavery. Edit: although the contrary is not implied by the statement provided, of course all sorts of brutality toward African Americans continued after the war.