Considering narcotics history in warfare I wouldn't be surprised if it's more than alcohol, alcohol can be used for stuff like this, but it's much less reliably effective than say amphetamines which is what the nazis used.
Nope. The vast majority of those losses are from artillery. Most soldiers who die in this war are miles away from the nearest enemy rifle.
Yes absolutely. It’s just not a choice for many of the Russian soldiers. If they had their choice they would be at home instead of fighting an unjust war.
'Communism (from Latin communis, 'common, universal') is a far-left sociopolitical, philosophical, and economic ideology and current within the socialist movement whose goal is the establishment of a communist society, a socioeconomic order centered around common ownership of the means of production, distribution, and exchange which allocates products to everyone in the society. Communist society also involves the absence of private property, social classes, money, and the state.'.
Many of that fascist dictatorship's victims are the young men pressed into service--often drawn from Russia's colonial second classes, conscientious objecters, prisoners and press-ganged Ukrainian citizens.
'noun. Britannica Dictionary definition of FASCISM. [noncount] 1. or Fascism : a way of organizing a society in which a government ruled by a dictator controls the lives of the people and in which people are not allowed to disagree with the government.'.
The Soviet Union is not a particularly good example of theoretical communism being implemented, since the workers ownership of the means of production was, in practice, rather limited. However, they did have a robust social safety net, and the workers did retain at least nominal voting share in the operation of their factories, corporations and government. It's fair to say that the USSR was one of the most communist-ick governments in history, even if it was an internally inconsistent, hypocritical husk of what it claimed to be doing.