Ok, buckle up because this is going to be long one albeit a month later ain't so sure. But first I need to address on why the question is important:
I have heard of problems between the Refugees and the Ladinos, the Jewish community was seen as competition to the Greek refugee merchants, this led into the creation of the anti semetic/fascist EEE 🤮 whose members were mostly of refugee origin, this organisation had an anti left wing character as the lower class Jews of Thessaloniki were big on socialism (insert federacion quote from panelinies history textbook).
2. The tensions between the refugees and the Jews also occurred due to job/market competition. Both were predominantly poor demographics that aimed at the same jobs, from port workers to domestic servants. When unemployment increased after the Great Depression, tensions escalated accordingly.
Thank you so much! As always the story is much more layered than I expected. And stark. I didn't realize that the new Greek state had opted for a highly centralized administration. Somehow I imagined, until the ethnic cleansing/population exchanges, Thessaloniki and other cities plied along as they always had with different tax collectors.
1. The reconstruction following the 1917 didn't target the Jews specifically, but it was still conducted in an intentionally unfair manner. The goal was to reward rich investors that cooperated with Venizelos, at the expense of the small owners. Poor Jews suffered the most, because they coincidentally happened to be the group most affected by the accidental fire, but that still lead to an alienation between them and the Venizelists.
3. Communists, around 20%, were popular with the poorer masses and were in open conflict with the other two groups. Especially during elections, it was not unknown of violent clashed between Zionists and Communists.
3. Finally, the local press played a major role in abetting the fascist paramilitaries and in provoking the pogrom. The main culprit was the newspaper Macedonia, of an explicitly Venizelist orientation, whose editor openly endorsed Antisemitism, xenophobia, conspiracy theories and violence. He also collaborated with the occupation authorities. Macedonia still exists today and is in fact the most important newspaper in northern Greece. To my knowledge, the newspaper has still failed to acknowledge and apologise for its involvement in the pogrom.