For years I offered to make arrangements ahead of time for him to safely transition to permanently living in Denmark when his care became too much for her. This would have required completing the proper paperwork to re-establish his residency, getting a waiver for him to live full time in the house that’s only zoned for summertime use, setting up the dementia case worker with social services, establishing him with a new doctor and transferring the proper medical records and prescription info, getting Danish POA or guardianship before travel to ensure his finances were in order. There was a mountain of things that needed to be done prior to him boarding a plane. I have always agreed with his wishes to return for years because the system and quality of care over there is truly superior, and I’m glad he has access to it, but the way she did it was horribly dangerous and abusive. It would be like letting a child drive a car because they wanted to and technically you’re not their parent so knock yourself out! I begged her to wait and just give me a couple months to set all this up so we could transition him safely, and because she’s a fucking delusional control freak instead she chose isolation and abandonment, because it allows her to maintain control without intervention.
Since it’s apple, he has an iCloud account. If you have a MacBook, you can log into messages with his iCloud account. All text messages come through now, not just iMessages.
He was and still is self directing in the eyes of the US systems, but it would be easy to show that based on his memory test scores here and in Denmark that he was well beyond the point of reasonably caring for himself, and he was only doing so because the girlfriend had given his doctors the impression that she provided care as his “supportive spouse or partner”, and would arrange care for his travel. His neurologist specifically told her that if he was to travel he should have help upon arrival and he had none. They also noted in his records that on his last few trips alone he had lost 20+ lbs, and has trouble maintaining his treatment plans. He scored a 67 (1st percentile) on his most recent complete RBAN test here in the US last year and the average healthy person scores 100+, and a 15/30 on his MMSE in Denmark which is an internationally recognized test. 13 is considered SEVERE dementia, and it’s generally noted that patients decline 2-4 points per year so there’s no way this developed overnight.