My daughter is one of these, although in the US. We don't know if it was COVID or another virus that did it: ME/CFS, the condition that a lot of long COVID is included in, can be caused by like 12 viruses along with a host of other things.
Interesting. So if that’s the same across all demographics then potentially we’re looking at about 10,000 kids suffering from a preventable long covid?
Exactly. It’s been almost three years for me and I am bedbound now. I was an athlete before. It’s hell on earth and it’s not like another illness. My organs are shutting down. Long Covid is slow death.
What's more likely -- that a wide variety of bacterial and viral infections, through obscure and unidentified physiological pathways, all just happen to result in the same set of symptoms that are known to be strongly associated with anxiety disorders (brain fog, fatigue, post-exertional malaise) in the same demographic groups that have the highest incidence of anxiety disorders and happen to respond best to treatment via antidepressants and anxiolytics, or that lots of people resist a mental health diagnosis out of stigma surrounding psychiatric illnesses?
All the main ones on this great page by the CDC. We're very fortunate she does not experience pain, can still eat well, attend brief afternoon appointments as necessary, and be lightly active around the house (like walking, showering, watching a movie on a good day: she's still too ill to even play video games). Many ME/CFS /long COVID kids and adults are far worse. Although many more are milder and can still attend school or work part-time.
>The eye-popping range of issues linked to long Covid raises questions about whether all are ascribable to viral infection, particularly since two of the most widely reported symptoms—fatigue and brain fog—are also commonly associated with stress, depression, anxiety, and functional disorders like FND. Since 2019, rates of people reportedly experiencing depression and anxiety have quadrupled, according to some estimates; loneliness and isolation spiked as well. One recent study found all of these things to be highly correlated with long Covid. Cell-level and hormonal findings along the lines of those in the Putrino and Iwasaki study have also been observed in chronic pain, post-traumatic stress disorder, and depression, but often don’t seem to correlate with symptoms, and it’s unclear what any of it means clinically, or whether there’s any causal relationship. Finally, an NIH-sponsored longitudinal study on long Covid—the most thorough and detailed analysis of the condition yet produced—found no tissue damage in long Covid patients, no evidence of viral persistence, and no abnormalities in any organ function relative to controls. “We are finding little to no abnormalities,” lead author Dr. Michael Sneller told NPR before the study’s publication. “Echocardiogram, pulmonary function tests, X-rays, brain MRIs. You name it. Laboratory markers of organ dysfunction. We’re not seeing any of that … and precious little evidence of immune activation.… I’m running out of tests to do, basically.” One association his final paper did find, however, was an association between long Covid and anxiety disorder.