“Not only do we not respect these women and broadcast oppression daily, but we feel the need to overtly declare it for those who may doubt it abroad!”.
They're artificially restricting them. Not being an asshole on purpose to half the population costs nothing. It's not that they're not "making it a priority", it's that they decided to ban it for half the population. Which is what makes them idiots and assholes.
When people say religion they mainly talk about the abrahamic religions ( less the jewish one because its taboo), and this argument also works against you because i go back to evolution, that religion is as needed for societies to function no matter how removed they are as it is for you to need food and breath to function as a human being, way smarter and determined people tried to provide alternatives and how many did they work without an underlying infrastructure built by the same religion they hate, its the same the feminists that cry about the patriarchy while refusing to acknowledge (nonetheless live in ) a matriachal society.
Not what I said. There are certainly issues in other countries as well, But Afghanistan is in a whole other universe. Specifically on the issue of education, Afghanistan stands alone.
But most of this bla bla isn't important, in all this philosophical back and forth, you haven't once named a better alternative, talking shit is easy, coming up with a sustainable system that can unite humanity, bring the best of us better than the thousands of years system and as flawed as it is has resulted in the best success that is western civilization, if you think pre bronze age primal humans (that if i go along with your non answer bullshit and didn't have religion because of lack of evidence and logic from your part) had better solution than what we have today, than i have an imaginary bridge to sell you.
The answer given was "Islam". My argument was that on the issue of education, that answer is wrong. Hope that clarifies my point.
If you were a "real" archeologists worth his salt, you would know that humans have behavioural pattern in how we form our societies, like the beginning is mostly the same with few variation because our basic biological needs and behaviour haven't changed much, though how the societies evolved is something else entirely....how ever one concept remained the same and that is the metaphysical and religion ( despite science best efforts), there is no logical pattern that what came before were any different in terms of behaviour and biological needs that govern our actions, so there is no evidence that they would've evolved differently.
Especially when you consider that religion overrides even our primal biological needs.....like everyone of them with the concept of sacrifice for a higher power with no evidence of its existence, yet it applies to most societies recorded to humanity, which should be scientifically and from evolutionary standpoint impossible.