That's rather a good question, especially as the term seems to appears regularily in question about Barbarian "tribes", in opposition to Greeks or Romans.
Of course, contact with Rome had certainly a great influence in Barbarian self-identity, not just materially but as well politically, and by the IIIrd century onward, Barbarians would refer to themselves trough a more broad identity, rather than tribal in this sense, as found in Pannonia.
In the case that interest us, lasting contact between Barbarians and "Primary state"-like cultures such as classical Greeks and Romans, notably trough trade and access of prestigious goods (for instance, wine for Gauls) and the material cultural influence it represents would impact on local self-identity (either embracing the changes as the aristocratisation of Gaulish societies in the IInd to Ist centuries BCE, either refusing it as in Ist century AD Bavaria) and its political frames : the switch over a "Sicambri" identity to a broader "Frankish" one in the IIIrd to IVth centuries being due to the success of the Frankish coalition and its centrality in relation between tribes and Romans.
Great answer. Perhaps one of the most muddying aspects of accepting the Graeco-Roman term "tribe" as a concrete expression of self-identity is that we don't really know on which basis these people defined their group identity, as you pointed out.
So I guess all in all, the word "tribe" is a terrible catch-all used to group any sort of communal identity in temperate Europe at this time (as it would later be used in Africa and the Americas centuries later) regardless of how those groups actually articulated or formed those identities. I suppose it would be like an academic writer today grouping together North Korea, fans of the Green Bay Packers and Wall Street bankers as "nations" just because they're all collective identities whose underlying formation is incomprehensible to them as an academic (or Graeco-Roman ethnologist...).
1 La Celtique Méditerranéenne. Habitats et sociétés en Languedoc et en Provence VIIIè-IIè siècles avant J.-C.; Dominique Garcia; 2014.
I'm not sure that there IS a single work or series of works that tackle the misapplication of the word 'tribe' and our mis-understanding of various kinds of social groupings that exist outside our limited understanding of our own cultural and social history, but there are a LOT of good books on Roman history that take on the idea of tribes in this way or that and sort of poke holes in our understanding of what makes a tribe a tribe and why we think what we do when we hear a group of people describe as a tribe. Peter Heather has several good books - Empires and Barbarians, The Fall of the Roman Empire - that do this, and Guy Halsall has some. The Ruin of the Roman Empire by James O'Donnell is a bit outside mainstream thinking about the fall of Rome, but a lot of his arguments are compelling, even if I think his conclusions are a bit of a stretch, and he has a good analysis of 'tribe.'.
Etymological analysis of ethnonyms is quite helpful in this regard as we can at least get a glimpse into the core of "tribal" self-identity; early Irish population groups for instance seem to have been formed solely around cult identity (a people united by their devotion to a primary deity or cult figure) with names like the Osraige, the Bibraige and Artraige ("people of the ox/beaver/bear" respectively) before the development of a strictly hierarchical society dominated by a warrior aristocracy, which in turn gave rise to group identities based on one's supposed lineage to an ancestral figure with famous groups like the Ui Niaill and Ui Briain.
It's really unclear for early Germans. but what Caesar describe as the pagi of Ariovistos' confederation might be closer to be defined tribally : while Helvetii gather 5 pagi, Ariovist can count on more than one hundred. It's probably not due to an "ethnic" difference between Gauls and Germans (Germans of this period being often Celts, Celticized or partly made up of Celtic or Celticized peoples) than an institutional difference, Gaulish petty-states having possibly a separate and longer tradition of political build-up.
The first thing that must be stressed is that the name doesn't come from ancient sources : while Greeks or Romans can mention Barbarian peoples with different names, sometimes making a point to differenciate social frames (as with Caesar about Gauls), when they have to name peoples in a broad sense, they often resort to "natio" or "ethnè". Thing, is, these words can be used to name a small people or an entire "race" such as Germans or Gauls; both being defined by common ancestry, the size varying a lot; and without any real implication on the social sophistication : Aedui with their sophisticated state and Veneti living on the fringes of the known world could both be labelled as such.
The usual meaning of tribe, in the modern sense, owes a lot to an extremely Eurocentric ethnology, issued from the Age of Discoveries and Colonial era; contacted peoples being considered as closer to barbarity than Europeans, as were Barbarian peoples to Romans. Using the word tribe, passed trough medieval Latin to call scattered Hebrew peoples in the Bible, it gave us the obnoxious "tribe".I won't dwell too much into a question that would probably, given its complexity and nature, have a better place and answer in r/AskAnthropology about a contemporary understanding of the concept, especially on an evolutionary model (although I find the rough state model proposed by Colin Renfrew interesting with an understanding of tribes as a relatively acephalic ensemble, Maurice Goudelier and Alain Testart being good reads on the general question too).
For ancient sources, tribal simply doesn't have a relation to a degree of social sophistication, it is rather a matter of personal identity, shared with a small group and maybe less defined by blood than by assembly (or, rather, jointly with assembly), which would be made clear by the "adoption" of provincials citizens into Rome tribes.
"Tribal" societies (although the term could rather cover what Colin Renfrew or Richard Hodges would consider as chiefdoms) would be defined by a fluid indentity based on territory, genealogical relations, and political boundaries with a unstable and relatively weak leadership. Complex societies would provide with the means of prestige display, wealth as capital meaning possible hoarding and social investment, and possible increase of capacities of mobilisation and creation of an oligarchic elite and "Early State Module".