Well, you probably won't find any sources about those earliest kings because they're semi-legendary and only known from the inscriptions of their descendants. The first record of a Persian royal genealogy comes from the Cyrus Cylinder, placed in a building foundation after Cyrus the Great conquered Babylon:
The fact that both Cyrus I and Cyrus the Great only trace their lineage to Teispes, while Darius goes back a generation further to add Achaemenes has made scholars suspicious for at least the last century. There are all sorts of theories that try to explain it, but many now suspect that Darius was not even as closely related to Cyrus as he claimed. The theory is that Darius grafted his own ancestor, who provided his own family name, on top of Cyrus's family tree. Cyrus the Great was thus possibly not an Achaemenid at all, but a Teispid. u/lcnielsen goes into further detail in .
The Elamite language is far from as well understood as Akkadian or Old Persian since there are no known closely related languages to compare it to (whereas you can grasp a lot of Old Persian with a decent knowledge of Sanskrit, for example), but it is not "undeciphered" and there are many translated Elamite tablets.
I do hate how over exaggerated that is. We've been chipping away at Elamite for about 150 years, and the Persian royal inscriptions are written in 3 languages, Elamite included, so they can serve in the same role that the Rosetta Stone played for understanding Egyptian hieroglyphs. Overall, we've successfully deciphered most Late and Middle Elamite language. It's more difficult because it's a language isolate, so we don't have many cognate words to work with, and there are multiple dialects. That said, we're able to read most simple documents like catalogs and receipts, or formulaic things like royal inscriptions. It's the longer and more complicated things scholars struggle with now. We're not sure we recognize all of the tenses and verb forms yet, but that usually doesn't hamper translation in most common documents.