Even if you banned beef based diets or all meat diets it would still only delay the inevitable it would not solve the problem of too many people and not enough land because it would not be a 1:1 swap, get rid of cows and put down vegetables and fruit…except grazing country is generally not viable for growing fruit and vegetables without intensively fertilizing the soil and bringing in loads of fresh water for irrigation.
It's clear if you have a brain. I write "even destroying the world" and then after their children and children's children are supposed to be able to do the same ... after the world has been destroyed. woosh.
So don’t @ me with your “theories” which are not possible in reality because you can’t tell the difference between reality and hopeful optimism that somehow in the next 36 years there is going to be some kind of massive change in the mindset of the most powerful and wealthy while we are currently with our 8 billion population in the midst of the 6th great extinction with just 8 billion…and you imagine we will somehow be able to cope with 11?
They literally got funds from the Amazon Fund. But if I remember correctly Bolsonaro wouldn't take lecturing from other countries (I believe Norway primarily) on how to handle the Amazon situation. It got cancelled but is now making a resurgence since Lula took office.
Ahh a romantic who looks at a world which is currently in the six great extinction with 96% of all mammalian life on earth consisting of humans and their food, a world which can contain a virus because of human greed and stupidity and says “yeah nah everything will be fine we got this” if only we “build smartly” problem is we don’t have time or the smarts because 99% of the population are barely literate dumbasses who would rather fight over toilet paper than do the right thing.
Why are you getting downvoted? Consumption of animal products is one of the biggest contributors to deforestation. These people cry about it until they learn that their consumption of animal products causes this. Virtue signallers.
I live in reality and reality is that our holding capacity at our current and future rate of consumption will require massive global changes and we can barely get people to take a vaccine and stay at home without causing toilet paper shortages and you think we can cope with 11 billion.