I think the first thing to keep in mind is that we have quite little evidence of Polynesians in America.
Some other strands of evidence has been pursued, such as Polynesian chicken bones in Chile, and Polynesian cultural influence on Native American ships, but these have less backing.
Perhaps more surprising is that we have pretty clear evidence of Amerindians in Polynesia - this is a surprise to many researchers, as the assumption for years had been that Polynesians would have reached South America. They key evidence of this is genetic study made last year, that showed that Polynesians on several islands carried DNA that could be traced to a specific people on the Pacific coast of Colombia.
Conversely, no genetic evidence of Polynesians in Native Americans exist, and since the Native DNA was only from a limited group and region, the contact itself is likely quite limited.
Thanks! That response doesn't go into any of the specifics of the arguments about the Cañari language and its vocabulary relationships with Polynesian languages though. Recent proponents of Polynesian voyages to South America (who are ideologically quite removed from Heyerdahl at this point) don't propose that the Cañari language is descended from a Polynesian mother tongue, only that the Cañari word for sweet potato and a handful of other loan words suggest linguistic contact and ideological exchange.
Why is this significant? Because it indicates the contact was seemingly, perhaps surprisingly, made from South America to Polynesia, and not the other way around. It fits with a relatively small population of COlombian natives reaching some islands in Central Polynesia, such as the Marquesas Islands, around 1200 AD, about the time Polynesia was settled, and while contact was still maintained between the islands. Therefore, after the initial admixture, the descendents spread to other islands, so that the Native American DNA is present in many Polynesians.
Native American gene flow into Polynesia predating Easter Island settlement, in Nature, it can be read here:
APart from this study, the best evidence historically is of course, the sweet potato, which is a crop native to South America, but present in Polynesia before 1492. Even more decisive, as you say, the linguistic connection is present, as it is called a viarant of Kumara both in South America and Polynesia.