In general, be courteous to others. Debate/discuss/argue the merits of ideas, don't attack people. Personal insults, shill or troll accusations, hate speech, any suggestion or support of harm, violence, or death, and other rule violations can result in a permanent ban.
That may be so. But it is so depressing that the DOJ’s case became so much more difficult (maybe even a moot point) with the discovery that Biden had classified files in the closet and for bathroom reading or out in the garage or whatever, too. For fuck’s sake. That was the one criminal oversight and negligence that I thought would finally nail Trump’s ass to the wall. Now, it’s just so much less than what it could’ve been. They might (might) get Trump on obstruction, but even that looks sketchier and more distant now. Biden blew it.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !
He had such similar traits as Trump, the “I’m the smartest person I know” rhetoric (right up until he was faced with someone in the same line who genuinely was smarter and better, at which point he became a puppy dog with his tail between his legs), the spending money pointlessly to flaunt wealth (the “poor man’s idea of what a rich man is” idea - things like a tv set in every room, despite hardly being home to watch tv because he’d spend all day at the office). It really does become all consuming, this desperate need to constantly prove their own value, at the expense of everyone around them. (Oh was engaged, to a woman who had come from wealth and didn’t care to flaunt it. Their engagement had gone for years because they couldn’t agree on how to hold the wedding - she wanted something reasonably close and low key her friends and family could attend. He wanted to go to a tropical island. When I got married he actually said “what’s the point of a wedding that costs less than $10,000?, because as near as I could tell, the only reason he could see to have a wedding was to show off that you could spend hundreds of thousands on it.).
Normally, presidents who want something declassified direct subordinates overseeing the department or agency with primary responsibility for the information to review the matter with an eye to making more of it public. But on rare occasions, presidents declassify something directly.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
The $620 billion fund’s advisory panel was reportedly concerned that Kushner’s newly created firm, Affinity Partners, didn’t have much experience; that the firms operations were “unsatisfactory in all aspects”; and that Kushner posed a “public relations risk” because of his work in the Trump administration. The fund’s advisers discussed these issues during a meeting last June 30, days after which bin Salman overruled them and green-lit the payment.