Shortly after taking La Concorde word arrived of pirate pardons being offered. Hornigold, along with about two dozen other pirate captains, took the offer and surrendered. Teach decided he would not. He outfitted La Concorde and renamed it Queen Anne's Revenge, becoming the legendary pirate Blackbeard. Hornigold then became a pirate hunter, chasing down pirates in the Caribbean. He was never successful in capturing the big name pirates he sought but did capture several lesser known ones. He would die in a hurricane in 1719 hunting pirates in the Caribbean.
His protégé would bring another pirate hunter to fame in Nov 1718. Blackbeard continued his piracy in the Caribbean and moving up the Atlantic Coast of America, terrorizing South Carolina. As he moved north, his two main ships (QAR and Adventure, another prize ship) ran aground on a sandbar off the coast of North Carolina. Some believe this to be intentional, some don't. The crew of over 300 was disbanded and Teach took a pardon from NC Governor Charles Eden who was later investigated (along with his believed coconspirator) for ties to the pirate. This culminated with Teach returning to port only a short time after being pardoned with a second ship, minus its crew. He told Eden he found it empty and had simply salvaged it. Eden agreed and Teach kept his low key but still a pirate ways. Soon the colonists grew tired of the threat and the Lt Governor of Virginia, Alexander Spotswood, got involved. He comissioned Robert Maynard, a British naval officer, with tracking down and capturing Blackbeard. A land force was also assembled to invade N.C. and led by a North Carolina man - one of the men that would investigate Eden for his connections to piracy. Maynard would find Blackbeard at Ocracoke Island and a major fight would commence with heavy losses on both sides. At the end of the day, Maynard had won and sailed back to Virginia a hero, with Blackbeards head lashed to the ship itself.
The most famous moment of Robert Maynards career was sailing back victoriously into port after defeating Blackbeard. It could certainly be argued that the most popular or well known part of Alexander Spotswood's career was his involvement in the capture of Blackbeard despite being an early Virginia explorer (founding the Knights of the Golden Horseshoe that first crossed the Blue Ridge Mountains into the Shenandoah Valley along what is now VA Route 33 through Swift Run Gap), being the first to occupy the new Governors Palace at Williamsburg, being involved in the Albany Treaty, and even having a county in Virginia named for him (Spotsylvania).
Basque sailors and naval officers are a concept of their own. A lot of the greatest Spanish naval officers or sailors were Basque: Juan Sebastián Elcano (the man who completed the first circumnavigation of the World), three Oquendo admirals, Blas de Lezo, Machìn and Juan de Rentería, Machín de Munguía, Cosme Damián de Churruca, and a whole lot more.
Edit for a Fun fact!: My wife and I were married at the Golden Horseshoe Inn, an early 19th century Inn (now a special event venue) on the eastern side of Swift Run Gap along Route 33 (called Spotswood Trail there) bordering Shenandoah National Park.