. We do not allow personal advice, anecdotal stories, comments that serve only to offer emotional or moral support, or any other suggestions, comments, or remarks that do not give legal information or address the legal question presented. This subreddit exists solely to provide legal answers and guidance for people who come seeking help; this isn't a community engagement or general discussion subreddit.
4. You will have a quick house check to make sure you are able to provide for him. This may include recent pay stubs and will, most likely, include a criminal check. Don't worry if you got busted for weed a decade ago or something dumb, that wont hurt you here. They want the child somewhere safe where he is loved and safe. It is really fucking hard to find people willing to take kids in with the plague going about and keeping him in the same area and school will work in his favour. He will need his own space so make sure you have set up a room or at least a bed and dresser for him in your child's room. I don't recall if you said your child was a boy or girl, but they will need to either have their own room or share with another male child. Even if your child is a girl and they are best friends, no hanky panky will ever take place, they cannot share a room. Or at least make it appear he is staying in another room.
In the context of state law, a “dependent child” is one who: (1) has been abandoned; (2) is abused or neglected by a person legally responsible for the care of the child; (3) has no parent, guardian, or custodian capable of adequately caring for the child such that the child is in circumstances which constitute a danger of substantial damage to the child’s psychological or physical development; or (4) is receiving extended foster care services.
5. This is critical and will be the toughest part. The young man will have to be interviewed by cps and give a statement. I forgot this above but you will be asked to take him to the doctor or emergency room to be checked for physical injuries or harm. Your child may also be interviewed (this is pretty likely) as will you and your spouse. Do your best to reassure him that whatever he says is fine and there will be no judgement. That nothing he says will change your opinion of him and that you love him and all that.