While NY grew, Boston actually shrank for a little while. Sometime in the mid 1760s New York passed Boston in population at about 15,000, becoming second only to Philadelphia for size in our colonial cities (population is hard to equate exactly as Philadelphia census' shrunk in geography and NY included rural areas of Manhattan in theirs, but it's safe to say Philly was dominant until the end of the 18th century). Elites in New York attended balls in extravegant gowns but traveled dark muddy streets to get there. It had all the fine form of a worldly city but with rough edges. Philly had about 40,000 to New York's 28,000. By comparison London had 750,000 and Paris about half that and Vienna at about 200,000. New York had started street lights in the 1760s, but only a decade later Le Barbier of Seville would be playing in the City of Lights as there were many playhouses in Paris. NYC had seen their first play in 1732, but it had been a traveling troop from London that performed it. In the 1750s theatres and space in taverns became built and available. During the war, however, there is no record of theatre except those organized by British forces for their soldiers. The philosophical groups of Philly exceeded those in NYC and the free black schools that would start around 1790 there had been set up for 20 years in Philly already (along with an all girl school). Philadelphia was unequivocally the colonial powerhouse city in terms of society in colonial America. What fueled Boston to influence so much was the writers, publishers, and statesmen of the city which were established long before those in New York would find an audience in the merchant city. So no, in 1776 very few (if any, and certainly not someone like Eliza Schuyler) would call NYC in the top 5 of world cities in terms of "culture" or greatness and certainly not better than Vienna, Paris, or the mighty London (which the colonial elite tried to emulate the trends of).
As we can see, Americans would be proud of New York but as a capital of commerce, not culture, and certainly not on a world scale - it was far from "The Greatest" (and this speaks nothing of anywhere but Europe and America). By the 1800s that changed. George Washinon attend the theatre on occasion as President residing in NYC. The Park Theatre opened in 1798 along with other art devoted centers, the New York Manumission Society had been formed and gained passage of their manumission act in 1799, and the population climbed above 30,000 in the city - it's high society culture soon passed that found in Philadelphia. Within a few decades, it would grow about 10 times in size. In 1811 a grand design was created for the layout of the city. In 1820 those oil street lamps were replaced by gas ones. The art commitment of the city, and the rapidly increasing commerce, shipping, and banking industries, allowed even more growth, quickly sending NYC to the status of select few cities that today could be called "The Greatest City in the World".
For a better understanding of what made New York City explode in growth post revolution plus some camparisons to the other big two American cities, [this answer] ( by /u/lord_mayor_of_reddit covers it fantastically.
In 1815, Gov. DeWitt Clinton predicted New York City would become "the greatest commercial emporium in the world" once the Erie Canal was finished.