The second is because for several decades the nuclear industry, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and the Atomic Energy Commission and its successor organization had assured people that nuclear reactors were entirely safe, that the chance of a catastrophic accident was essentially zero, and that people who worried about such things were off their rocker. There were legitimate concerns about nuclear safety raised prior to Three Mile Island, by such groups like the Union of Concerned Scientists (which was not made up of NIMBYs or hippies, but people with PhDs in physics and related subjects). There were concerns also about the "regulatory capture" of the nuclear industry — that there was a revolving door between the regulators and the industry they were supposed to regulate. When the accident happened, it appeared to vindicate these fears in a major way, and served to discredit those sources of official authority that had for years downplayed the risks. (The film _The China Syndrome_, which by chance debuted less than two weeks before the accident, was reflective of these kinds of concerns.).
Edit: One more thing to add is that even though the 1970s were well down from the high water mark of "nuclear mania" of the 1950s there was still a considerable amount of wild-eyed enthusiasm about nuclear energy which lead to many questionably valuable and questionably safe projects floating around then. One particular example being the Liquid Metal Fast Breeder Reactor (LMFBR) program which had kicked off in 1970 with a very high priority. These would be expensive, potentially dangerous, and would be trivial to use for production of fissile material for nuclear weapons. Contrast that with the direction of nuclear reactor technology in the '90s and after with Gen III/III+ and Gen IV reactor designs which specifically optimized for better safety, more cost effectiveness, reduction of high level waste, and greater proliferation resistance. In between those two eras it's clear the nuclear industry in the US took a huge direction shift. A good chunk of that started early with the reaction to the Three Mile Island accident, which brought a great degree of criticism and skepticism (especially from the public at large and the popular media) to nuclear technology and industry in general.
Very good point about the NRC. The US industry and its regulator both made a concerted effort to clean up their act after TMI. It's unlikely cooperation would have been so forthcoming without the massive external pressure the accident generated.
Everything has trade offs. Do you want to get the absolute most out of your nuclear fuel? If so, a breeder reactor is your best bet, which carries the downside of creating plutonium to use as fuel. Do I want nations such as Iran or NK making reactors of that type? No. At the same time, for nations such as the US with limited Uranium supplies and a whole lot of spent fuel rods, such reactors would fill a useful niche.