While southern states and districts shut down most schools with mostly Black student populations and faculties, they didn't shut them all down. In many cases where schools merged (virtually always Black school into white school), the leaders made the decision to expand class size or add to white teachers' workload, eliminating the need for any new teachers on the faculty. Some districts which still expected women teachers to leave the classroom upon getting married or pregnant, loosened the rules such that Black teachers could be brought on while the white teacher was on leave and then let go once the white teacher returned. In other cases, Black teachers were brought on and welcomed as part of the faculty. This was most common in large school districts with schools in close proximity. (It's likely not a coincidence that places where that was the case typically had more Black principals and Black educators in leadership positions.).
School Diversity Advisory Group. (2019). Making the Grade: The Path to Real Integration and Equity for Nyc Public School Students. New York City Department of Education.
Generally speaking, Black teachers supported desegregation. The executive secretary of the Oklahoma Association of Negro Teachers wrote just before the ruling: "I know our teachers feel that if it is a question of losing our jobs or having segregated schools, we will take the job loss." However. At the same time, there were Black educator groups who were against desegregation and advocated for a "true" implementation of Plessy v. Ferguson. Their reasons were varied but for a number of educators, it was concern about what would happen to Black children in mostly white schools. The Mississippi Negro Teachers Association supported a plan designed by the state legislature meant to discourage desegregation but included an increase in funding to Black schools. They are a reminder that the fight for desegregation was as much about getting Black children access to the resources given white children as it was about addressing a moral failing in the nation's education system.
Meanwhile, in places where Black teachers were integrated with students into previously white-only schools, they were often given untenable choices. In one instance, a Black high school physics teacher, and championship winning football coach, from a Black high school was told he could be the assistant to the assistant coach of the football team and teach chemistry. Or he could resign. It should be noted that, on average, Black teachers had a higher degree of education that white teachers. In many cases, Black teachers had multiple degrees, especially in instances where they were denied positions in their chosen field. (I get into that a bit more , in a question about Black professionals in the 1960's.).
>Some districts refused to accept federal grant dollars now tied to desegregation efforts, shifted Black teachers to that salary line, and simply refused to pay them. Some of those teachers worked the rest of the year with no pay. Those teachers won their lawsuit.
Since you asked for resources that address this problem from a place that's not the white POV in American education, Gloria Ladson-Billings and Geneva Gay popularized terms like "culturally relevant pedagogy" (also called culturally "responsive" or "sustaining" depending on who/where you read) in the 1980s and 90s which is essentially a set of practices informed by and continuing the legacy of anticolonial tradition. A lot of scholars are reintroducing the idea that proper integration must be bottom-up and top-down (I'm careful with my wording here because black scholars and activists have never stopped putting forth this idea but it is gaining more traction recently) meaning that our primary goal must be decolonizing the American education system. That's a broad mission including things like evaluating the efficacy of "gifted" programs and tracking, reforming archaic and discriminatory disciplinary policies, designing curricula from diverse authors, etc. which can be done regardless of a school's racial/ethnic composition. It's less about the demographic make up of schools and more about changing the racist structures that exist systemically and are internalized individually at every level.
Finally, though race relations are usually seen through the black-white binary in the US we cannot forget indigenous people and how their presence shaped the function of US education and discourse around "integration" as a tool for assimilation. Ward Churchill (2004) wrote at lenh about late 19th and early 20th century American Indian boarding schools where tens of thousands of indigenous children were separated from their parents and forced to learn and speak English, adopt Christianity, cut their hair, avoid congregating, etc. being used as a tool of genocide to erase indigenous language, knowledge, practices, etc. If you follow US education you will see that are still being fought against today.