It would depend what sort of feathers. The standard variety (from chickens, geese or ducks) were used to stuff mattresses, bolsters and pillows. These were still pretty much luxury items at this point; a feather mattress cost about the same as a horse, and was considered an heirloom in some communities. If on the other hand your ancestor had stolen the feathers from some upmarket emporium, he or she might have been laying their hands on valuable decorative items such as ostrich feathers, then very much in fashion , or for funerary purposes.
Thank you! The charges were in connection to a friend who was charged with stealing four chickens (the friend was convicted and transported, ancestor was found innocent) so they would have just been run of the mill chicken feathers.
Yes, though not many. The one that comes to mind being Karl Otto Koch. Commandant (at one point or another) of: Sachsenhausen, Buchenwald, and Majdanek among a few other smaller ones early on. As well as the husband of the infamous Ilse Koch aka “The Witch/Bitch of Buchenwald”. First arrested for corruption in 1941 he was given a second chance by Himmler (a common theme) and put in charge of Majdanek where he pretty quickly fucked up again (80 Soviet POWs escaped). He was removed from command again and though the case for negligence was dropped he was ordered to the front however, before he left more corruption was uncovered and in August of 1943 him and his wife were arrested and put in a Gestapo prison. During his trial (which was prosecuted and tried internally by the SS Main Office for legal matters) more corruption came to light committed by those serving beneath Koch. Including Majdanek camp compound leader Hackmann who was convicted, sentenced to death, put in Dachau for 6 months, and then released to fight in the war. There were others but I’m bringing him up as an example of sort of the worst case scenario in most of these cases. Karl Otto Koch on the other hand was not so lucky he was eventually sentenced to death in December of 1944 and though the SS were hesitant to carry out the sentence he was finally executed in early April 1945. This is the exception rather than the rule though. While there were a couple of halfhearted probes by the SS meant to deal with the corruption endemic in the camps and elsewhere (especially in the East). Nothing much came of most of them. Partially because there were too many people high up who were profiting from the corruption and therefore did their best to limit the probes and partially cause fucking just about everyone was involved. Even in the cases (and there were a few) where SS men were singled out and charged for corruption the punishment tended to be light. Often ending in reassignment, demotion, or a brief period of detention. You also, might possibly be kicked out of the SS (rarely) EDIT: Reading back I don’t actually feel comfortable stating the frequency of people being kicked out of the SS as punishment.. Though Himmler and the SS leadership continued to threaten harsh punishment for those caught this was far more bark than bite.