I will point to u/Erft’s , which discusses how modern universities developed the Bachelor/Master/Doctor system, but their answer starts out with a good discussion of medieval universities. Essentially you would study the “liberal arts”. These were divided into the “Trivium” (grammar, logic, rhetoric) and the “Quadrivium” (arithmetic, geometry, music, astronomy). After mastering those you could also continue studying law and/or theology (and later, in a few universities, medicine - but not at Oxford).
It makes sense to get rid of it. Since you could easily have a group without writing living contemporaneously with a group that had writing. The writing group wouldn't be historic while the non-writing group would be prehistoric.
Back to Western Mexico, in the 1450's, Pátzcuaro is overthrown by the fellow Purepecha city of Tzintzuntzan, who rapidly expands to form the Purepecha/Tarascan empire, who would be the Aztec empire's only real competition and repel numerous invasions from them, preventing their expansion and conquest over the city-states and kingdoms further West such as Colmia and Jalisco; With the Aztec and Purepecha unable to make each other budge, the Aztec, as the Spanish arrive, are in the process of expanding to the east, and starting to make inroads at Maya towns, as well as trying to besiege and blockade Tlaxcala, a unified republic of 4 Nahua city-states in an adjacent valley from the Valley of Mexico (alongside Cholula, Huextozinco, and some other cities/towns) who had been able to escape conquest due to their defensible position, with other notable unconquered enclaves being the Mixtec kingdom of Tututepec, the Tlapenec kingdom of Yopitzinco, and the Otomi kingdom of Metztitlan.
You wouldn’t study practical skills like blacksmithing. For that you wouldn’t need a formal education at a university.
In the latter half of the classic period, you see the rise of El Tajin as a notable influential center among the cities around the Gulf Coast in what's now Central State of Veracruz (the cities/culture there now referred to as the "Classic Veracruz") and Cholula as a notable city in Central Mexico; Monte Alban begins to fall in esteem, with the Zapotec city of Mitla becoming a major city in Oaxaca in it's stead. Teotihuacan begins to decline as well, and in the Yucatan, the cities of Tikal and Calakmul become essentially two super-power city-states among the Maya, centralizing Maya politics around them. Eventually Tikal and it's allies are able to put down Calakmul, and shortly thereafter, you have the classical Maya collapse, where probably due to a combination of political instability following this massive war, climate issues, and other factors, many of the large powerful Maya urban centers in the Southern and Central Yucatan Penisula decline between 700 and 800 AD, with some other notable cities in Mesoamerica (some mentioned above) declining around this period as well, marking the end of the Classical period. Throughout the Late Classic and Early-Postclassic, West Mexico develops many different city-states with increasing influence from the rest of Mesoamerica.