I am an electrical engineer specializing in RF transmission and radio. The problem with bass tones may have been in the speakers of the receiving radio unit; it was certainly not in the transmission.
All of this means, in short, that transmitting the lower bass band of human speech is not so hard. Transmitting the upper band is more difficult, but usually unnecessary. The real challange with bass is in reproduction. Lower frequency sounds needs a larger speaker - lower frequency means longer wavelenh, and longer wavelenh means physically larger structures. The wavelenh of a sound wave is equal to the speed of sound divided by the frequency - so a 20 Hz sound needs a 16m speaker for full-wave reproduction, but a 3.3kHz sound needs a 10cm speaker. This relates to the huge speakers you see as bass drivers at a concert. Fortunately there are some tricks we can play to get good low tones out of smaller speakers, or your home stereo would be enormous. It also explains why you can always hear your neighbor's bass line just fine through the wall. A 4-inch thick wall can attenuate most of a short wave, but a big long bass wavefront does not even notice the obstacle.
I studied linguistics in undergrad and specialized in historical and sociolinguistics. The Transatlantic or Mid-Atlantic accent is called such because it sounds like it’s located in some geographic point between the US and the UK, having a blend of features from both dialects. However, it was used only amongst Americans (and some Canadians), and linguists generally agree that the Mid-Atlantic accent is not a native accent but an affected or cultivated one.
The Mid-Atlantic accent is so well-known because of its use in film and amongst Hollywood stars, however there are many examples of affected speech in other languages as well. In France, young educated people who aren't from Paris might try to emulate the metropolitan region's speech. A different example in English would be Cultivated Australian English, which similarly emulates British RP, and can be heard by well-known Australians like Cate Blanchett. Overall, a cultivated accent is when a larger group uses affected speech to the point when it becomes its own established accent or dialect that is still markedly different from its target dialect.