Private schools have had and still have a greater degree of latitude when it comes to providing appropriate educational services to children with disabilities. In the case we studied in the 1990s, the Salpointe Catholic High School in Tucson, Arizona, explained to the parents of their "profoundly deaf" son that it had no program for accommodating this disability, but it would not stand in the way of services that might be necessary in that regard, including the use of a sign language interpreter if the funding were provided either by the parents or the public school district in which they lived.
Big questions! There have been fewer constitutional questions than ordinary issues that emerge from statute law passed by a legislature, and they are less about deafness per se than about the condition of the student as disabled and needing resources to achieve success in learning. When deafness has been involved, whether in constitutional or statute-based law suits, then usual issue has been provision of a sign interpreter in the mainstream classroom. As far as 20th century developments in Deaf pedagogy, you may want to consult the answer below to the question from Serbia, to which I'll add a bit more detail here. Advances in medical sign, learning theory (especially about children learning language), and technology and the emergence of strong voices in behalf of Deaf identity and culture have all played a role in the recently evolving pedagogy. Increasingly a pragmatic synthesis using all the resources available has emerged that has worked somewhat to close the gap between manualism and oralism, though that conflict is by no means resolved. The ongoing development of cochlear implant technology obviously has a fundamental impact on the population of hearing impaired children of school age.
Hello! I'm an archivist with a history background, currently beginning to work with the topic of disability and the archives (from the point of view of a person who herself has an invisible disability). I'm curious to hear any thoughts you might have on the ways disability (and/or deafness specifically) is represented in archives, from the researcher's point of view.
Hi! Thank you for answering our questions. I'm not very familiar with deaf education and the laws around them, but I'm aware that religious schools have opposed things like desegregation. Did private religious schools in the United States resist new requirements to accommodate deaf students?