More like Russia being cut off like North Korea. For this to be a proper cold war, Russia would need to be a near peer adversary, which suggssting nowadays would rightly get you laughed out of a room.
Democratic? Lol. Yanukovich illegally changed our Constitution to give himself governmental power over parliament. Your propaganda takes are always so damn funny, you guys literally have no idea what are talking about. People overthrew “president” because that’s our constitutional right. We didn’t overthrew “government” because we still have parliament. Armed Forces' deputy chief of staff Yuri Dumansky chose people’s side and resigned opposing the involvement of the army in the conflict against civilians. Constitutional guidelines about impeachment were broken only because they require Constitutional Court and Yanukovich already illegally used this court to change the way government works.
It’s likely a blend. We are now a year into all the fucking right wing propaganda supporting Putin, so of course there’s gonna be a percentage of people who got sucked in by that and legitimately believe it. Even if they live in the west.
> The dissolution of the Soviet Union[a] was the process of internal disintegration within the Soviet Union (USSR) which resulted in the end of the country's and its federal government's existence as a sovereign state, thereby resulting in its constituent republics gaining full sovereignty on 26 December 1991. It brought an end to General Secretary (later also President) Mikhail Gorbachev's effort to reform the Soviet political and economic system in an attempt to stop a period of political stalemate and economic backslide. The Soviet Union had experienced internal stagnation and ethnic separatism. Although highly centralized until its final years, the country was made up of fifteen top-level republics that served as homelands for different ethnicities. By late 1991, amid a catastrophic political crisis, with several republics already departing the Union and the waning of centralized power, the leaders of three of its founding members declared that the Soviet Union no longer existed. Eight more republics joined their declaration shortly thereafter. Gorbachev resigned in December 1991 and what was left of the Soviet parliament voted to end itself.