Land of Tears: The Exploration and Exploitation of Equatorial Africa by Robert Harms (2019). This looks at the exploration and colonization of the Congo River area in the late 19th century, focusing on three individuals: Henry Stanley (who worked for the Belgians), Pierre de Brazza (with the French), and Tippu Tip (who was with the Sultan of Zanzibar). The first half covers all three men's exploits into the region, and their initial efforts to develop trade agreements with the locals for ivory, which was the driving force for all of them. It then shows the development of how the Belgians and French established their colonies, and concludes with the transformation of the trade into rubber and the exploitation that came with that. Notably Harms makes clear that while Tippu Tip was an African he was treated as an equal with the Europeans, and dominated eastern Congo, effectively ruling over it as his own fiefdom. It creates a powerful narrative, and demonstrates that there was no initial plan by the colonial powers to fully exploit the region, but instead that it happened organically, and that there were even attempts to stop that from occurring. It is a great companion to King Leopold's Ghost by Adam Hothschild, which looks specifically at the Belgian Congo and the devastation done there, and gives a fuller look to how the Congo was colonized from both the west and east (indeed, initial explorations came from the Indian Ocean via Zanzibar, not from the mouth of the Congo River itself).
. While the longer part of this book is indeed about German SW Africa, it then connects what happened there with later events (in Belgium and Armenia), claiming that the Germans invented in Africa a culture of “total war” which was eventually bound to slide into genocide.
Yep! Technically now Journal of Slavic (Soviet) Military Studies, as they underwent a slightly awkward rebranding to stay relevant when the USSR collapsed.
Oh okay. I'm not sure what to recommend in English. His diary has been translated into English, I'm not sure if you've read it or if that's exactly what you're looking for, but it's an interesting document.