"The United States remains in a heightened threat environment. Lone offenders and small groups motivated by a range of ideological beliefs and/or personal grievances continue to pose a persistent and lethal threat to the Homeland. Domestic actors and foreign terrorist organizations continue to maintain a visible presence online in attempts to motivate supporters to conduct attacks in the Homeland. Threat actors have recently mobilized to violence, citing factors such as reactions to current events and adherence to violent extremist ideologies. In the coming months, threat actors could exploit several upcoming events to justify or commit acts of violence, including certifications related to the midterm elections, the holiday season and associated large gatherings, the marking of two years since the breach of the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021, and potential sociopolitical developments connected to ideological beliefs or personal hostility. Targets of potential violence include public gatherings, faith-based institutions, the LGBTQI+ community, schools, racial and religious minorities, government facilities and personnel, U.S. critical infrastructure, the media, and perceived ideological opponents.".
I just wanted to remind any butt hurt fascists that there was an American Nazi movement (that often gets overlooked in High School American history) and it is very similar to some of the more extreme views of the modern right wing: hatred for ethnic minorities, hatred for lgbtq people, and hatred for any religious organization that does not conform to their worldview.
I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please if you have any questions or concerns.
To be fair, they have more in common with the American Nazi movement than the German Nazi movement in that they are threatening violence against people who are persecuted in their own country if they seek asylum in ours, whereas the German Nazis were literally invading other countries for the purposes of ethnic cleansing.
r/politics is currently accepting new moderator applications. If you want to help make this community a better place, consider !