What did they think of the capabilities of the armies? This varied over the duration of the war and with the political bias of the observer. It is probably fair to say that many never quite overcame an underlying professional disdain for the ‘amateur’ soldier. Early operations were dismissed as a bit of a joke, but by McClellan’s Peninsula Campaign of 1862 the huge expansion of the Union Army in particular and the possibility of war meant that it was being taken much more seriously. The general view of the British with the Army of the Potomac at that time was that the cavalry was worthless, the infantry tolerable, and the artillery fairly good. This was mainly attributed to lack of discipline and, in the case of the cavalry, lack of horsemanship. Those who managed to get into the Confederacy were rather more positive about the quality of the troops, particularly the cavalry although even JEB Stuart’s men were not thought to be cavalry in the European sense of the word, they were compared to the irregular units the British raised in India and elsewhere. However, accounts of the superiority of the Southern soldier do need to be treated with caution, as those who visited the South often had or developed a strong bias towards their hosts.
Thanks for taking the time to stop by! The American Civil War featured several medical advances (the Union Army's creation of an ambulance corps in 1862, the greater use of anesthesia for battlefield surgery, Howard's new treatment for lung wounds, the large scale charity of the United States Sanitary Commission, etc.).
As I understand, the Boers not only declared war but also immediately embarked on offensive operations to conquer Natal and the Cape, with significant stockpiles of arms, munitions and artillery: in short, began an offensive war on their own terms to fulfil Afrikaaner revanchist aims when they believed their opponents were weakest.
Thanks for your question. Press treatment of the war is not a subject that I have directly covered in my book or research, but I will try and make some observations on the nature of reporting military events of the war and what bias it may have reflected or introduced.