\- In this case, what is the place of continuity & the concept of China (or more accurately "Middle Country") as seen today? A kind of geographical region? Or a more abstract, or "philosophical" concept? I would at least understand all of those different states were historically ruled by Han/ ethnic Chinese because then there's the "common consciousness" that comes into play (just like the Greeks to illustrate, they were multiple successive states or "administrative entities" in Antiquity but all of those states were "aware" they were managed by the same people), but the problem is then what about the Mongols & the Manchus? Were they part of this too despite their non-Chineseness? (Unlike for example, the Romans or the Ottomans in the case of Greece) If not, why then they managed their states in a way similar to the Han? (I mean the Mongol Yuan state took the naming practices of the Han & seem to have different in its relation to the native population/traditions than the other descendants states of the Mongol Empire (like the Ilkhanate & its relation to Iranians that I already mentioned) which then seem that they kind of assimilated the concepts promoted by the Han. In a lesser extent (as the context were different for the two Jurchen's Jin states) I guess we could apply these things to the Jurchen/Manchus too (although you implied that the Qing didn't consider themselves Chinese indeed).
4. A state divides into a number of smaller pieces, which may or may not be interested in restoring the whole, with the individual pieces still generally retaining the institutions and infrastructure of the state they replaced. The division of the Carolingian empire after the death of Louis the Pious, for instance, created states that did not cease to be (dynastically or institutionally) Carolingian; the Three Kingdoms of Wei, Wu and Shu-Han retained many of the systems that had come before. While these smaller continuations retain the institutional structures of their predecessor, they are not the same state.
But that is not to say there were not continuities in social structure: people lived across dynasties; cities didn't just vanish and come back every time a new state arose. While politically, we can distinguish heavily between states, it does make sense to think of society in ways that are not bounded simply by discrete dynastic dates. But that isn't part of the scope of this question.