Kowner, Rotem. “When Economics, Strategy, and Racial Ideology Meet: Inter-Axis Connections in the Wartime Indian Ocean.” Journal of Global History 12, no. 2 (2017): 228–50. .
5) Japan would try to remain in control of resource rich colonial areas it had conquered, like China, Malaysia, Indonesia, and strategic places to defend them, like the Philipines, Singapore, New Guinea and the US pacific islands.
Quite accurate actually. Just four days after the outbreak of the Pacific War, representatives of the three Axis powers met in Berlin to discuss (rather curiously) the division of their respective zones of operation (rather than military or even economic cooperation, which was lower down on the order of business). On December 15th 1941, Japanese Ambassador to Germany Oshima presented German Foreign Minister von Ribbentrop with a proposed plan which placed the Indian Ocean as the nucleus of Inter-Axis zones of occupation and operation. In this draft proposal, Tokyo envisioned that the line of longitude of 70°E would be the boundary between the spheres of operation of the Axis powers. Japan was to control and operate in practically all of Asia (including India and most of Siberia), whilst Italy and Germany would have everything to the west of the line, including all of the Middle East and European Russia. The Oberkommando des Heeres (in charge of German military operations in the East) proposed another line, though not too far off of the longitude that the Japanese had proposed themselves. In the OKW counter-proposal, the Japanese would have all of Asia up until the borders of Afghanistan, and all of Siberia up until the Yenisei River, the Germans and Italians would have everything else to the west. Interestingly, the Germans also envisioned that the area between the Volga and the Yenisei would be a "neutral zone", where the free exchange of resources, materiel, and the expulsion of any unwanted peoples from both sides would take place. We have limited and at best unreliable sources to say that this division plan went any further than the drawing board, or that the racial policy was adjusted to include the expulsion of Untermensch beyond the Volga. We do know however, that Hitler responded positively to Oshima's plan, envisioning the advance of Wehrmacht troops as far as Iran and Iraq to threaten India in co-ordination with a Japanese advance from China. by Gerhard L. Weinberg in his book Visions of Victory: The Hopes of Eight WWII Leaders is a better illustration of the two division plans. Thus the map seen in MitHC is not too far off, except for the omission of Italy and the larger neutral zone in Central Asia.